DRN-2705594
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Ageas Insurance Ltd were wrong to decline her claim on her holiday 
home insurance. She also complains about delay and poor handling of her claim. 
Its clear that a number of different agents were involved in the administration of Mrs Gs 
insurance policy and claim, so for clarity, any references to Ageas include its agents
  
What happened
Mrs G owned a UK holiday home. She renewed her holiday home insurance with Ageas in 
June 2019  the policy covered both buildings and contents. 
On 19 August 2019 Mrs G visited the property with her son to show an estate agent around - 
she intended to put it up for sale. But on arrival they discovered a large amount of damage, 
thought to have been caused by a failed pipe or tank in the loft. They turned off the mains 
water supply and made a claim on her insurance policy. 
Ageas sent a loss adjuster to assess the damage. But on 3 September 2019 they told her 
that her claim had been denied. The reason given was that, because nobody had visited the 
property for over 250 days, Mrs G was in breach of the general claims conditions set out in 
the policy. They said claims are required to be reported within 30 days of the loss occurring - 
and that this meant Mrs G shouldve visited the property at least every 30 days. 
Mrs G sent a letter of complaint to Ageas on 6 September 2019. She sent this letter again on 
27 September 2019, and her son chased it up by email on 10 October 2019. Having 
received no response, Mrs G appointed a solicitor to pursue her complaint. On 17 December 
2019 Ageas wrote to Mrs G - again saying theyd declined her claim because nobody had 
visited the property for approximately 250 days. 
Our investigator looked in to things for Mrs G. His investigation revealed that Ageas had in 
fact declined the claim for the following reasons:
As the property had been unoccupied, the policy required Mrs G either to turn off the 
mains water supply between November and March, or to maintain the temperature to 
at least 15C. The insurers said Mrs G would need to provide utility bills showing her 
energy usage to satisfy them of this.
In any event the insurers deemed the property to be unfurnished, because their 
photos showed it didnt have enough furniture to be lived in normally. The policy 
didnt provide cover for escape of water in unfurnished properties. 
Our investigator didnt think Ageas had acted unfairly by declining the claim because there 
was no evidence that Mrs G had maintained the temperature as required whilst the property 
was unoccupied. But he felt this reasoning hadnt been clearly explained to Mrs G, and if 
Ageas had done this she may have been in a better position to accept or question the 
decision. The investigator thought Ageas should pay her £250 compensation to reflect the 
additional distress this had caused her.
Mrs G didnt accept this. She said the house was furnished  the furniture had simply been 
moved upstairs while new flooring was laid. She also provided evidence about the heating. 
Ageas also didnt agree with the investigators view - they said they accepted that thered 
been minor delays, but they didnt feel £250 was warranted.
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance that insurers such as 
Ageas must follow  these are set out in the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS). This includes a requirement to handle claims promptly and fairly, and not to 
unreasonably reject a claim. Ive considered the way Ageas handled Mrs Gs claim with this 
in mind. 
Ageas initially told Mrs G that her claim was declined because she hadnt notified them of 
the damage within 30 days of the damage occurring. The evidence shows that Ageas in fact 
declined the claim for other reasons, but I can see that these werent explained to Mrs G. I 
find this was unfair  Mrs G was entitled to a reasonable explanation as to the reasons her 
claim was declined. Ive carefully considered the impact this has had on her.
Ageas processed and declined Mrs Gs claim swiftly  this was communicated to her in early 
September 2019. But she didnt receive a full explanation of their reasoning until nine 
months later, when our investigator issued his view on the case. Having been given that 
fuller explanation, Mrs G provided further evidence to support her claim. Im satisfied that 
Mrs G wouldve provided this sooner if Ageas had made her aware that furniture and heating 
were relevant in this case. That leads me to consider whether, in light of all the evidence 
now available, it was fair and reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim. 
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect insurers to cover every eventuality  theyre entitled to 
set out what cover theyre prepared to offer. Theyre also entitled to expect policy holders to 
comply with conditions set out in the policy to reduce the risk  provided theyre fair and 
reasonable. Ive read the wording of Mrs Gs policy in detail.
 
The policy states that Ageas will not pay for loss or damage caused by an escape of water if 
it happens whilst the home is unfurnished. Unfurnished is defined as meaning the home 
does not have enough furniture to be lived in normally. Ive seen references to photos taken 
by the loss adjuster showing the property was unfurnished, but I havent seen these. The 
evidence indicates that the loss adjustor was unable to go upstairs because it was 
structurally unsafe, so I wouldnt expect her photos to confirm whether the furniture was 
temporarily stored there. For these reasons Im unable to say whether the property was 
unfurnished. 
The policy goes on to say that escape of water will only be covered when the home is 
unoccupied if certain conditions are met. In this case its not disputed that, at the time the 
damage occurred, the property was unoccupied and the water supply hadnt been turned off 
at the mains. So, for this escape of water to be covered by the policy, Ageas would need to 
be satisfied that a thermostatically controlled fixed heating system was used to maintain a 
minimum of 15C at all times. It isnt enough that heating in the property was operable.
Ive looked in detail at the evidence about the heating. Mrs G says shed asked for the 
heating to be set to come on twice a day as per a normal household, and that she believed 
the thermostat was set to maintain a temperature of not less than 15C. Ive seen written 
confirmation that the heating engineer visited in December 2018, that the boiler was working 
correctly and that it was set to come on twice a day. But I havent seen any evidence as to what temperature the heating was set to achieve, and for what periods of time. Mrs Gs 
solicitor says her gas bills show significant usage over and above her £15 per month direct 
debit. She suggests these bills show that £45.30 was due over and above that monthly sum 
in February 2019, and that an additional £22.84 was due in May 2019. However, Im not 
persuaded that Mrs Gs gas bills provide evidence that the heating was operational at the 
time the damage occurred - Ill explain why.
Its agreed that the property wasnt visited between December 2018 and August 2019, when 
the damage was discovered. So this is the period during which Ageas would require 
evidence that the internal temperature was maintained at no less than 15C. The statements 
Mrs G has provided show the following charges for the gas supply to the property:
Statement Date Statement Period Total Charges
26 February 2019 20 November 2018 - 23 February 2019 £26.55
29 May 2019 24 February 2019 - 20 May 2019 £22.84
14 January 2020 23 November 2019 - 3 January 2020 £568.22
The statements indicate that, between November 2018 and May 2019, Mrs G was charged 
less than 28 pence per day for the gas supply to the property.  Having researched the 
supplier and tariff shown on Mrs Gs statements, I believe that this represents standing 
charges. Any amount paid over and above these charges simply brought her account back 
into credit - it had previously been in debit. The evidence indicates that her supplier charged 
significantly more for the gas supply between November 2019 and January 2020, but this 
was after the water damage occurred at the property.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im unable to say that the outcome of Mrs Gs claim would 
have been different if Ageas had given her a fuller explanation of the reasons it was 
declined. Although I realise this is not the outcome Mrs G had hoped for, Im satisfied that 
Ageas were entitled to decline the claim due to insufficient evidence that the temperature of 
the property was maintained at a minimum of 15C whilst it was unoccupied.
I can appreciate just how distressing this incident must have been for Mrs G. I find that the 
amount of distress and inconvenience shes suffered has been made worse by Ageas 
failure to provide an adequate explanation as to why her claim was declined. 
Ageas accept there were minor delays in responding to Mrs Gs formal complaint. But Im 
not persuaded that their response to her formal complaint put things right, because it didnt 
provide a clearer explanation as to why her claim had been declined. 
I said that I was minded to direct Ageas Insurance Ltd to pay Mrs G £250 for the distress 
shes been caused. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs G responded, saying Id made assumptions about her gas bills that werent correct. She 
provided further extracts from her bills, showing actual gas meter readings provided in 
September 2018 and January 2020. She said that all bills in between these dates were 
based on estimated readings. Mrs G said this meant the final bill covered the gas usage for 
the entire winter of 2018 through to early 2020  and that this exceeded the typical 
household annual gas usage. She considers this to be definitive evidence that the house 
was being kept at or above 15 degrees  particularly when considering that gas wouldnt 
have been used for any other purpose. 
Mrs G expressed frustration that, if Ageas had explained the reasons for rejecting the claim 
promptly, this information couldve been provided much sooner and the claim settled within a matter of weeks. She seeks interest on the settlement she shouldve been paid in 
September 2019 and considerably more than £250 for the distress. 
Ageas agreed to pay £250 compensation to Mrs G  they didnt comment on the additional 
information shed provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mrs G for taking the time to provide further information. But having 
reconsidered all the evidence in detail, Im not persuaded that I should depart from my 
provisional decision in this case. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
Mrs G has now provided the detailed breakdown of two of her gas bills. These include 
records of meter readings used by the energy supplier, as well as whether they were actual 
or estimated readings. 
Statement Period Date of Meter 
ReadingMeter Reading Gas Use (kWh) Cost of Gas 
29/05/2018 20581 (estimated)
05/09/2018 20581 (actual)22 May 2018     
19 November 
2018
30/09/2018 20581 (estimated)0 (estimated) £0.00
23/11/2019 20581 (estimated) 23 November 
2019 - 3 January 
202003/01/2020 21956 (actual)15,233.07 (actual) £530.57
Mrs Gs bills show that, between 29 May 2018 and 23 November 2019, her supplier 
estimated that no gas was being used at the property. Ive seen no evidence as to the 
criteria the supplier used to estimate this, but Im aware that energy companies generally 
base these kinds of estimate on previous patterns of energy use, seasonal variations and 
other customer data. I dont find this supports Mrs Gs assertions about gas use at the 
property.
Statistics published by OFGEM suggest 12,000 kWh to be a typical domestic consumption 
value for medium use. The two actual meter readings at Mrs Gs property were recorded on 
5 September 2018 and 3 January 2020. During this 16-month period, 15,233.07 kWh of gas 
were used at the property. I calculate this rate of gas use to be equivalent to 11,424.60 kWh 
per year. Ive seen no evidence on which I can assess whether the rate of gas use was 
uniform throughout this period, or whether the heating was adjusted after the water damage 
to the property was discovered. The final meter reading, dated 3 January 2020, was taken 
almost five months later.
And so, on balance, Im not persuaded that Mrs Gs gas bills demonstrate that her property 
was being maintained at 15C at the time the damage occurred. This being so I dont need to 
reach a definitive conclusion on whether the property was furnished or not when the loss 
occurred.
I accept what Mrs G has said about this policy being intended for holiday homes, which by 
nature are left unattended for periods of time. But I dont consider it unfair or unreasonable 
for the insurer to exclude cover in respect of situations they deem to present an unacceptable level of risk  such as properties that are left unoccupied without adequate 
heating. 
For these reasons, although I realise that Mrs G will be disappointed with this decision, I 
dont find Ageas to have treated her unfairly by declining her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I uphold this complaint and direct Ageas Insurance Ltd 
to pay Mrs G £250 for the distress shes been caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman