DRN-3766913
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim she made on her 
Landlord Gas Central Heating (home emergency) insurance policy.
Aviva are the underwriters of this insurance policy. In my decision, any reference to Aviva 
includes the actions of its appointed agents  such as engineers arranging or carrying out 
visits or repairs on their behalf.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mrs B and Aviva. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mrs B had a home emergency policy with Aviva for a property she lets to tenants. She had a 
problem with the boiler and tried to raise a claim against her policy. A number of 
appointments were made. But due to various different reasons, the required repairs/remedial 
actions didnt happen when expected. Eventually the boiler was deemed beyond economic 
repair (BER).
Mrs B raised a complaint with Aviva as she was unhappy. Aviva offered Mrs B £350 
compensation for any inconvenience caused by how they handled things. Mrs B remained 
unhappy and referred her complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our 
investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that Aviva needed to do 
anything further. Mrs B requested a final decision  so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
What my decision wont address
For the reasons our Investigator has explained, my decision also wont make any findings on 
the previous boiler service as that is separate to the regulated contract of insurance that 
Mrs B made this claim under.
I also wont be making any awards for any distress or inconvenience experienced by Mrs Bs 
tenants in the property where this boiler was located. This is because Mrs B was the 
customer of Aviva here and is the eligible complainant. Our Service cant make awards to 
third parties who arent an eligible complainant. 
Did Aviva fairly consider this claim  inline with the policy terms?
Based on the evidence, Im satisfied that Aviva considered the evidence about the condition  
of the boiler which showed it was beyond economic repair. Under the relevant terms of the 
policy (as the boiler was more than 7 years old) Aviva would source and replace the boiler, 
but any installation costs would be at Mrs Bs expense. 
Ive noted that from the total costs, Aviva have contributed £1,199 (BER contribution and 
customer loyalty bonus). I find this to be fair and reasonable. Installation and associated 
costs  such as scaffolding being needed - are beyond the control of Aviva. Ive noted in her 
complaint form, Mrs B has referred to a longer guarantee being provided by an independent 
engineer instead of the two year guarantee offered by the Aviva quote. Its not within my 
remit to direct Aviva in this regard or comments on features such as the length of guarantees 
offered. Ultimately, Mrs B was able to have the work done for a lower cost  with a longer 
guarantee, through alternative means. 
How have Aviva treated Mrs B overall?
Theres no doubt that there were delays here that have contributed to the time taken overall. 
And Ive also noted that Mrs B had to be quite proactive in order to find out updates about 
what was happening with her claim. But Aviva have recognised that they couldve handled 
things better and I find their offer of £350 (in addition to the contribution detailed above) is 
fair, reasonable and proportionate - relative to the impact of their actions on Mrs B.
Mrs B has commented in detail about the impact of Avivas actions on her tenants. But as 
explained, the contract here was between Aviva and Mrs B. I wont be considering any 
impact on Mrs Bs tenants. 
Mrs B told us she decided to not pass on a rent increase to her tenants as a result of this 
experience. But that was her own decision to make and I dont find it to be a direct 
consequential loss that Aviva are responsible for or that it arose because of their actions.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman