DRN-4356406
The complaint
Miss D has complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance (UKI) 
renewed her motor policy when she had told it not to and also took some or part of the 
premium in payment. 
What happened
Miss D arranged her motor policy through UKI. The premium was paid by someone else. 
Miss D told UKI that she didnt want to renew her policy with it on 4 July 2022. It was due to 
expire on 5 July 2022. 
UKI admitted it made a mistake and renewed her policy and took some premium from the 
person who had originally paid Miss Ds motor premium for the year ending 5 July 2022. In 
January 2023 following Miss Ds complaint UKI confirmed it had renewed Miss Ds policy in 
error, so it provided a refund to the person it took the premium payment from. It said it 
refunded the amount it took which was £431.26. It also then paid Miss D £100 compensation 
for its error. This was ultimately wrongly sent by bank transfer to the person who had paid 
Miss Ds premium instead of Miss D direct given Miss D didnt receive the cheque UKI sent 
her. 
Miss D remained dissatisfied and brought her complaint to us. The investigator thought UKI 
had done enough to put things right. Miss D didnt agree so her complaint was passed to me 
to decide.
 
I issued a provisional decision on 5 September 2023, and I said the following: 
When a business such as UKI here, made a mistake like it acknowledged it did, our 
role in this service is to ensure it has done enough to put things right. However, I 
dont think UKI has done as much as it ought to have done. 
Clearly UKI made a mistake in ignoring Miss Ds clear instructions that she didnt 
want her motor policy to renew. UKI has acknowledged that and has refunded the 
premium amount it took back to the person who originally paid for her motor policy 
the year before. However, it didnt pay interest to that person, and it ought to have 
done so, at 8% simple interest from the date it mistakenly took the £431.26 in July 
2022 to the date it refunded it in January 2023. 
Clearly Miss D also brought this complaint given it no doubt caused problems 
between her and the person who originally paid her premium for 2021/2022. To an 
extent UKI acknowledged that by paying Miss D £100 compensation. However, Miss 
D said she never received the cheque it said it sent her. UKI then stopped the 
cheque and decided to pay the £100 to the account they held for the policy which is 
presumably the person who paid Miss Ds premium. 
Im afraid whilst that may compensate that person for the loss of her money from July 
to January from an interest perspective, it does nothing for the trouble and upset 
caused to Miss D by UKIs mistake in renewing her policy when she told them she 
wasnt renewing her policy with UKI. This clearly has caused Miss D further trouble 
and upset so I now consider UKI should contact Miss D and ascertain what payment 
method is appropriate and then pay her a total £175 compensation. Ive increased 
the compensation by another £75 for this extra trouble and upset caused to Miss D 
by UKI effectively compensating the person who paid Miss Ds premium instead. 
Which I consider is reasonable and fair in these circumstances here.
 
Obviously too, it now appears that the person who initially paid Miss Ds premium has 
now received the initial £100 compensation UKI was supposed to pay to Miss D. Its 
not appropriate for UKI to think that Miss D should organise that this other person 
should pay her this £100 as that would be unreasonable. Its most likely greater than 
the interest UKI should have paid to this person as I detailed above. If that is the 
case, then I dont consider UKI needs to pay interest additionally to this person. 
But it still needs to pay Miss D actual compensation and arrange with her the best 
method to get the compensation to her. 
Therefore, in conclusion UKI should calculate the interest at 8% simple interest on 
the £431.26 renewal premium, it wrongly took from the account of the person who 
had originally paid Miss Ds premium for the previous year. If the interest amount is 
less than the £100 compensation it has now wrongly paid to that account, then it 
needs to make no further payment to that person. In the unlikely event the interest 
calculation is more than the £100 it should pay the remainder to this person.  
 
UKI should also contact Miss D direct and arrange payment of £175 compensation 
for the trouble and upset its several mistakes caused her.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again Im upholding this complaint. 
On the basis neither party responded with anything further for me to consider, I see no 
reason to change the outcome of my intended decision on this matter.
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that uphold this complaint. 
 I now require U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance to do the following: 
Calculate the interest payable on the premium of £431.26 wrongly taken from the 
person paying Miss Ds motor policy at 8% simple from the date that UKI took the 
payment from the account to date it refunded it. If that is less that the extra payment 
of £100 made to that account, UKI doesnt need to do anything more as regards 
paying interest. 
If the interest is more than £100 then UKI must pay the remainder to that account.  If 
income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to this person for HMRC purposes.
Make contact with Miss D and ascertain how she wishes to receive her 
compensation and pay her £175 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to 
her by first wrongly renewing her policy and secondly paying the initial compensation 
to the person who paid her premium rather than to her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman