DRN-3566078
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B have complained about work carried out by British Gas Insurance Limited 
(British Gas) under a home emergency policy.
What happened
British Gas visited Mr B and Mrs Bs home three times to deal with a leak from their toilet. 
One of the engineers used a white sealant around the base of the toilet. Mr B and Mrs B 
asked British Gas to remove this because it had previously been a clear sealant and it had 
been badly applied. Another British Gas engineer visited and used a chemical to remove the 
white sealant and applied a clear sealant. 
Mr B and Mrs B complained to British Gas that the floor was now discoloured due to the 
chemical that had been applied. British Gas investigated and said the lighter colouring of 
part of the floor was because it was cleaner than the rest of the floor because of the 
chemical that had been used. It said that over time the lighter coloured floor would fade to be 
the same colour as the rest. However, it offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill because of 
the return visits by engineers and the inconvenience caused.
When Mr B and Mrs B complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said the chemical cleaner needed to be used to remove the sealant and 
resulted in that part of the floor being cleaner. The chemical cleaner needed to be used, so 
the cleaner/ lighter floor was the result of the repair works. She said British Gas didnt need 
to do anything further to the floor.
As Mr B and Mrs B didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive looked at the photos showing the work carried out by British Gas. One of the photos 
shows the floor with the toilet removed. There is a clear difference in colour between the 
floor that is normally visible compared to where the toilet pan came into contact with the 
floor. So, I think this shows, regardless of any works carried out by British Gas, that the floor 
had changed colour.
British Gas applied a white sealant, rather than using a clear sealant which had previously 
been there. So, at Mr B and Mrs Bs request British Gas removed this. The floor was then 
lighter where the chemical was applied to remove the sealant. British Gas has said the 
change in colour is because that part of the floor is now cleaner due to the chemical applied, 
but that it will fade over time. 
Ive thought about this carefully and, in my view, I havent seen anything that shows British 
Gas damaged the floor. I think its more likely than not that the reason for the floor being a 
different colour around the toilet is that it is now cleaner because of the chemical that was 
applied. Although I can see there is a difference in colour, I dont think a floor being cleaner 
is damage. I think its reasonable that British Gas said the floor would fade over time and 
paid a gesture of goodwill because of the multiple visits and the inconvenience caused to Mr 
B and Mrs B. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require British Gas to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman