DRN-2901600
The complaint
Mrs O complained to Black Horse Finance Limited when a caravan she acquired 
under a hire purchase agreement wasnt as expected. Mrs O also says the 
caravan wasnt of satisfactory quality from the outset of the agreement.
Mrs O has brought her complaint via a representative, but Ive referred to her 
throughout for simplicity.
  
What happened
Black Horse agreed credit for Mrs O on 15 March 2017 via a third party dealership in 
order to acquire a static caravan shed viewed at a sales event. The cash price of the 
caravan, as per the agreement, was £34,995 and Mrs O paid a deposit of £10,995. 
She borrowed the balance of £24,000 which, plus £16,156.80 interest and charges, 
came to £40,156.80. This was to be repaid by 120 monthly instalments of £334.64. 
So, the credit agreement was for a total of £51,151.80.
Mrs O says that the caravan needed repairs before she took possession of it but that it 
still wasnt of satisfactory quality. Shed reported faults on receipt of the caravan and at 
various times thereafter. She says the repairs werent carried out until early 2019.
Mrs O has come to the view that the caravan (which Ive called Model H) she 
viewed at the event and agreed to purchase was not the same model as the one 
delivered to her. She says its an earlier model (which Ive called Model A) which 
has been refurbished, and this explains the number of issues with it.
In addition, Mrs O has concerns about the validity of the credit agreement and the 
level of interest charged compared with what shed been told at the point of sale. 
Mrs O has also complained about how she was treated by all parties involved and 
says that the matter has made her ill with anxiety and depression.
Black Horse doesnt agree that the caravan was of unsatisfactory quality or was 
misrepresented to Mrs O. However, it offered to pay her £250 in recognition of the trouble 
and upset the issues with the caravan caused her so soon into her possession and the 
length of time it took to resolve these. Black Horse said whilst the issues do not affect the 
intended use of the goods, its use would have been at the very least, not enjoyable.
Mrs O didnt accept this offer and brought her complaint to this Service. I understand that 
Mrs O fully repaid her hire purchase agreement in September 2019 by paying an agreed 
settlement total of £41,482.72 (which included her deposit) as she was given a rebate of 
£9,669.08. She has since sold the caravan for less than half this amount. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Os complaint and didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. Mrs O asked for a formal decision on the matter and so the complaint came to me, 
as ombudsman, to review and resolve.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 June setting out why I thought Mrs Os complaint 
should be upheld. I wont set out the detail here as I have attached an extract from my 
provisional decision to this document. It sets out my reasoning on these points and forms 
part of this final decision. In summary, I provisionally concluded that:
1) The finance agreement hadnt been misrepresented to Mrs O;
2) The model delivered to Mrs O was the one shed seen at the show and was 
expecting with regard to its features and facilities, in other words was to the 
specification shed chosen;
3) Mrs O didnt have all the information she should have had before acquiring the 
caravan;
4) I didnt have enough information to say whether or not the caravan had been 
misrepresented to Mrs O;
5) The caravan wasnt fit for purpose or of a reasonable quality, and
6) Black Horse didnt treat Mrs O fairly when she found fault with the caravan.
Mrs O has accepted my provisional decision, Black Horse has not. In response, the lender 
provided comments from both the selling dealership and the caravan manufacturer 
regarding the production of the caravan. Black Horse said that this evidence shows that 
the caravan was a special unit designed specifically for [the dealership].
The dealership explained that a caravan model can be manufactured beyond the year in 
which it is included in the manufacturers range. A dealership can request this model to form 
the basis for a special model and in many cases, the manufacturer will continue to call the 
model by its original name through the production process and then utilise the special name 
at a later stage. The dealership also says that, as with cars, a holiday home might be built 
and stored for months or years before being sold, but it will be viewed and valued as 
denoted by its design year and not the year of its construction. 
 
The manufacturer stated  As requested I can categorically confirm the following: The [H 
Model] range was based on the [A Model]. The unit in question serial number ****524 was 
produced on the 6th April 2017 exclusively for [the dealership].
Black Horse didnt comment further on my provisional findings, though I invited it specifically 
to do so. This is now my final decision on the matter which will be legally binding on both 
parties should Mrs O accept it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As before, I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. I have carefully considered what Black Horse has said in its 
response to my provisional decision. Having done so, I am continuing to uphold Mrs Os 
complaint. I know this will be very disappointing for Black Horse and I am sorry that this 
isnt the outcome it wished for. 
As mentioned, Mrs O agreed with my provisional decison and hasnt provided any further 
comment. I remain of the view that the finance agreement wasnt misrepresented to her 
and that the model she acquired was the one shed chosen (points 1) and 2) above). 
As Id said in my provisional decision, Mrs O came to believe that the caravan she hired was 
a refurbished older model which had deteriorated since it was built, and this provided her 
with an explanation for why it wasnt of satisfactory quality. Black Horse explained that it is 
standard practice for dealerships to rebadge factory models as new models designed exclusively for them. I thought it wasnt likely it had been brought to Mrs Os attention that 
Model H was a refurbished or rebadged Model A prior to her entering into the hire purchase 
agreement (point 3 above). And I havent been told anything since which changes my mind 
on this point. 
However, I didnt think it automatically followed to conclude that the caravan had been 
misrepresented to Mrs O simply because she mightnt have been told everything about it. I 
said in my provisional decision that If the caravan Model H was a refurbished Model A from 
the build year in which Mrs O made her purchase, I cant see why she would not have gone 
ahead with it. But I think a reasonable person would not consider a model that wasnt current 
to be new. So if Model A wasnt from the same build year and this was made clear to Mrs 
O, then I dont think she would have considered it as a new caravan and may not have 
purchased it or may have done so but not at the same price.
I didnt make a provisional finding on whether or not the caravan had been mis-represented 
to Mrs O (point 4 above) because I didnt have enough information about the build history of 
the caravan to decide this and because I was upholding Mrs Os complaint for other reasons. 
I am not making a finding on this point now, but I am including Black Horses comments here 
for completeness. 
As mentioned, Black Horse has provided more explanation about the caravans construction 
via the selling dealership and the manufacturer. It says, via the dealership, that while Model 
A might not have been included in the manufacturers range for the build year 2017 it could 
still be ordered as part of a special build for a dealership, which is what happened here. The 
dealership confirmed that while Mrs Os claim is plausible  that the base model for the 
caravan she received could have been stored for months or years prior to it being sold or 
hired  this is not what happened to her unit. Black Horse confirmed again through the 
manufacturer that the base model (Model A) for Mrs Os caravan was constructed in 2017. 
I provisionally upheld Mrs Os complaint on the basis of points 5) and 6) as set out in the 
above list. In other words, I concluded that the caravan she acquired though her 
agreement with Black Horse wasnt fit for purpose and was not of a quality that could be 
reasonably expected in a new caravan, irrespective of whether or not it had been 
misrepresented to her. I found Mrs O had lost out financially and suffered an emotional 
and practical loss because of this and what happened during the agreement. Black Horse 
hasnt provided any comment or new information on these points and I am continuing to 
uphold Mrs Os compaint on this basis. 
Neither party commented on the redress set out in my provisional decision or provided 
any new information or figures for me to consider. So I am continuing with the redress I 
provisionally proposed.
Putting things right
This Services general approach to putting things right is to try to put the consumer, 
in this case Mrs O, back into the position she would have been in had the problems 
not happened.
Ive concluded that the caravan she acquired was not fit for purpose or of a 
standard a reasonable person would expect. So, it seems to me that Mrs O ended 
up paying for something she shouldnt have and, in the end, sold it as soon as she 
could. Its clearly not possible to completly unwind what has happened but Black 
Horse should pay compensation to Mrs O to reflect the financial loss she incurred 
because of what went wrong.Ive considered that Mrs O paid a large deposit for the caravan and interest and 
charges on her agreement with Black Horse. She also paid approximately £750 of 
interest on a bank loan she took out in order to pay off her agreement and be in a 
position to sell the caravan. Ive also considered that Mrs O recouped some of the 
money she spent (not more than half the amount she paid) when she sold the 
caravan and Ive accepted what shes said about the selling price. 
Mrs O says that she spent money that she shouldnt have because of the issues 
she found with the caravan for example, she says she purchased a microwave oven 
and entrance steps. I understand she also paid a delivery and siting charge for it. 
Mrs O hasnt provided any information about these costs and so I have not included 
them as part of this redress. I am aware that Mrs O would also have paid ongoing 
site charges but Im not of the view that these should form part of any redress as 
Mrs O would have needed to pay these if shed continued to hire or own a static 
caravan.
Altogether, having paid a total amount of just under £41,500 to Black Horse, I 
think Mrs O has lost out financially to an amount of approximately £23,250.
Black Horse has accepted that Mrs Os use of the caravan was impaired or less 
than it should have been. I dont know to what extent she was able to use the 
caravan as she intended during her two and a half years of hire, but I think its fair 
that Mrs O pays something for her use of it. In this case, I think that its fair for Black 
Horse to retain an amount of £150 a month to reflect Mrs Os use of the caravan for 
30 months, in other words £4,500. But Black Horse needs to refund everything else 
shes paid above this, capped at £23,250. 
As Ive explained in my provisional decision I think Black Horse should pay Mrs O 
an amount of £1,000 to reflect the non-financial loss this matter has caused her.
As far as Im aware Mrs O hasnt incurred any adverse information about this 
ageement on her credit file record and so I dont think there is anything to be put 
right in that regard.
In summary, Black Horse should:
Refund all payments Mrs O made under the agreement capped at £23,250; and
Retain an amount of £150 a month as a fair usage charge for 30 months 
amounting to £4,500;
Pay Mrs O an amount of £1,000 to reflect the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here and in my provisional decision (attached) I am upholding 
Mrs Os complaint against Black Horse Finance Limited and require it to put things right for 
her as above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2021.Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman
EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. These included, for 
example, the Consumer Credit Act 1974, its revisions in 2015 and the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Consumer Credit Handbook (CONC) which set our regulations and guidance 
for lenders such as Black Horse.
Let me start by saying that Im sorry to hear of Mrs Os health issues. I can see from 
the level of correspondence shes provided to this Service that she has been dealing 
with this matter for several years and I can understand how shes come to her 
perspective on the matter.
Mrs O chose the caravan at a show. The credit to buy the caravan was granted by Black 
Horse under a hire purchase agreement meaning Mrs O would own the caravan when the 
credit had been repaid. Black Horse was the owner until that point and Mrs O was, in 
essence, paying for the use of it. Any complaints about the quality of the caravan as given 
to Mrs O then fall to Black Horse.
In addition, as the owner of the caravan bought from the dealership, Black Horse was 
responsible for any negotiations the dealership had with Mrs O, including 
advertisements, before she entered into the hire-purchase agreement. An overarching 
requirement on firms is that they provide consumers with clear, fair and not misleading 
information in order for them to make informed decisions.
Finally as a credit provider, Black Horse needed to treat Mrs O fairly and have due regard 
to her interests in its dealings with her both before entering into the credit agreement and 
during its term.
Bearing all this in mind, the main questions I need to consider in coming to a decision on 
this complaint are as follows:
Was the agreement or the caravan mis-represented to Mrs O, in otherwords 
was she given false information about either which persuaded her to purchase 
the caravan on finance from Black Horse?
Was Mrs O given clear, fair and not misleading information about the caravan 
before she acquired it?
Was the caravan delivered to Mrs O the same type shed chosen to 
purchase at the show, in other words did it turn out as described?
Was the caravan fit for all the purposes for which caravans of that type are 
usually supplied?
Was it of satisfactory quality, in other words was it of a standard a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory for the caravan in 
question?
Overall, did Black Horse treat Mrs O fairly and with due regard to her interests?
The facts of this case are broadly agreed by both parties but there is some dispute 
about certain events. Ive set out a timeline of events below as I understand them from 
what both parties have said, the dealerships repair logs, and Black Horses customer 
notes and account statements.06/03/2017 Mrs O took possession of the caravan (sales receipt)
08/03/2017 Mrs O entered into the finance agreement with Black 
Horse. 
15/03/2017 Finance agreement updated with Mrs Os correct date of 
birth. 
05/04/2017 Gas inspection carried out on the caravan (Certificate 
date).
20-21/04 2017 The caravan is delivered and sited (Confirmed by park 
management).
28/04/2017 Black Horse customer contact record shows that Mrs O is 
extremely unhappy with the dealership and wants to log 
a complaint. She hasnt yet paid the deposit and it seems 
the dealership have threatened to take the caravan away 
if she doesnt do so.
14/04/2019 Mrs O is given a settlement quote. 
13/05/2019 Mrs O wishes to reject the caravan.
04/06/2019 Mrs O tells Black Horse that the problems shes had with 
the caravan means shes had to use the public showers 
and buy a microwave to cook, in addition to putting steps 
on the caravan.
01/07/2019 The Mobile Caravan Engineers Association (MCEA) 
says that, having spoken to Mrs O for an hour, it seems 
she wants the inspection to cover aspects of the caravan 
that have been an issue since the start, which changes 
the inspection card.
19-22/07/2019 MCEA say Mrs O cancelled the inspection as it wouldnt 
cover all the aspects she would like. They say theyre not 
prepared to re- instruct an inspector as the complaint 
seems to have escalated to legal levels.
25-30/07/2019 Mrs O says again she wants to reject the caravan or consider 
voluntary termination (VT). Shes told that if she doesnt 
continue with her repayments the lender will seek a Return of 
Goods order. Mrs O given a VT figure.
05/09/2019 Agreement fully repaid.
Was the finance agreement misrepresented to Mrs O?
Mrs O says that she was told that the interest rate on her finance agreement would be 
6.9% and not 11.9%. She says that the advertising for the show included reference to 
best ever finance deals. Im mindful that an applicant for credit might not be offered 
the representative interest rate as this would depend on individual factors. Mrs O 
hasnt been able to provide me with evidence that she was offered one rate and then 
given a credit agreement with another. So, altogether, I am not upholding this aspect of 
her complaint.
Was the caravan delivered to Mrs O the same type shed chosen to purchase at the 
show?
Mrs O says that she chose to buy a particular new model of caravan, which Ill call the 
H model. Shes provided me with a copy of a brochure in which this model was 
described as designed exclusively for [the dealership] by [the manufacturer]. She 
says a refurbished older model was delivered to her (which Ill call the A model) and 
she says that if shed wanted an A model she would have bought one.
Mrs O has provided photographs of stickers on the caravan and inspection certificates which refer to the caravan as an A model. These include the caravans gas safety 
certificate from the manufacturer dated 5 April 2017 and an undated habitation 
standards certificate from the National Caravan Council.
All references to the A model Ive seen show a serial number whose last seven digits 
are the same as that on the hire purchase agreement and the sales invoice, which 
refer to the H model which Mrs O chose. I dont know what specifically distinguished 
Model A from Model H but Mrs O hasnt complained that the caravan wasnt the same 
as the one she chose regarding its features or facilities. So I can accept that the model 
delivered to Mrs O was the one shed seen at the show and was expecting in regard to 
its features and facilities, in other words was to the specification shed chosen.
Was Mrs O given clear, fair and not misleading information about the caravan before 
she acquired it? Was the caravan misrepresented to Mrs O?
Black Horse explained (via the dealership) that it is normal for dealers/parks to utilise 
a generally produced holiday home and introduce different upholstery (and mayby 
additional specification, e.g. fridge) and to call it a unique model for their own retailing. 
This is very much the norm for the industry and perfectly above board. [The 
manufacturer] produced [Model A] in 2017 (and previous years) and this base model 
was used to create [Model H]. What Mrs O received was [Model H].
The only reason for [Model A] appearing on the certificates was that at the timing 
of those tests on the production line [the manufacturer] wouldnt have been aware 
that it was going to end up as being made as [Model H].
Considering that the product Mrs O received was exactly as she had seen when 
deciding on which caravan to buy, the only reason to query its identity has been 
because of the test certificates.
I dont agree that that the only reason to query the identity or model of the caravan 
was down to something Mrs O spotted in the paperwork. It seems to me that Mrs O 
suspected that the caravan delivered to her wasnt the same as the one she chose 
because it wasnt to the standard she expected from a new caravan. And when she 
realised it wasnt originally built as Model H but was instead a refurbished existing 
Model A, she came to believe that the the quality issues shed experienced stemmed 
from the deterioration of the caravan in the intervening period.
Black Horse may consider it normal practice to upgrade and rebadge caravans, but I 
dont know if Mrs O knew at the time that that was what she was purchasing. The 
sales brochure for Model H says it is designed exclusively by [the manufacturer] for 
[the dealership]. The brochure refers to manufacturer-designed rather than built, but 
I can understand why Mrs O thought she was buying a caravan of a particular 
specification built by the manufacturer, as opposed to a Model A caravan which had 
been upgraded / refurbished by the dealership to the manufacturers design 
specification.
Furthermore, the hire-purchase agreement describes the goods as new as does the 
sales invoice from the dealership. It seems to me that the caravan delivered was new 
in that it adhered to a design from the 2017 build year and, as far as Im aware, hadnt 
been previously used. However, it might not have been new in that it wasnt a current 
year model that had been rebranded but a model from earlier years.
I understand that the caravan build year runs from the 1 September to the end of August. Ive seen an email from the manfacturer which states the Model H Mrs O 
bought was produced on the 6 April 2017 as registered with the NCC. The 
manufacturer said that irrespective of the [Model A] being in our standard range for 
the 2017 season this is a 2017 model.
I have asked Black Horse to confirm whether or not Model A was being produced by 
the manufacturer in 2017 i.e. at some point after 1 September 2016. It has been 
unable to do so. I have seen copies of old brochures online which do not show Model 
A as part of the range from this manufacturer for this build year but do show it as part 
of the range for the previous one, 1 September 2015 to 31 August 2016. So I currently 
think its possible that the caravan Mrs O acquired could have been refurbished from 
one built as early as September 2015.
Mrs O had issues with both the boiler and the cooker in the caravan. She says that 
she contacted the manufacturers of both and was told that the warranties had expired. 
I dont know when Mrs O had these conversations however, but I can understand how 
this would seem to support her view that the caravan was older than the 2017 build 
year.
Clearly, I dont know exactly what was said to Mrs O at the point of sale of what 
information she was given, aside from the brochure mentioned above. Mrs O says 
she didnt know she was acquiring a refurbished caravan and, altogether, I think its 
more likely than not that this point wasnt brought to her attention at the time.
However, in order to find that the caravan was mis-represented to Mrs O, I need to 
find that not only was she given unfair or misleading information about it but that 
information persuaded her to make her purchase. Would Mrs O have continued to buy 
the caravan if shed known that it would be a refurbished model?
If the caravan Model H was a refurbished Model A from the build year in which Mrs O 
made her purchase, I cant see why she would not have gone ahead with it. But I 
think a reasonable person would not consider a model that wasnt current to be new. 
So if Model A wasnt from the same build year and this was made clear to Mrs O, then 
I dont think she would have considered it as a new caravan and may not have 
purchased it or may have done so but not at the same price.
In summary, I dont think Mrs O had all the information she should have when she was 
making her mind up about the caravan. However, I dont currently have enough 
information about when Model A was built to say that Mrs O would have made a 
different decision, had she had all the information she should have had.
Was the caravan fit for all the purposes for which caravans of that type are 
usually supplied? Was it of satisfactory quality, in other words to the standard a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory for the caravan in question?
As mentioned, Mrs O found fault with the caravan from the outset. The customer 
contact notes show that she was unhappy with the dealership and wanted to make a 
complaint on delivery.
Black Horse was obliged under The Consumer Rights Act 2015 to ensure that the 
quality of the caravan was satisfactory, in other words that it was of a standard a 
reasonable person would feel was satisfactory or as expected. Mrs O was paying for 
an new model that had been exclusively designed for the dealership. I think it would 
be reasonable to expect that it would be undamaged and ready for use on delivery. 
This wasnt the case, as can be seen in the caravan parks record of repairs (see Appendix A).
Black Horse has described these faults as purely a disagreeing with design / specification 
of features and cosmetic and minor snagging. However, I disagree. The faults include 
one of the cooker rings not working and issues with the ignition switch; low boiler pressure 
and malfunctioning extractor fans. These seem to me to be fairly fundamental to the 
normal usage of a caravan  to be able to cook, eat and use the sanitary facilities. I can 
see from the list of repairs that the fault with the cooker was clearly there from the outset. 
Likewise, obviously, the lack of drainage points. I think its more likely that not the 
problems with the extractor fans and the boiler were also there from the outset as its 
unlikely these were the result of wear and tear.
The customer notes record that Mrs O says she had to use the public showers and buy a 
microwave to compensate for these faults. Let me say at this point that Mrs O has been 
consistent in what she has said about her experiences. I think her account of the impact of 
the caravan quality is plausible and, combined with the above, I am currently of the view 
that the caravan wasnt fit for purpose and was not of a quality that could be reasonably 
expected in a new caravan.
Its clear to me that Mrs O has lost out financially because of this. As mentioned above,
Mrs O settled the agreement in September 2019 some 30 months later, and paid a total 
of just under £41,500 altogether. I understand she then sold the caravan for less than half 
this. Mrs O says she did so because her health was suffering and she no longer wanted 
the caravan given all of the problems shed experienced.
Mrs Os representative said that Mrs [O], in all good conscience, could not have sold the 
caravan privately. Mrs [O] refinanced through [a high street bank ] and later sold the 
caravan for £19,000 to the site owner who was aware of the problems with the caravan 
and would be best placed to deal with any future or continuing issues and was accepting 
of this possibility.
Did Black Horse treat Mrs O fairly?
I can see from the repairs log that the repairs to the caravan were mostly completed 
in January 2019, almost two years from its delivery and siting. This seems to me to 
be an exceptionally long time to wait for repairs.
Black Horse offered Mrs O £250 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset 
encountered as result of the issues which were present or developing at the time of sale. 
Black Horse said whilst the issues do not affect the intended use of the goods, its use 
would have been at the very least, not enjoyable.
I agree with Black Horse that this matter has had an emotional impact on Mrs O, 
however I think this impact has been substantial and so I dont think an amount of £250 
is fair compensation in this case.
Mrs Os explained that the reason she bought this caravan was to be able to have her 
family to stay there with her and she hasnt been able to do so because of the issues 
shes had with it. Shes explained that it impacted on her health, specifically that it caused 
her to suffer with anxiety and depression. And Ive borne in mind that she found fault with 
the caravan from the outset and so this matter was ongoing for several years until Mrs O 
took steps to end the agreement. Weve set out our approach to non-financial awards on 
our website and in line with this I think an amount of £1,000 would be a reasonable 
reflection of the considerable upset and inconvenience this matter has caused to Mrs O.What Black Horse should do to put things right
This Services general approach to putting things right is to try to put the consumer, 
in this case Mrs O, back into the position she would have been in had the problems 
not happened.
As Ive explained I dont have enough information to come to the view that Mrs O 
would not have entered into the agreement had she been told everything about 
the caravan, but I have provisionally concluded that the caravan she acquired was 
not fit for purpose or of a standard a reasonable person would expect.
So, it seems to me that Mrs O ended up paying for something she shouldnt have 
and, in the end, sold it as soon as she could. Its clearly not possible to completly 
unwind what has happened but Black Horse should pay compensation to Mrs O to 
reflect the financial loss she incurred because of what went wrong.
Ive considered that Mrs O paid a large deposit for the caravan and interest and 
charges on her agreement with Black Horse. She also paid approximately £750 of 
interest on a bank loan she took out in order to pay off her agreement and be in a 
position to sell the caravan. Ive also considered that Mrs O recouped some of the 
money she spent when she sold the caravan and Ive accepted what shes said 
about the selling price.
Mrs O says that she spent money that she shouldnt have because of the issues 
she found with the caravan for example, she says she purchased a microwave oven 
and entrance steps. I understand she also paid a delivery and siting charge for it. I 
dont currently have any information about these costs and so have not considered 
them as part of this redress proposal. I am aware that Mrs O would also have paid 
site charges but Im not of the view that these should form part of any redress as 
Mrs O would have needed to pay these if shed continued to hire or own a static 
caravan.
Altogether, having paid a total amount of just under £41,500 to Black Horse, I 
think Mrs O has lost out financially to an amount of approximately £23,250.
Black Horse has accepted that Mrs Os use of the caravan was impaired or less 
than it should have been. I dont know to what extent she was able to use the 
caravan as she intended during her two and a half years of hire, but I think its fair 
that Mrs O pays something for her use of it.
I currently think that its fair for Black Horse to retain an amount of £150 a month to 
reflect Mrs Os use of the caravan for 30 months, in other words £4,500. But Black 
Horse needs to refund everything else shes paid above this, capped at £23,250. 
As Ive explained above I think it also needs to pay Mrs O an amount of £1,000 to 
reflect the trouble and upset this matter has caused her.
As far as Im aware Mrs O hasnt incurred any adverse information on her credit 
file record because of this matter and so I dont think there is anything to be put 
right in that regard.
In summary, Black Horse should:
Refund all payments Mrs O made under the agreement capped at £23,250; and
Retain an amount of £150 a month as a fair usage charge for 30 months 
amounting to £4,500;Pay Mrs O an amount of £1,000 to reflect the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused her.
APPENDIX A: List of repair work taken from the caravan parks record:
25/04/2017
Chip in mirror backing timber RHS - wax repair.
Small defect/chip on the front edge of the toilet bowl - await 
complaint., Scratch inside shower enclosure low down LHS - polished 
out as best as Chips to rear edge of bedside table top - wax repair
Lumps under lino near sink - await complaint.
Wooden wallpanel LHS headboard scratched - polished 
as 
3 robe hooks missing in cupboard RHS fridge freezer 
Mould fault, rear RHS toilet lid - await complaint.
01/06/2017
Patio doors require 
attention Lino crinkled 
and lifting
Carpet is covered in black marks which are coming out of the 
pile Door handle sticks and catches
Sofa backs not filled enough?
03/07/2017
Various doors veneer is peeling
En suite basin is leaking down 
pedestal Rear left hand burner wont 
work
07/11/2018
Lino in kitchen is coming up, has been sorted before but she not happy 
with it Main door need adjusting
Outlook doors need adjusting - door retainers not 
working All windows not sealed correctly
Cooker hob one burner no gas coming 
through Cooker ignition not working
Boiler has low pressure all the 
time Drainage point not correct?
Skirting by patio door coming away 
Main bedroom door handle notchy 
Customer not happy with basin 
design
12/12/2018
Back rests on seating area sagging.
30/04/2019
Fly fumigation to be arranged as agreed by [X].
18/01/2019
Kitchen - lino in kitchen is coming up. Previous repair completed but customer 
not satisfied. Engineer attended 18/01/2019 and lifted lino in hallway. Engineer completed
Ensuite - extractor fan not working correctly. Engineer attended 18/01/2019 
and advised replacement fan required. New extractor fan ordered 18/01 and 
replaced 23/01/2019. Engineer completed
Bathroom - extractor fan not working correctly. Engineer attended 18/01/2019 
and advised replacement fan required. New extractor fan ordered 18/01 and 
replaced 23/01/2019. Engineer completed
External - main door requires adjustment. Engineer attended 18/01/2019 and readjusted. 
Engineer completed
External - outlook doors require adjusting - doors retainers not working. 
Engineer attended 18/01/2019 and readjusted. Engineer completed
Kitchen - cooker hob one burner has no gas coming through. Engineer attended 
18/01/2019 and completed but advised to check when gas is connected back to 
the caravan. Engineer completed
Kitchen - the cooker ignition is not working. Engineer attended 18/01/2019 and 
completed but advised to check when gas is connected back to the caravan. 
Engineer completed
Boiler Room - the boiler has low pressure all the time. Engineer attended 
18/01/2019 and topped up the boiler. Engineer completed
External - is the drainage point correct? Engineer attended 18/01/2019 and 
added two drain points. Engineer completed
Lounge - the skirting by the patio doors is coming away. Engineer 
attended 18/01/2019 and re-fixed. Engineer completed
Master Bedroom - the main door handle is notchy. Engineer attended 
18/01/2019 and completed
Ensuite - customer is not happy with the basin design. Standard to 
[manufacturer] specification in 2017 [H] model
Whole Caravan - all windows not sealed properly. Engineer assessed 18/01/2019 
and advised standard to manufacturer specification
-END-
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman