DRN-4406548
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G are unhappy with the decision made by Aviva Insurance Limited following a 
claim made under their travel insurance policy.  
Mr G and Mrs G are both parties to this complaint. Mr G has primarily dealt with this service. 
For ease of reference I have referred to Mr G throughout this final decision. 
What happened
In August 2022 Mr G purchased a travel insurance policy. The policy terms explained:
Missed transport
Well pay for alternative travel and accommodation costs to enable the insured 
person to reach their destination if their pre-booked transport is missed because of 
an unexpected transport delay, such as the vehicle theyre travelling in breaking 
down, or public transport being delayed or cancelled.
(With a limit per person, per trip of £1,000, and an excess of £50 per person, per trip)
Travel disruption
Well cover unexpected additional travel and accommodation costs to allow the 
insured person to continue their trip or to get home at the end of their trip, if their pre-
paid travel plans are disrupted for the following reasons:
1. the insured person is unable to reach their departure point or their pre-arranged 
accommodation due to a natural disaster, severe weather, fire, or explosion
2. a natural disaster, severe weather, fire, explosion or an outbreak of food 
poisoning means the insured person is unable to use their pre-booked 
accommodation
3. the insured persons travel or accommodation provider becomes insolvent
4. the insured persons pre-booked travel arrangements are cancelled or delayed 
for more than 12 hours from the time shown on their ticket or diverted after 
departure
5. the insured person is denied boarding because there are too many passengers 
and no alternative is available for more than 12 hours 
(With a limit per person, per trip of £7,500, and an excess of £50 per person, per 
trip)
In December 2022 Mr G was getting ready to go to the airport to board his pre-booked flight. 
Mr G has explained The driver loaded our bags into the car while we locked our house and 
managed to lock and alarm the car with his car keys left inside the car. All our bags were 
locked in the car together with our passports. Mr G tried to make it on time to catch his flight, 
but in trying to sort out the issue with the trapped key, Mr G missed his flight. 
Mr G tried to make a claim under his travel insurance policy. Aviva initially rejected Mr Gs 
claim. But following a review of the claim, decided to cover Mr Gs claim under the Missed 
transport section of his policy. 
The investigator found that the offer made by Aviva was reasonable, and didnt ask Aviva to 
do anything more in settlement of the complaint. Mr G rejected these findings, saying 
(amongst other things) the event that caused us to miss our flight and then incur additional 
cost to continue our prebooked holiday was as unforeseen and as unlikely as all of the 
reasons quoted in the policy. Mr G asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided.
Mr G feels strongly that Aviva have not dealt with his claim properly. I understand it has been 
a difficult time for Mr G. But having reviewed the evidence I dont think Aviva need to do 
anything more in settlement of this complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a 
disappointment to Mr G but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point its because I dont believe it has affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
When we investigate a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. So Ive 
considered the evidence to determine whether Aviva have acted fairly and reasonably in 
reaching their decision on Mr Gs claim.    
Mr G says the offer made by Aviva to pay his claim under the Missed transport section of 
his policy doesnt cover the full cost of the additional flights he had to book, and the 
proportion of his accommodation that went unused as a result of missing his original flight 
booking. Mr G feels strongly that Aviva should consider, and pay his claim, under the Travel 
disruption terms of his policy.
Ive considered the policy terms, and Avivas application of these terms when assessing Mr 
Gs claim. In doing so I think Avivas decision not to apply the Travel disruption terms is fair, 
and reasonable. I say this because its clear from review of these terms that they would only 
provide cover under limited circumstances.
Its not disputed that what happened to Mr G was unfortunate, and caused him a lot of upset 
and inconvenience. As a result of missing his original flight, Mr G has incurred substantial 
additional costs. But we can only ask Aviva to pay for a claim thats reasonably covered by 
the policy terms. Having reviewed the policy terms for Mr Gs policy, Im satisfied that the 
circumstances of Mr Gs missed flight are not covered by the policy terms for Travel 
disruption. What happened to Mr G did cause his travel plans to be disrupted. But the 
circumstances of what happened are not an insured event thats covered by Mr Gs policy.  
I appreciate Mr Gs disappointment with this outcome. This situation has clearly left Mr G 
feeling stressed, upset, and financially out of pocket. But I cant ask Aviva to pay for the claim, given the evidence thats been provided, and the policy terms Ive seen. I havent 
seen any evidence to persuade me that Avivas actions have been wrong, or unfair. So I 
wont be asking Aviva to do anything further in response to this complaint.  
 
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited have already made an offer to pay for Mr Gs and Mrs Gs claim in 
line with the terms and conditions for Missed transport. I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman