DRN-3963337
The complaint
Mr O complained about Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in Liechtenstein 
AGs (Helvetia) settlement offer for his gadget insurance claim and about its service.
What happened
Mr O had insurance for his tablet. Helvetia was the insurer of the policy. Part of this 
complaint concerns the actions of the agent who is the administrator and claims handler of 
the policy. As Helvetia has accepted its accountable for the actions of the agent in my 
decision any reference to Helvetia includes the actions of the agent.
Mr O claimed on the policy for his broken tablet. Helvetia accepted the claim but said the 
tablet couldnt be repaired. Helvetia didnt have a replacement tablet of the same make 
model and size. It offered a tablet of the same make but a smaller size which Mr O rejected 
as too small. Helvetia then offered Mr O a tablet of a different make which he rejected as he 
said it was smaller and not up to the standard of the make of his broken tablet.
Mr O complained to Helvetia about the replacement tablets it offered and said when he 
spoke to its representatives they were argumentative and rude.
Helvetia accepted the service Mr O received from its representatives fell short of the 
standard it expected and apologised. But it said it had offered Mr O a suitable replacement 
for his original tablet under the terms of the policy.
Mr O complained to us. In summary he said:
Helvetias apology was unacceptable unless the three representatives apologised to 
him in writing personally. He said hed been discriminated against due to his ethnic 
background as they were so disrespectful to him.
The replacement tablets Helvetia offered werent equivalent to his broken original 
tablet.
Helvetia should offer him the tablet of the same make but newer model which was on 
its website which he said was an equivalent as it had the same screen size and was 
the same price as his original tablet. If not Helvetia should repair his original tablet or 
return it unrepaired and refund his premiums.
He wanted compensation for his distress and inconvenience Helvetia had caused.
Our investigator said the second replacement tablet Helvetia offered appeared to be very 
similar to Mr Os original tablet but Helvetia should have offered Mr O the cash equivalent of 
his original tablet, as set out in the policy terms. He listened to the calls between Mr O and 
Helvetias representatives and said there was no evidence that Helvetia had discriminated 
against Mr O and its apology was enough.
Helvetia didnt respond. Mr O detailed why he didnt agree that the second replacement 
tablet offered was equivalent to his original tablet. He wants an ombudsmans decision and 
said hed now settle his complaint for the cash equivalent of the cost of his original tablet so 
he could buy a new tablet of the same make. He also raised that Helvetia had taken his 
broken tablet with his data on it and he wants that tablet returned.
Before I made a decision I asked Helvetia for evidence that the replacements it offered to 
Mr O were of equivalent specification to his original tablet and whether it still had his broken 
tablet to return to him. Ill refer to its responses in my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr O made his complaint to us he wanted us to consider Helvetias apology about its 
representatives service, he said hed been discriminated against and he wanted some 
compensation. In Mr Os recent communication hes said hed now settle for the cash 
equivalent of the cost of his original tablet. For the avoidance of doubt I think Helvetias 
apology was sufficient and I havent seen any evidence that Mr O was discriminated against 
due to his ethnic background. I dont think Helvetia needs to pay any compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience Mr O had because of Helvetias poor service.
The outstanding issue for me to decide is whether Helvetia made a fair offer to settle Mr Os 
claim and I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
The policy says under the heading How we will settle claims:
REPLACEMENT: Where the administrator is not able to resolve the issue through 
technical support or complete a successful repair, the administrator will replace your 
damaged product with one which is the same make and model as your product. If the 
administrator cannot do this you will be given a choice of make and model with an 
equivalent specification
ALTERNATIVE SETTLEMENT: If the administrator is not able to repair or replace the 
damaged product satisfactorily the administrator will contact you to arrange an 
alternative settlement. The value of the alternative settlement will be limited to the 
amount you paid for the product.
Helvetia wasnt able to replace Mr Os tablet with one of the same make and model as his 
original. The policy terms say in that case Mr O will be given a choice of make and model 
with an equivalent specification. 
Given the policy terms it wouldnt be reasonable for me to say Helvetia should give Mr O a 
tablet of the same make and newer model as that would be an upgrade from his original.
I asked Helvetia to provide evidence that the replacement tablets offered to Mr O were of 
equivalent specification to his broken tablet. It said the first replacement offered was a 
smaller model of the same make and although Mr O had initially said he didnt mind about 
the size as long as it was that make when he got the tablet he found it too small. So I think  
Helvetia accepts the first replacement offer wasnt of an equivalent specification.
Helvetia didnt give any evidence as to why it thought the second replacement it offered was 
an equivalent specification. But Helvetia did say Mr O was dissatisfied with that 
replacement offer. Even if my own research showed that the second replacement offered 
was an equivalent specification, given the policy terms I think the key issue is that Mr O 
wasnt satisfied with the suggested replacement.
The policy terms say if Helvetia isnt able to repair or replace the damaged product 
satisfactorily the administrator will contact you to arrange an alternative settlement.Helvetia couldnt replace the damaged tablet and its clear that Mr O wasnt satisfied at the 
suggested replacements so under the policy terms I think Helvetia should have offered an 
alternative settlement. The policy term goes on to say the alternative settlement will be 
limited to the amount Mr O paid for his tablet.  
So I think under the policy terms, and on a fair and reasonable basis, Helvetia should pay 
Mr O what he paid for his original tablet. Interest should be paid on that amount, as detailed 
below, to reflect the time Mr O has been without that cash settlement.
Mr Os recently raised that Helvetia kept his broken tablet with his data on it. Helvetia has 
told us its now disposed of that tablet. The policy says:
If the administrator provides you with a replacement or an alternative settlement, we 
reserve the right to take sole ownership of the defective product. 
Although Helvetia is only now going to provide Mr O will an alternative settlement it had 
offered to provide a replacement, although not one he was satisfied with, so I think it acted 
reasonably in disposing of the broken tablet.
Mr O says his data was on the tablet. If he has a concern about that matter he will need to 
first raise a complaint with Helvetia and if the parties cant agree he can ultimately make a 
separate complaint to us on that matter.
Putting things right
Helvetia should pay Mr O what he paid for his original tablet and interest should be paid on 
that amount as detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in 
Liechtenstein AG to settle the claim by paying Mr O a cash settlement of the amount he paid 
for his original tablet plus interest* at 8% simple a year from the date of the claim to the date 
of settlement.
*If Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in Liechtenstein AG considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell 
Mr O how much its taken off. It should also give Mr O a certificate showing this if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman