DRN-3280489
The complaint
Miss W complains that a car she took from Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc developed faults. This 
caused her inconvenience and, whilst she was provided with alternative vehicles, they were 
of a lower standard than the car for which she was paying.   
What happened
In June 2020 Miss W took a new car from Hitachi Capital under a four-year regulated hire 
agreement. She was to make a minimum of 48 monthly payments of a little under £400. 
In May 2021 she reported problems with the car. There were issues with the lane assist and 
the diesel particulate filter (or DPF). The dealership could find no fault with the lane assist, 
but turned that function off for Miss W. It said that the issue with the DPF was caused by the 
fact that Miss W had not been driving the car in a way that would clear the filter in normal 
use. The dealership was able to resolve that issue, but shortly afterwards an engine warning 
light was displayed. A replacement sensor was needed, but had to be ordered from the 
manufacturer. In the meantime, Miss W was provided with a courtesy car. 
Miss W complained to Hitachi Capital, but it sad that repairs had been carried out under 
warranty. As far as replacement cars were concerned, it said that it was under no obligation 
to provide alternative transport and, if it did so, there was no guarantee that a like for like car 
would be available. 
Miss W complained to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He understood that Miss W had been without her car for around a week. He 
recommended that Hitachi Capital pay her £75 in recognition of the inconvenience to which 
she had been put. Miss W replied to say that she had in fact been without her own car for 
some five to six weeks in May and June 2021. She had been provided with two cars in that 
time, but they were not of the same standard as the car she had hired. She provided 
evidence to support what she had said. 
The investigator therefore reconsidered his view of the matter. Having done so, he thought 
that his initial recommendation of £75 was too low and recommended an increased payment 
of £150. Hitachi Capital did not respond but Miss W said she thought that was not enough 
and asked that an ombudsman review the case.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, its important to note that the regulated credit agreement here was a hire 
agreement. That is, Miss W agreed to take the car for a minimum of 48 months in return for 
a monthly payment. In return, she got to use the car (subject to a maximum mileage 
allowance), but would not at any point take ownership of the car. That contrasts with, for 
example, a hire purchase or conditional sale agreement. Miss W was paying to use the car, 
not to use it and then acquire ownership of it. That was reflected in the monthly cost. 
The car was a luxury brand. The replacement cars Miss W had in May and June 2021 were 
not in the same category, although I have no reason to think that they were not perfectly 
serviceable vehicles. It would not be right therefore to approach this case on the basis that 
Miss W received nothing for her payments in that time, but I do believe that she should 
receive something by way of compensation for having to drive a less luxurious and 
prestigious model for a few weeks. 
The figure of £150 suggested by the investigator represents a reduction of some 25% on the 
monthly hire payments Miss W agreed. Since she did have the use of a car in that time, I 
think it is a fair sum in the circumstances. 
I note that Miss W has said that she has begun to experience further problems with the car. 
Since they did not form part of the complaint referred to this service, I have not commented 
on them. It may be that we can consider those issues separately if Miss W is unable to 
resolve them with Hitachi Capital and the dealership.  
Putting things right
Hitachi Capital has not said whether it agrees to the investigators recommendation, but it 
has not raised any objection either. I will therefore make a formal award, so that Miss W can 
enforce it, should that be necessary.  
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Miss Ws complaint in full, Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc should 
pay her £150.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman