DRN-2254163
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Usay Business Limited because it mis-sold him a private medical 
policy. 
What happened
Mr B approached Usay for a private medical insurance policy. This was an advised sale. 
Mr B said that Usay mis-sold him the policy in 2018 because at his next renewal, in October 
2019, the price had significantly increased. Mr B said he couldnt afford the renewal price 
and so had to take out another policy with a different provider. He would like a full refund of 
the premiums paid. 
Usay said it could not have known the cost of the policy would significantly increase the 
following year. It said Mr B made a claim shortly after the policy started and that this was the 
likely cause of the increase when it came to renewal. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He agreed with Usay and said it gave an 
indication the premiums could increase and that this was dependant on several factors. 
Ultimately, he didnt find any evidence to suggest the policy was mis-sold.
 
Mr B disagreed. He said Usay told him the premiums would only increase on a nominal 
scale of around 5-10% and that at renewal, the insurer quoted him an increase of around 
50% of the original policy cost. Mr B didnt accept that the claim he made could impact the 
price as significantly as it did. And so, its for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Shortly after Mr B took the policy out, he claimed for costs pertaining to an MRI scan and 
cover was provided by the insurer. However, when it came to renewing the policy, the 
insurer re-evaluated Mr Bs risk profile and this likely contributed to the increased costs. In 
other words, Mr B posed a higher-risk to insure because hed made a claim. And so, its 
unsurprising the insurer raised the price of the policy because Mr B received diagnostic 
treatment. 
Im not considering the insurers actions here as this complaint is about the sale of the policy, 
but I thought it might be helpful to give a general explanation about why the cost of insuring 
Mr B had increased. 
Ive considered Mr Bs comments about an MRI scan being a relatively minor treatment. He 
suggested the treatment isnt consistent with such a large premium increase, but for the 
reasons Ive just explained, its not something I can comment on as part of this complaint 
because I must consider Usays role as a broker. 
Mr B, in summary, said that Usay should have told him that the renewal price would, or 
could, have increased significantly  but I disagree. Usay explained the cost of insurance 
could be affected by several factors, including the increased cost of treatment, his age and 
whether he were to make a claim. I think the sales literature clearly explained this. 
During the conversation, Usay also told Mr B that the price of the policy would reduce were 
he not to make a claim. This was referred to as a no claims discount. And so, because a 
claim was made and cover was provided, the renewal price increased, and Mr B lost his no 
claims discount. 
At the time of sale, Usay was unaware that Mr B was going to make a claim a few months 
after the policy inception and so I also disagree with Mr Bs comments about that. I dont 
think it reasonable to suggest Usay should have gone into any specific detail around the 
policy renewal price for the same reasons. It would not have been possible for it to predict 
the future risk Mr B would have posed a year later.   
Usay explained that, in its experience, the cost of policies can increase at around 5-10% 
each year. However, I think this was simply a general observation. I agree that perhaps it 
may have caused Mr B some confusion. But I think Usay was trying to be helpful by giving a 
general steer on what to expect had there been no change in his circumstances at his next 
renewal. 
Its because of this that I disagree with Mr B in that he should receive a refund for the policy 
he bought in 2018 because I dont think Usay did anything wrong. I should also highlight that 
Mr B had the benefit of cover for the MRI scan and so it would be unfair to suggest that Usay 
reimburse him the cost of the policy. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that Mr B had to 
renew his policy with the insurer and from my understanding, he found cover elsewhere and 
so, theres effectively no loss as a consequence.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman