DRN-2392286
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled his claim for water damage at his 
flat. Hes also unhappy with the cash settlement offered. 
When I refer to AXA, Im also referring to any of their appointed agents or representatives.
What happened
Mr T is the owner of a flat in a development, which he rented out to two tenants. At the end 
of December 2018 there was an escape of water from the flat directly above, which caused 
damage to the kitchen of Mr Ts flat. 
Mr T notified the managing agents of the development, who arranged for the leak to be 
repaired. It was a couple of weeks until AXA were notified of the claim by the managing 
agent, who also sent several photographs of the damage. AXA asked the managing agents 
to supply two quotes for the damage.
Mr T was unhappy with the managing agents handling of the claim and decided to deal with 
it himself at the beginning of February 2019. He called AXA to discuss the claim, but a 
second claim was set up in error at this time. The original claim had been set up using a 
different postcode and didnt show when Mr T gave the correct information. 
AXA were still unaware of the damage at this point, as the original request for quotes hadnt 
been dealt with. So, they asked Mr T to obtain the quotes and they also appointed an expert 
to take the claim forward. The expert needed to visit Mr Ts flat to assess the damage but 
took a bit of time to contact the tenants to make the appointment. The appointment was 
arranged for early March 2019.
In the meantime, Mr T had provided a quote for some emergency repairs to the flat. The 
plumber that repaired the leak had left a hole in the kitchen of Mr Ts flat, as well as other 
issues that needed to be rectified. AXA said that the quote would be reviewed by their expert 
when they visited the flat. 
During the experts visit in March, damage to the hallway was also pointed out. The tenants 
explained that this had happened a couple of months before the water damage. AXA agreed 
to deal with this at the same time, but Mr T would have to put in a second claim and be 
subject to an additional excess payment. 
Mr T provided two quotes for the repairs to AXA. The cheapest was in the region of £43,000. 
AXA considered the quotes alongside the Schedule of Works (SoW) put together by their 
expert, and they considered the quotes to be too high. They said that some of the repairs 
being quoted for werent representative of the damage caused by the escape of water. There 
followed a lot of communication between Mr T and AXA to try and agree a settlement figure. 
But this wasnt possible. 
Based on their completed SoW, AXA made a cash settlement offer to Mr T of £30,000 after 
the deduction of the total excess due of £1,000. Mr T didnt accept this. 
Whilst the attempts to agree the settlement amount were ongoing, Mr T made several 
complaints to AXA. He said that they had caused delays during the claim. He also said they 
had caused him to lose his tenants, and he was therefore losing out on rent payments. He 
asked for this to be paid by AXA. And he wanted the cash settlement offered increased to 
£35,000.
AXA responded to the complaints made. They said that the cash settlement offer of £30,000 
wouldnt be increased as they felt it was fair and in line with the work that was required to 
repair the damage. They did accept that they had caused some delays during the claim. 
They accepted there had been an error in setting the claim up twice, and Mr T had been 
provided with incorrect contact details for people at AXA on occasion. They offered Mr T 
£500 compensation for their errors. AXA didnt offer to cover Mr Ts loss of rent, as this 
wasnt covered by his policy. 
The cash settlement of £30,000 and the compensation payment of £500 were made to Mr T 
but he remained unhappy. He brought his complaint to our service. He said that the cash 
settlement should be increased as he was struggling to get the work completed for the 
amount hed been given. He also said the compensation didnt take into account the trouble 
dealing with the claim had caused him. He works long hours and had to travel several times 
to the flat to deal with AXA. He said hed also lost the tenants now and wanted his loss of 
rent to be paid until he was able to acquire new tenants. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. He said that he felt the cash settlement 
made was fair and in line with the SoW AXA had put together. He said loss of rent isnt 
covered in Mr Ts policy, so it was reasonable of AXA not to pay this. And he felt that £500 
compensation was fair to account for the errors AXA had accepted theyd made. Mr T didnt 
accept our investigators opinion. 
As Mr T didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T and AXA have sent in a lot of correspondence regarding this complaint. Id like to 
assure them both that Ive read it all, but I wont be commenting on everything thats been 
mentioned. Ill be concentrating on what I think is important to the complaint. 
Cash settlement
When settling a claim AXA have a choice to either repair or replace the damage or offer a 
cash settlement for it. As theyve made a cash settlement to Mr T I have to decide if I think 
theyve done this fairly. And in this case, I think they have.
Ive seen in the evidence provided by AXA that Mr T was given the option of allowing AXAs 
contractors to complete the repairs or arranging this himself. This is what Id expect AXA to 
do. And Mr T was perfectly entitled to say that he would arrange the repairs. But that doesnt 
mean AXA have to pay Mr T the amount that it will cost him to get the repairs completed. 
AXA are only required to offer Mr T the amount it would have cost them had Mr T asked 
AXAs contractors to complete the repairs. And that is what theyve done. 
Having looked at the two quotes provided by Mr T and the SoW and quote provided by AXA 
Im satisfied their offer is a fair one. There are aspects of Mr Ts quotes that arent as a result of the water damage. For instance, the cheapest quote provided by Mr T allows for an entire 
kitchen replacement, including appliances. But neither the entire kitchen, nor the appliances, 
were damaged as a result of the escape of water. AXAs SoW allows for the parts of the 
kitchen affected to be replaced, along with an allowance of 50% towards the undamaged 
parts. This is in line with our approach and so I think this is reasonable. 
There are other aspects of the quotes that dont appear to be as a result of the water 
damage. The addition of electrical points and a grid isolator, and parts of the hallway floor 
that are damaged. 
AXAs cash settlement of £30,000 allows for some additional scope if other work is found to 
be needed, and theyve also included an amount to allow Mr T to have the work managed. I 
think their offer is fair and matches the SoW completed by their expert. So, I wont be asking 
AXA to increase their offer to Mr T.
Loss of rent
Mr T would like AXA to cover the rent hes lost since his tenants moved out in May 2019. 
AXA declined this as loss of rent isnt included in his policy. However, Mr T has said that its 
AXAs delays and mishandling of the claim that led to his tenants moving out, so they should 
be responsible. He feels that if the claim had been handled better and dealt with more 
promptly, the tenants would have renewed their contract and he wouldve continued to 
collect rent payments from them.
I appreciate that Mr T feels that AXA have saved money during the claim as they havent 
had to pay for alternative accommodation for his tenants. But I dont accept that was all 
AXAs fault. They agreed that when the works were being completed, they would provide 
alternative accommodation for Mr Ts tenants. But the work didnt start until after the tenants 
had moved out, as there was a long dispute and a lot of communication about the amount 
the claim should be settled at. 
But I havent seen anything to suggest that the tenants moved out at the end of their contract 
solely because of AXA and their handling of the claim. Ive seen emails between the tenants 
and Mr T regarding a reduction in their rent as they didnt feel they should be paying the full 
amount while the damage remained. I cant rule out that this didnt also play a part in the 
tenants decision to leave the flat at the end of their contract. Because of that, and because 
loss of rent isnt covered by the policy, Im not asking AXA to do anything. 
Delays
AXA have acknowledged they made some errors and caused some delays in their handling 
of the claim, particularly in the early stages. The claim was set up twice, and on occasion 
Mr T was given the incorrect contact details when he needed to contact someone to discuss 
his concerns. Mr T also provided an invoice for some emergency work that hed had to have 
completed to the flat. AXA should have agreed to settle this while the SoW and estimates 
were being obtained and its fair theyve accepted they delayed this too. AXA have also 
accepted they could have been more proactive in contacting the tenants to arrange the initial 
visit. 
AXA have paid Mr T £500 compensation for the errors and the delays. Im satisfied thats a 
reasonable offer. Its clear the delays could have been avoided, and the errors made with 
information shouldnt have happened. But Im not persuaded the claim would have been 
settled any sooner if these errors hadnt occurred. Mr T would still have remained unhappy 
with the cash settlement offered and would have continued to try and increase this with AXA.Mr T has said the compensation doesnt cover him for the stress of dealing with the claim, 
the time hes had to take to deal with it and the many miles hes had to cover backwards and 
forwards to the flat to handle appointments. But AXA arent responsible for the stress the 
claim has had on Mr T. Theyre only responsible for their actions once the claim has been 
notified to them, which he has been compensated for. Claims are often a time consuming 
and stressful time, and there will often be the need for information to be provided and 
validated. I cant hold AXA responsible for the time it takes Mr T to travel to and from the flat 
that he rents out  nor can I hold them responsible for the time Mr T has spent trying to sort 
it out. 
I wont be asking AXA to take any further action on this claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman