The complaint
 Mr T has complained that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) did not 
carry out proper affordability checks when lending to him.
 What happened
 Mr T took 37 loans with Sunny between September 2017 and May 2018. Each of the loans 
was due to be repaid over a period of six months  but in most cases Mr T repaid the loans 
early. Some of Mr Ts loans overlapped with one another. A summary of Mr Ts early 
borrowing is shown below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
122/09/2017 28/09/2017 6 £200.00 £62.96
224/09/2017 25/09/2017 6 £100.00 £94.22
330/09/2017 08/10/2017 6 £150.00 £44.94
402/10/2017 08/10/2017 6 £150.00 £89.23
510/10/2017 21/10/2017 6 £300.00 £100.00
622/10/2017 15/02/2018 6 £200.00 £63.80
723/10/2017 15/02/2018 6 £400.00 £190.54
829/10/2017 17/01/2018 6 £150.00 £235.82
901/11/2017 09/11/2017 6 £150.00 £280.45
10 09/11/2017 15/02/2018 6 £150.00 *
11 18/01/2018 13/02/2018 6 £150.00 *
12 16/02/2018 18/02/2018 6 £500.00 *
13 17/02/2018 19/02/2018 6 £300.00 *
14 18/02/2018 18/02/2018 6 £100.00 *
15 19/02/2018 20/02/2018 6 £200.00 *
 ** Ive not considered the highest repayment for these loans due to the overall pattern of 
lending from loan 9.
* *The repayment figure is sometimes made up of multiple payments when the loans
overlapped.
Mr T took a further 22 loans from February 2018 to May 2018 between £50 and £900.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and recommended Sunny refund the interest and 
charges on loans 5 to 37 as well as making amendments to Mr Ts credit file. She said if 
Sunny had done proportionate checks it would have realised from loan 5 that Mr T was 
DRN-1356092having problems managing his money and from loan 6 onwards the overall pattern of Mr Ts 
borrowing suggested he had become persistently reliant on short-term loans.
Sunny agreed to uphold Mr T's complaint from loan 16 onwards but it felt the checks it did 
were sufficient for loans 1 to 15. Mr T did not accept Sunny's offer.
I issued my provisional decision on 5 December 2019 explaining why I was thinking of 
reaching the same conclusion to the adjudicator but for different reasons, and upholding Mr 
Ts complaint in relation to loans 5-15.
Mr T accepted my provisional decision and has nothing further to add. Sunny did not 
accept my provisional decision. In summary, In summary it said it feels it did proportionate 
checks and these showed the loans were affordable. In summary, it said it feels it did 
proportionate checks and these showed the loans were affordable..
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered Sunnys response to my provisional decision, along with all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, my decision remains the same. For completeness, I have set my 
provisional decision out below and where relevant addressed Sunny's arguments within it to 
form my final decision.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Sunny lent to Mr T. The 
FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit-related 
regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, 
such as Sunny.
It is important to note that the FCA didn't, and doesn't, specify exactly how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability 
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the 
decision to lend.
CONC may not mention the number of previous loans a customer has had with a particular 
creditor as a relevant factor in determining what verification checks are proportionate. But as 
outlined in my provisional decision, as set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly 
relates to the particulars of the lending and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what 
is sufficient for one consumer might not be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for 
a consumer in one circumstance might not be so for the same consumer in other 
circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way.Certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include, 
but are not limited to :
    the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
    the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
    the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny said it undertook an independent check of the information Mr T had declared in his 
application. It said it used credit reference agency information as part of its checks which 
takes into account all other credit commitments, including any short term loans which were 
reported to the credit reference agency, as part of every affordability assessment. Sunny 
also independently verified Mr Ts income was accurate before the first loan. Having used all 
of this information about his financial circumstances in its affordability calculations; it feels 
that Mr T was able to sustainably make the monthly repayments. 
I think the checks Sunny did were proportionate for the first four loans and the information Mr 
T provided indicated that the loans were affordable. These were Mr Ts first few loans with 
Sunny, so I think it was entitled to rely on the information Mr T provided about his income 
and expenses.
But by the time Mr T asked for loan 5, Sunny should have done more than relying on the 
information he was providing about his finances. I think it should have taken steps at that 
time to independently verify Mr Ts true financial position. I appreciate it carried out a credit 
search and verified Mr Ts income when he first took loan 1. But I dont think this would have 
given Sunny the full picture of Mr Ts true financial position  for example it wouldn't have 
established the actual position in relation to his other reasonable commitments.
Mr T provided us with his bank statements and credit file, so we could see what better 
checks would most likely have shown Sunny.
My finding that Mr T was having problems managing his money was not simply based Mr T 
being granted credit elsewhere in the past. I dont know what Sunnys credit checks showed 
(it has provided a summary of some of its checks), but proportionate checks would have 
shown Sunny that Mr T had four other short-term loans outstanding with other lenders. 
Three of these were instalment loans and one payday loan. Mr T had £550 due to be repaid 
in the following days, in addition to the instalments of £100 on loan 5. So, if Sunny had done 
proportionate checks its more likely than not it would have realised all of this and not agree 
to lend Mr T loan 5. 
Loans 6, 7 and 8 were taken within the same month as loan 5 and proportionate checks 
would still have shown the same three short term instalment loans. The payday loan 
mentioned above had now been replaced and the amounts due to be repaid had increased 
to £738, in addition to the payments due to Sunny.During this period, Mr Ts own debt to Sunny increased from £200 (loan 6) to £750
(loans 6-8) within 7 days. In my view, its unlikely this situation arose simply because Mr T 
had a short-term cash flow problem and instead its more likely that there was a more 
fundamental underlying financial issue. As a responsible lender, I think Sunny would have 
realised this and not agreed to lend.
Sunny says it established that Mr T could afford the £100 repayments on loan 5 because he 
had a large disposable income and the repayments were a small percentage of his income. 
It made the same arguments in relation to loans 6, 7 and 8. 
First of all its affordability figures were largely based on Mr Ts declared expenses  I have 
already said above, I dont think it was enough at this point to rely on the figures provided by 
Mr T. But I also I think its unlikely that Mr T had truly had the disposable income of £990, 
otherwise I dont think he would have needed to replace loans 3 and 4 with a loan for £300 
so shortly after they were repaid or continue borrowing in the manner in which he did. 
Moreover, these arguments completely ignore what I said in my provisional decision - that 
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
It follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Sunny said that Mr T had never been late making his repayments, was never in arrears, and 
had repaid his previous Sunny Loans. But as I explained in my provisional decision, it 
doesnt automatically follow that he managed to repay them in a sustainable way. And the 
regulations are quite clear that Sunny needed to assess the whether the credit it agreed was 
affordable in a sustainable manner.
CONC 5.3.1(2) stated:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
The previous regulator, the Office of Fair Trading set out its guidance in the Irresponsible 
Lending Guidance. Paragraph 4.2 referred to above stated:
Whatever means and sources of information creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in 
question (my emphasis). We consider that before granting credit, significantly increasing the 
amount of credit, or significantly increasing the credit limit under an agreement for running account credit, creditors should take reasonable steps to assess a borrower's likely ability to 
be able to meet repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
The current regulator has highlighted relending as a serious concern. It said in a recent letter 
(March 2019) to the CEOs of high cost credit providers that:
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across 
the High Cost Lenders portfolio:
    a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending patterns
    firms affordability checks may be insufficient, leading to loans that customers may not be 
able to afford.
CONC 6.7.21 stated A firm should not refinance high-cost short-term credit where to do so 
is unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
[Note: paragraph 6.25 of ILG]
Paragraph 6.25 of the ILG stated Repeatedly refinancing (or 'rolling over') a borrower's 
existing credit commitment for a short-term credit product in a way that is unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful.
The OFT considers that this would include a creditor allowing a borrower to sequentially 
enter into a number of separate agreements for short-term loan products, one after another, 
where the overall effect is to increase the borrower's indebtedness in an unsustainable 
manner.
In my provisional decision, I explained that Id also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys 
lending history with Mr T, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Sunny should have realised that it shouldn't have provided any further loans.
Sunny agrees that a borrowing pattern or number of loans may be indicative that someone 
was having problems managing their money but it also considers there are other factors 
which should be taken into account. In particular, it says Mr T contacted them in May 2018 
(after his last Sunny Loan had been granted) to advise that his personal circumstances had 
changed with the recent arrival of his child, and he was taking unpaid leave and at this point 
he needed support making those repayments. Sunny says that Mr T did not say that any of 
the loans he been granted previously or that the repayments he was making were not 
affordable.
The fact that Mr T did not actively say any of the previous loan were not affordable, does not 
mean that they were affordable. And it was down to Sunny to establish whether or not the 
lending was affordable. I dont agree with Sunny that it was only required to consider Mr Ts 
ability to meet repayments during the term of each individual loan. As outlined above, the 
guidance states - this is likely to involve more than solely assessing the likelihood of the 
borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ts case, I think the point at which Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful was 
reached by loan 9. I say this because:
There was an emerging pattern between loans 1 and 8 of Mr T taking new loans 
shortly after taking out or repaying the previous ones and often overlapping with one another. I think that by loan 9, Sunny ought fairly and reasonably to have regarded 
that pattern as established.
Mr T repaid £300 (loan 5) and borrowed £200 (loan 6) the very next day. This was
topped up by a further £400 (loan 7) a day after that. So within two days, Mr T had
doubled his debt from £300 to £600. This was then topped up by a further £150 (loan
8) six days later. By loan 9 (£150) Mr Ts indebtedness had increased substantially 
he had borrowed £900 in 10 days  four and a half times what he had originally
borrowed. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr T was
having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loans were leaving in
his finances and that Mr Ts indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr T wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 9 was
taken out several weeks after loan 1. It (along with overlapping loans 6, 7 and 8) was
over four times the amount Mr T borrowed on loan 1.
I think that Mr T lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 9 
onwards. These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use. In my view, the sheer number of 
loans was more likely than not to have had negative implications on Mr Ts ability to access 
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans. Mr T would not 
have to apply for and have credit declined for this point to be valid.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 9 to 37 as well as loans 5 to 8 and Sunny 
should put things right as set out below.
Putting things right
Sunny shouldnt have given Mr T loans 5 to 37. I understand that loan 37 is still outstanding. 
If Sunny sold the debt to a third party it should buy this debt back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Sunny is not able to buy the debt back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below:
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr T towards interest, fees and
charges on loans 5 to 37.
B.Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr T which were
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr T originally made the payments, to the
date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 37, and treat any
repayments made by Mr T as though they had been repayments of the principal on loan 37.
If this results in Mr T having made overpayments then Sunny should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Sunny should then
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus
then the surplus should be paid to Mr T. However if there is still an outstanding balance then
Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr T.
E. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file in relation to loans 5 to 8.
The overall pattern of Mr Ts borrowing for loans 9 to 37 means any information recordedabout them is adverse, so Sunny should remove these loans entirely from Mr Ts credit file. If 
Sunny has sold any of the loans it should ask the debt purchaser to do the same. Sunny 
does not have to remove any outstanding loans from Mr Ts credit file until these have been 
repaid, but it should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to deduct tax from this interest. Sunny should give
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
 My final decision
 My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr T's complaint as I've explained above and in 
my provisional decision. I require Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to 
put things right for Mr T as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2020.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman