DRN-3870044
The complaint
Miss W complains about Vitality Health Limiteds handling of her private medical insurance 
claim.
Miss W is represented in this complaint by Ms S. 
What happened
On 27 August 2021 Miss W made a claim under the policy for a gynaecological condition. A 
few weeks later Vitality turned down the claim, as it did not think there was an acute medical 
condition. After Ms S disagreed with Vitalitys decision on Miss Ws behalf, Vitality asked that 
Miss Ws GP provide more information. 
After Vitality received the additional information from the GP, it thought Miss W may have 
misrepresented information about her health when joining the plan. 
Whilst Vitality was still considering the matter, Miss W attended an appointment with the 
NHS in November 2021. After examination, Miss W was admitted to the hospital for 
emergency surgery. She remained there for two nights before being discharged. 
Unfortunately, Miss W needed to be admitted to an NHS hospital again soon after, where 
she remained for a further two nights. 
In February 2022, Vitality said that whilst the issue had been present before Miss W had 
joined the plan, it thought she may not have considered the matter to be a medical condition, 
particularly given her age at the time. It therefore decided to accept the claim. However, as 
no further treatment was needed, Vitality offered Miss W £100 compensation for the delay, 
as well as a hamper. Unhappy with Vitalitys handling of the matter, Miss W brought a 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator mediated with Vitality about the matter, as he thought Vitality ought to have 
made a decision on the claim sooner than it did. Vitality offered Miss W compensation of 
£2,500. It said £2,000 was the estimated cost of the procedure if it had been performed 
privately, plus £500 compensation for any distress and inconvenience. Our investigator 
thought Vitalitys offer was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Miss W didnt accept Vitalitys offer, and so the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information Vitality received from Miss Ws GP in September 2021 said that Miss W had 
had the issue for at least the last four to five years. Given that Miss W only joined the plan in 
2019, it would seem that the issue predated her joining the plan.
The policy was taken out on a fully underwritten basis. That meant that Miss W disclosed 
information about her health in response to questions asked. I havent seen the application 
form, but Vitality says that Miss W did not mention the issue in response to questions asked. 
When an insurer suspects that someone has misrepresented information when taking out an 
insurance policy, it has a duty to investigate this. I therefore see nothing wrong with Vitality 
doing so. 
Having said that, I do agree with our investigator that Vitality took too long to consider the 
matter. I say that because it took Vitality around five months to decide that it would not 
pursue the misrepresentation (for the reasons Ive outlined above). 
Vitality now accepts that it should have covered the procedure privately. To put matters right, 
it has offered Miss W the equivalent private cost of an initial consultation, day-case 
procedure, and a follow-up consultation. It has estimated this to be around £2,000. In 
addition to this, Vitality has offered £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Miss W.
As our investigator has said, in circumstances such as this, we would not expect an insurer 
to pay an amount equal to the cost of private treatment that a member could have had. 
Instead, where someone has NHS treatment instead of private treatment, we would usually 
require an insurer to recognise they had been denied the comfort of private accommodation. 
To put things right, we would usually ask the insurer to pay compensation based on the cost 
to it of a private bed multiplied by the number of nights the member stayed in an NHS 
hospital. 
Miss W stayed in an NHS hospital for two nights for her initial procedure. In my experience, 
the cost of a private bed to an insurer for two nights would have been much less than 
£2,000. 
I appreciate Miss W had to go back to an NHS hospital after her procedure. I havent seen 
any medical information relating to that hospital admission. Though given that it took place 
after the initial procedure was carried out, Miss W may well have still needed that hospital 
admission even if the procedure had been carried out privately rather than on the NHS. I 
therefore havent taken this into account (though even if I had, its likely that the cost of a 
private bed to an insurer for four nights would have still been less than £2,000).
I do recognise that Miss W had a very upsetting experience, and the emergency hospital 
admission was distressing for her. However, taking into account that Vitalitys offer of £2,000 
is higher than I would have required it to pay, and it has offered an additional £500 for the 
distress caused to Miss W, I find that this total offer was reasonable in all the circumstances. 
To be clear, Ms S is not an eligible complainant for the purposes of this claim, and so I have 
not been able to consider any costs or impact to her. 
My final decision
Vitality Health Limited has already made an offer to pay £2,500 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Vitality Health Limited should pay £2,500.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman