DRN-2423233
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that their applicaition for a personal loan was declined by 
Clydesdale Bank, trading as Virgin Money, and are also unhappy at the standard of service 
that they received both during and after the loan application process.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R wanted to apply for a loan with Clydesdale Bank. They didnt want to apply for 
the loan online, so instead arranged an appointment with a member of staff in branch so that 
they could go through the application process in person.
Following this, Mr and Mrs Rs loan application was declined by Clydesdale Bank. Mr and 
Mrs R contacted Clydesdale Bank as they wanted to understand why the loan application 
had been declined. They had a number of conversations and meetings with Clydesdale 
Bank, but they didnt get a response that they were happy with, so they made a complaint.
Clydesdale Bank looked at their complaint. They agreed that the level of service that Mr and 
Mrs R had been provided with wasnt to the standard that they would have liked in certain 
instances, and they made a payment to Mr and Mrs R of £100 by way of compensation for 
this. However, Clydesdale Bank confirmed that the decision to decline the loan application 
still stood.
Mr and Mrs R werent satisfied with this response, so they referred their complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Clydesdale Bank 
were entitled to make a commercial decision to decline the loan application, and that the 
offer of compensation already made by Clydesdale Bank with regard the standard of service 
issue was reasonable. So, they didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Mr and Mrs R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find that I have arrived at the same outcome as our investigator, and for 
essentially the same reasons. 
To being, I must note that Mr and Mrs R have made a number of detailed points which I 
have considered in their entirety. I wont be going into similar detail in this response but will 
instead focus on the issues that I feel are materially important to the outcome of this 
complaint. I hope that Mr and Mrs R dont feel that I havent considered any points that I 
dont specifically mention  I can confirm that I have  its just that I dont feel that addressing 
these would have any impact on the overall decision that I have made.
I understand that one aspect of Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is that Clydesdale Bank didnt 
accept the loan application that Mr and Mrs R made. Indeed, Mr and Mrs R have explained 
that their own assessment of their personal and financial circumstances is such that they can 
see no valid reason why their loan application would not have been accepted.
However, this is Mr and Mrs Rs own assessment of themselves, and while I can understand 
how it must be frustrating for them that the loan application was declined when they 
personally can see no reason why it would have been, it must be noted that Clydesdale 
Bank are entitled to make the decision to decline the loan application, if they so choose.
Ultimately, its for a bank to decide who it will lend to, and if so, on what terms. It isnt within 
the remit of this service to tell a bank that they should approve a loan application. However, 
it would be expected that the process that a bank follows in assessing customers who make 
loan applications is a fair one and doesnt lead to customers applications being declined in 
any manner that could be considered unfair. 
Its also important to note that a bank doesnt have an obligation to provide a full and 
exhaustive explanation as to why a loan application wasnt approved. This is because 
certain aspects of that information are considered commercially sensitive. This service is 
able to request such information from banks, but it does so on the condition that any 
information which the bank considers as being commercially sensitive isnt passed on to any 
third parties, including the complainants  in this instance, Mr and Mrs R.
Its clear from their correspondence that Mr and Mrs R are frustrated that they havent been 
able to get what they consider to be sufficient information from Clydesdale Bank to enable 
them to arrive at an acceptable understanding of why their loan application was declined. 
But Clydesdale Bank arent obliged to provide the level of information that Mr and Mrs R are 
requesting here, for the reasons explained above, and I must note that the level of 
information provided by Clydesdale Bank to Mr and Mrs R so far goes beyond that which this 
service would usually expect.
From the information provided to this service by Clydesdale Bank, I am satisfied that the 
decision made by Clydesdale Bank to decline Mr and Mrs Rs loan application was a 
reasonable one, and wasnt the result of an unfair outcome to Mr and Mrs R. I know that Mr 
and Mrs R will disagree with this and believe that certain aspects of their personal and 
financial circumstances havent been appropriately assessed by Clydesdale Bank, but I am 
assured that regardless of any new or updated information that they might want to provide, 
the result of any new loan application would be the same.
I know that Mr and Mrs R will find this difficult to accept, but unfortunately the commercially 
sensitive nature of some of the information that Mr and Mrs R would like to have access too 
means that it is unlikely that Clydesdale Bank will ever be able to provide them with an 
answer that fully satisfies them, without disclosing information that they have no obligation to 
disclose  which this service would not expect them to do.
It follows then that I am unable to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint in this regard. In 
addition, having considered Mr and Mrs Rs complaint as it relates to the standard of service 
that Clydesdale Bank provided to them, I also find that Im satisfied that the offer of £100 
compensation already made by Clydesdale Bank is fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances, and I note that it is commensurate with what this service would expect. 
Because of this, I will not be asking Clydesdale Bank to make any additional offers of 
compensation beyond that which they have already made.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr and Mrs R were wanting, and I can 
understand why they would want further clarification on why their loan application was declined. But I hope that they will understand, considering everything that I have explained 
above, why this might not be possible, and why I have reached the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman