DRN-2939220
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) only paid part of 
his claim following the breakdown of his vehicle. 
What happened
Mr Gs vehicle suffered a breakdown/non-start and he called his vehicle breakdown provider 
under his parts and garage insurance cover. A breakdown attendant attended the scene but 
couldnt start the vehicle. So, it was recovered to a garage. 
At the garage the battery was replaced, and the vehicle was started. But the garage also 
noted that there was a mis-fire issue and the engine had low compression. So, it replaced 
the spark plugs and carried out a full engine diagnosis. The estimate from the garage says, 
low compression, suspect issues with pistons, piston rings, most likely engine, and it 
submitted a charge of £432.96
Acromas looked at what had happened and said that under the policy terms and conditions it 
was only liable for the non-start issue. It offered to pay part of the bill, £144 (less £35 
excess) only.
Mr G was unhappy with this and he complained to our service. An investigator looked at the 
complaint and said that Acromas hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr G doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
This insurance policy provides cover for parts and garage costs (also known as Breakdown 
Repair Cover). In essence its a cover to get you back moving if you suffer a breakdown. Any 
parts and labour required to get you back moving are covered under this policy.
The cover is very clear about a few things. Just because a breakdown attendant attends 
your vehicle doesnt mean the repair will always be covered. The repair has to be sudden 
and unexpected and it must require a repair or replacement of an insured part to enable the 
journey to be resumed. 
The policy does not cover any faults of which the consumer is aware of prior to the start of 
the journey on which the breakdown occurred. Nor does it cover servicing.
Mr G reported a breakdown/non-start and a breakdown attendant arrived on the scene. The 
breakdown attendant couldnt start the car. The roadside report says there was a possible 
issue with the camshaft sensor. There were a number of fault codes listed, a misfire was 
detected, and the engine power was noted as being too low. A recovery was recommended.
At the garage it was noted that the battery was faulty. The battery was replaced, and the 
vehicle was started. However, the garage noted there was an engine issue too. So, after 
calling Mr G it carried out an engine diagnostic and timing check. The garage found the 
compression low on two of the four cylinders. It replaced the spark plugs, put oil in the 
pistons and said it suspected issues with the pistons, and piston rings. It recommended that 
further investigation was required and presented a bill for £432.96.
Under the terms and conditions of the policy Acromas is responsible for the cost of getting 
Mr G moving again. It isnt responsible for the diagnosis or subsequent repair of any 
underlying issues, unrelated to the breakdown/non-start. The policy says The cover set out 
in the policy is designed to run alongside your breakdown membership, to cover the cost of 
parts, which require replacing or repairing, following an attended breakdown. This cover is 
not a warranty and is not intended to replace servicing.
On the breakdown record this incident was recorded as a non-start. Mr G says My car 
wouldnt start, several attempts by recovery guy, to start the vehicle, but it failed to start. 
Vehicle towed to the garage, garage calls me to inform me, before they do anything they first 
need to change the battery on the car, by which I obliged, changed the battery and did a few 
other investigations as to why the vehicle is playing up. All I am requesting is the payment 
for the labour, battery and PPE to do the job excluding the spark plugs.
The primary responsibility for Acromas is to get Mr Gs car started again. I can clearly see 
that other issues were present when the vehicle was recovered. So, its my role to determine 
whether the cover Mr G had in place should cover the full cost of the bill he was presented 
with.
So, lets start with the spark plugs. Spark plugs are excluded, and Mr G is aware of this and 
accepts that he has to pay for these.
The remaining cost is made up of the cost of replacing the battery and the diagnostic and 
investigation costs surrounding the low compression and investigation of the misfire issue. 
Acromas has refunded the cost of replacing the battery only. And if the remaining costs had 
been associated with the initial breakdown/non-start incident I would be happy to say they 
should be included. But in this instance its clear these issues were pre-existing, and Mr G 
was actually aware of them existing too. Exactly a month before the breakdown Mr G had a 
health and visual check carried out at the same garage. The report from that check says that 
the engine management light was on and 23 fault codes were identified in the engine and it 
recommended further investigation. I can see from the health check that Mr G had 
authorised further investigation in relation to these faults. I can also see that the engine oil 
was noted as being low. The report sets out the risks related to low engine oil too. The report 
doesnt show that any further investigation in relation to this was authorised. 
So, its clear there were issues with Mr Gs vehicle prior to the breakdown. Theres nothing to 
support that the engine management issues had been rectified, and a diagnostic test done 
after the breakdown suggests there is still an engine issue present. As per the policy terms 
and conditions this isnt covered. I can also see that the garage had a call with Mr G before it 
carried out the diagnostics to explain what was happening.  
I can appreciate why Mr G is annoyed about this. But this policy will not cover failures that 
Mr G was previously aware of or had been made aware of, nor will it cover servicing issues 
such as low oil. The health and visual check shows there were engine issues identified, and I cant see they were rectified at the time of the breakdown/non-start. As such, I wont be 
asking Acromas to do anymore. Acromas is only liable for the cost of the battery 
replacement and associated labour (£144 less excess of £35) and it should pay this now if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Mr G has also raised a query about the battery and the actual need for it to be replaced at 
all. He says that at the time of the health check the battery was in good condition and this 
check was only conducted a month previously. But all the health check says is that the 
battery was secure, and terminals were ok. This doesnt tell us anything about its condition 
or its ability to hold charge. And in this case, the car wouldnt start and when the battery was 
replaced it started. So clearly the battery was a problem at the time the breakdown/non-start 
was reported. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman