DRN-2885801
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the length of time Zurich Insurance PLC has taken to investigate and 
accept a claim for fire damage to her property. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold it. Heres an excerpt of my provisional decision:
What happened
 
There has been extensive background to this complaint as the claim was initially 
raised in January 2018. I wont be repeating the full history of the complaint, instead 
Ill focus on what I believe to be the key points, based on the evidence and 
arguments I have seen. But Ill consider any additional evidence or arguments either 
side is able to provide in response to this provisional decision, before I reach my final 
decision.
Mrs Gs property suffered an extensive fire in January 2018 which she reported to 
Zurich  her home insurance provider. Mrs G had sadly lost her husband a few 
months prior to the fire, and subsequently discovered many significant debts he had 
outstanding, the majority of which she wasnt previously aware of. 
Due to concerns about Mrs Gs financial situation and the timing of the loss, Zurich 
has interviewed Mrs G and several of her relatives and friends. It has also instructed 
a forensic expert to inspect the property and has requested and reviewed Mrs Gs 
phone records in an attempt to verify her testimony in respect of her financial affairs 
and her movements on the day of the fire.
These investigations have taken over three years. Zurich states that Mrs G hasnt 
always been cooperative with its investigations  which is something she is required 
to be under the terms of her policy. But Mrs G says that she has only questioned the 
relevance of certain investigations because Zurich hasnt been open or transparent 
about its concerns or has requested information several times despite it already 
being provided. Mrs G says shes been clear throughout the claim about the impact it 
has been having on her health and that of her son and in-laws (who also lived at the 
property).
Mrs G complains that Zurich have unfairly and unreasonably delayed settling the 
claim. She says this has been most stressful and painful time of her life and that 
Zurichs actions have had a significant, negative impact on her and her family.
Mrs G brought her complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. In December 2019, our investigator thought Zurich had treated Mrs G 
unfairly. She said there was no evidence to support Zurichs suspicions that the fire 
wasnt fortuitous. She didnt think it was reasonable for Zurich to request and assess 
Mrs Gs phone records at such a late stage in the claim. She thought it had had long 
enough to complete its investigations, so said it should make a decision on the claim 
and pay Mrs G £5,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
her.
Our investigator and Mrs G later agreed that it was reasonable to allow Zurich to 
assess her mobile phone records. Our investigator also said that throughout the 
claim she felt Zurich had been insensitive to Mrs Gs circumstances and to the impact 
its actions were having on her health and that of her family. However, she 
acknowledged that Mrs G had been responsible for some periods of delay and that 
Zurich had been funding alternative accommodation for Mrs G throughout the length 
of its investigations. So, she suggested that a reduced amount of compensation, 
£2,000, along with Zurich finally making a claim decision, would be a fair way to 
resolve Mrs Gs complaint.
Neither side agreed with our investigators assessment, so the complaint was passed 
to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
Zurich has since accepted that it now needs to settle the claim. It says concerns 
remain over some of the evidence, but it accepts it is unable to meet the legal burden 
of proof to establish that it would be reasonable to refuse to cover the claim. 
However, Zurich doesnt accept that it has caused any unreasonable delays in 
reaching this position. It says its investigations were proportionate and reasonable 
and that at each stage it was prompted into further investigations by new evidence or 
inconsistent testimony provided by Mrs G. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to determine whether Zurich has treated Mrs G fairly in the way it has 
handled her claim Ive first considered its obligations under the relevant regulations. 
In this case that is the Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS 8.1.1 states that an insurer must settle claims promptly and fairly.
Zurich has maintained throughout Mrs Gs claim that there were features of concern 
which warranted further investigation. These were the many outstanding debts in 
both her name, and that of her late husbands, inconsistencies between her 
testimony of her movements on the day of the fire, and her initial keenness to accept 
a cash settlement early on to pay off the interest only mortgage on the home rather 
than to carry out reinstatement.
Zurich says that it was reasonable to carry out investigations into these features in 
order to satisfy itself that the loss was genuinely fortuitous, before agreeing to settle 
the claim. It says that throughout the claim, Mrs G (and later her loss assessor) has 
been evasive and obstructive to its enquiries which has delayed it in reaching this 
position.Ive thought carefully about Zurichs position here. I agree that there were certain 
features present which would prompt a prudent insurer to carry out further 
investigations before being comfortable settling a claim. But what is in dispute here is 
whether the number and length of Zurichs enquiries has been fair and reasonable in 
the particular circumstances of the case.
In order to help me decide this, I asked Zurich to provide me with a timeline of its 
investigations, to demonstrate which evidence was provided at which time and why 
certain evidence may have prompted the need for further investigation. 
From what Ive seen, it appears that Zurich appointed a loss adjuster early in the 
claim who visited the property and interviewed Mrs G. There was also an initial 
forensic investigation into the fire  which seems to have concluded that the cause 
couldnt be definitively identified. Through these early investigations, Zurich 
discovered Mrs Gs various financial difficulties and asked for consent to request 
information from her creditors and mortgage company. At this stage, Mrs G didnt 
appear to understand the relevance of these enquiries, but she seems to have 
cooperated nonetheless.  
Around four months into Zurichs investigations, Mrs G appointed a loss assessor to 
help with the claim as she was unhappy with the length of time the claim was taking 
and with Zurichs lines of enquiry. The loss assessor wrote to Zurich and raised a 
complaint on Mrs Gs behalf. In Zurichs final response, sent in May 2018, it 
highlighted that:
It was mindful of the sensitivities of the claim
There were unanticipated financial pressures following Mrs Gs husbands 
passing
Mrs G herself had recognised the features present by stating she knows how 
this looks
They are dealing with an unexplained fire which occurred in a turbulent period 
with significant levels of financial stress and an appetite from Mrs G to have 
the mortgage paid off with any claim settlement.
It didnt intend to cast aspersions, but it needed to satisfy itself as to the 
accuracy of the claim presented and its enquiries about Mrs Gs financial 
situation form part of that.
It wasnt possible at this stage to set out a timescale for a claim decision but it 
accepts the claim cannot be allowed to run indefinitely. It envisaged making a 
decision before the six-month alternative accommodation lease would expire.
Following this, Zurich said it needed another meeting with Mrs G to discuss her 
financial affairs. This took place in September 2018 and seems to have been cut 
short. It seems Zurich made it clear that a further, follow-up meeting would be 
needed. After the meeting Zurich asked for further signed authority from Mrs G to 
approach additional creditors. This authority wasnt provided until December 2018. 
The reason for delay here appears to be Mrs G and her loss assessors belief that 
the additional enquiries were unnecessary and irrelevant.Once Zurich had received the information from the various creditors (around 
February 2019), it sought to arrange the follow-up meeting. There was significant 
back and forth between Zurich and Mrs Gs loss assessor about the relevance of 
these enquiries and the reason why a further meeting was necessary. The loss 
assessor highlighted that Mrs G, and some of her friends and relatives, had already 
submitted to hours of interview. They also questioned why Zurich had failed to record 
these interviews.
After several months of communication about the relevance of the meeting, and the 
potential location, one was arranged for 6 June 2019. The loss assessor asked for 
details of the questions that would be asked in advance and assurances that no new 
information would be presented without prior notification. Zurich didnt agree to this. 
The meeting was eventually abandoned by Zurich. It says this was because of the 
tone of communications from the loss assessor and Mrs G led it to believe that the 
meeting would not be productive. Mrs G was very distressed by this, as she had 
already paid for train tickets to attend the meeting. Her loss assessor also pointed out 
that a member of their team had assured Zurich that he would attend and ensure the 
tone of the meeting remained professional and productive.
From what Ive seen from the communications around this meeting, I dont agree that 
Zurich treated Mrs G fairly by cancelling the meeting when it did. I appreciate its 
reluctance to have conditions placed upon the questions it could ask. But equally, I 
dont think the conditions Zurich sought to place on the meeting, such as its approach 
to the claim thus far not being questioned, was fair either. And once the loss 
assessor and Mrs G had informed it that she had already paid for train tickets, and 
promised to ensure a respectful meeting, I think Zurich ought to have allowed the 
meeting to go ahead. 
Ill go on to consider the impact of this decision later, when I consider if any 
compensation ought to be paid to Mrs G. But aside from compensation, I do intend to 
direct Zurich to reimburse Mrs Gs lost train fare, and to pay 8% simple interest on 
the amount from the date she was out of pocket until the date she is reimbursed.
Following the failed meeting, Zurich set out its remaining lines of enquiry to Mrs G in 
writing. This is something the loss assessor pointed out that they had requested it to 
do months earlier. Zurich also appointed a further forensic expert to attend the site. 
Mrs G and her loss assessor continued to dispute the relevance and timescales of 
these investigations and maintained that Zurichs intention was to find any possible 
reason to justify declining a valid claim.
In December 2019, Zurich set out its intentions to review Mrs Gs phone records from 
the time of the claim. Our investigator initially said this wasnt reasonable and that it 
should reach a claim decision without them. But agreement was eventually reached 
for these investigations to happen in July 2020. Zurich obtained the data in mid-
August and informed our investigator that it should be able to reach its decision by 
the end of September 2020.
Our investigator issued her final assessment of Mrs Gs complaint in September 
2020 saying that Zurich should make its decision by 30 September 2020 as agreed. 
She maintained that she didnt think the phone records would be material to Zurichs 
claim decision  but had agreed for them to be reviewed in the interest of getting the 
claim decided as soon as possible, to reduce the ongoing impact to Mrs G. She didnt 
think Zurich had been sufficiently understanding or empathetic to Mrs Gs 
circumstances, and she thought this was the reason that Mrs G hadnt always been 
fully cooperative. Zurich didnt agree that it would be fair to expect it to reach a decision that soon, 
owing to the amount of data obtained from the phone providers. It said it could reach 
a decision by 31 October 2020. This didnt happen either, and there then followed a 
period of around four months where I cant see that the claim was progressing 
effectively. Following this, Zurich said it had completed its assessment of the phone 
records and had one final question it needed clarification on before it could accept 
the claim. This was provided in March 2021 and Zurich has since said it will accept 
the claim - although it says it remains uncomfortable, and that it maintains its 
investigations were reasonable and proportionate.
Ive thought carefully about all the evidence and arguments put forward by both 
sides. I agree that Zurich was entitled to investigate the circumstances of the claim 
and that this included Mrs Gs financial circumstances and movements on the day of 
the fire. But I dont think that a period of over three years can be considered either 
prompt or fair.
I do accept that some of the delays were out of Zurichs control, such as time spent 
waiting for creditors to respond to requests for information. But there are several 
periods of what I believe were unavoidable delays which I think Zurich are 
responsible for. For example, I think the multiple months it spent arguing with the loss 
assessor about a third interview taking place could have been avoided by it simply 
putting its questions in writing as requested, and as it eventually did. Particularly as 
Mrs G had already sat through many hours of interview  which dont appear to have 
been recorded by Zurich and that she expressed how challenging it was to leave her 
son for long periods due to his health. I also cant account for the nearly eight months 
it took between Zurich receiving the phone records and its decision to accept the 
claim. Particularly as it twice confirmed to our service that it would review the records 
as a priority and make a decision within around six weeks.
I appreciate Zurichs argument about the delay in its ability to obtain the phone 
records. But I think it reasonably ought to have known that these records would be 
relevant early on in the claim  when it was established that the cause of the fire 
couldnt be identified. And had they been requested at that stage, on balance, I think 
its more likely than not that they would have been provided without the reluctance 
and delay that occurred when they were requested in December 2019  some 23 
months into the claim.
I also appreciate that there have been occasions where Mrs G hasnt provided 
information as quickly as she could have done  such as the authority mandates for 
her creditors. And Ill consider this when making a finding on what I think a fair 
amount of compensation should be. 
In order to reach a provisional decision, Ive thought carefully about how long I think 
the claim ought reasonably to have taken to investigate and be decided by Zurich. 
Ive taken into account the particular complexities of the claim and the various 
features of the claim which I agree warranted further investigation. Having done so, I 
think the claim ought reasonably to have been decided, and accepted, within 18 
months of the fire  taking into account the periods of delay I think have been caused 
by Mrs G or her loss assessor. Ill explain why in more detail.As I understand it, the fire service report and initial forensic report suggested that a 
cause of the fire could never be known. Therefore, there was no strong evidence of 
arson as the cause. This means the only remaining concerns with the claim 
surrounded Mrs Gs financial situation and inconsistencies in her testimony about her 
movements on the day. I agree that enquiries into these were potentially relevant, but 
I think Zurich could have done a better job of explaining why, and of being sensitive 
and empathetic to Mrs Gs personal circumstances. Afterall, it knew that this was a 
policyholder who had lost her husband and was the sole caregiver to a son with 
significant health concerns. 
Had Zurich done more to acknowledge and respect the sensitives, and to be clearer 
about its concerns, I think its likely that information would have been more 
forthcoming and that conversations would have been more productive. I also think, 
as explained above, that its enquiries into the phone records ought to have been 
carried out early in 2018, rather than late 2019/2020. Had this all happened, I think 
the claim could have reached its conclusion within 18 months. 
I also think that after a period of 18 months, whether Zurich was fully satisfied or not, 
it should have considered whether it was reasonable to continue its investigations 
considering the impact on a vulnerable consumer with a vulnerable son. Zurich has 
now agreed to accept the claim because it accepts it is not able to meet the 
necessary burden of proof to decline the claim based on its concerns  which it says 
do persist. But in my view, had everything happened as it ought to have done, Zurich 
could, and should, have reached this decision within 18 months as it would likely 
have obtained the majority of the evidence it has done by that point. This means that 
Im currently minded to decide that Zurich is responsible for around two years worth 
of unnecessary delays and the impact that these delays had on Mrs G.
Mrs G has explained the impact this claim has had on her in great detail. I appreciate 
that Zurich has covered alternative accommodation For Mrs G and her family 
throughout the claim and I agree that this will have gone some way to mitigating the 
inconvenience she has suffered. But I dont think it has the same effect on the level 
of distress. I think its reasonable to conclude that anyone who was forced to live 
away from their home for such an extended period of time would find it distressing  
irrespective of whether their intention was always to sell it. And I think this is 
particularly true of Mrs G, taking into account hers, her sons and her in-laws health 
concerns. I think Mrs G, and her family, have been severely impacted by the 
unreasonable length of time the claim has been allowed to continue for.
Taking into account the delays in this claim, and the severe impact they have had on 
Mrs G, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Zurich to pay her £4,000 
compensation.
Mrs G feels that in addition to compensation, Zurich should also cover the costs she 
has incurred in employing her loss assessor. She says that without the support and 
involvement of her loss assessor she wouldnt have been able to cope with dealing 
with the claim.
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Gs request here. Firstly, I should point out that loss 
assessor fees arent something that would be covered under the terms of Mrs Gs 
policy. But I am able to award such costs if I believe it is fair and reasonable to do so, 
in the particular circumstances of a complaint. I may do so if, for example, I believe 
that without the loss assessors involvement, Mrs G would remain in a worse 
position.In this case, I dont believe it would be fair or reasonable for me to award Mrs G the 
cost of her loss assessors. I say this because I dont agree that Mrs Gs loss 
assessors have had a material impact on the successful resolution to the claim. In 
fact, I think there were certain situations where the opposite is true and that they 
have contributed to the unnecessary delays to the claim. For example, during the 
communications around the third meeting needing to take place in June 2019. 
Ultimately, Mrs G chose to appoint a loss assessor to manage her claim for her, 
knowing that their fees wouldnt be covered. So, I dont think it would be fair to expect 
Zurich to cover these costs in the circumstances of this claim.
Mrs G has also questioned the extent of her cover for alternative accommodation. 
She says that once the cash settlement is agreed, and paid, her property is still going 
to be uninhabitable for many months. But she is concerned that Zurich will aim to 
limit its liability to cover alternative accommodation based on the fact it has already 
been covering these costs during the time of the claim.
I should point out here that the complaint I am considering is whether Zurich has 
treated Mrs G fairly and reasonably in the way it handled the investigation of her 
claim. Any dispute over individual elements of the claim which the parties may 
disagree on, such as repair costs and/or alternative accommodation, would first need 
to be raised as a new complaint with Zurich. Should this happen, and Mrs G remain 
unhappy with Zurichs response, she can bring a new complaint to this service. 
However, I would note here that Zurich has been clear throughout that it has been 
covering Mrs Gs alternative accommodation costs on a without prejudice basis, 
rather than because it was required to under the policy, as it hadnt yet accepted 
liability for settling the claim.
I said I was intending to direct Zurich to promptly take all necessary steps to settle the claim 
in line with the terms and conditions of Mrs Gs policy  as it had already agreed to do. I also 
said it should reimburse her train fare, plus 8% interest, subject to proof of purchase and that 
it should pay £4,000 compensation.
I asked both sides to provide any further comments or evidence they wanted me to consider 
before I reached a final decision.
Zurich confirmed it was prepared to accept my provisional findings. 
Mrs G said my provisional decision was quite fair and reasonable. But she did raise some 
further points she wanted me to consider. To clarify, where I refer to Mrs G here, Im also 
referring to comments put forward by her loss assessor. In summary, Mrs G said:
She has had to continue paying her interest only mortgage for far longer than she 
would have had to had Zurich not caused delays. Its difficult to quantify these losses 
but a fair estimate is £1,600 per month over a period of 23 months (£36,000 total).
She has needed to pay higher renewal premiums for the last three years due to the 
claim remaining open because of Zurichs delays.
She needed support from her loss assessor as she was in a vulnerable position and 
couldnt face dealing with Zurich directly. For this reason, she feels I should award at 
least £10,000 toward the cost of her loss assessor.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the additional comments provided in response to my 
provisional decision. Having done so, my provisional decision remains unchanged. Ill 
explain why.
Mrs G states that Zurichs delays have meant she has needed to continue paying her 
interest only mortgage for longer than she intended. She would like Zurich to compensate 
her for this.
I explained in my provisional decision that I think Zurich has caused delays. But I also 
highlighted that it has been covering alternative accommodation for Mrs G throughout the 
process. This means that while Mrs G has continued to pay her mortgage, she has 
continued to have somewhere to live  funded by Zurich. This means Mrs G has only 
incurred accommodation costs once, albeit for a property she wasnt residing at due to the 
loss. This is broadly the same position she would have been in had the claim progressed as 
it should have done. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect Zurich to pay 
Mrs G over £30,000 in mortgage expenses when it has already paid over £80,000 in 
alternative accommodation costs and emergency payments.
In terms of Mrs Gs concerns with her insurance premiums, I think any potential increase in 
the amount shes paying will more likely be because there has been a claim, rather than 
because the claim remains open. But in any event, as the claim isnt yet closed, Id be 
unable to say either way whether the open claim contributed to this, at this stage.
Mrs G has highlighted that she didnt only rely on her loss assessor for technical support. 
She says that without the support of her loss assessor she wouldnt have been able to cope, 
mentally, with the claim and would likely have withdrawn it.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs G has said about this. I dont wish to downplay 
her experience during the claim or the support she has received from her loss assessor. But 
there are free services available to provide the type of emotional support or third-party 
representation for vulnerable people that Mrs G has said she found so helpful. I also note 
that Mrs G appointed her loss assessor after roughly four months  so at this stage the claim 
had not been open for an excessive period of time. 
Ultimately, I remain of the view that Mrs G instructed her loss assessor knowing these were 
costs not covered by her policy. And I dont think it would be fair to direct Zurich to cover 
these costs in the particular circumstances of this claim.
Neither side has disputed the remainder of my provisional findings. So, for those, I have 
reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision and for the same 
reasons.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Gs 
complaint in part.
Zurich Insurance PLC must:
Promptly take all necessary steps to settle the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mrs Gs policy  as it has already agreed to do
Pay Mrs G £4,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
her
Reimburse Mrs Gs train fare from June 2019  subject to proof of purchase  plus 
8% simple interest* from the date Mrs G was out of pocket until the date of 
settlement.
*If Zurich Insurance PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mrs G, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs G a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman