DRN-3966318
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain that London and Country Mortgages Ltd trading as L&C failed to 
provide the service they would have expected and caused them to miss out on a favourable 
rate of interest for their mortgage.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S used L&C as a mortgage broker. In September 2021 they had an offer 
accepted on a property. The initial lender that L&C approached rejected their application. In 
October 2021 they approached through the broker another lender. Although it was more 
expensive, they felt they had limited options. Mr S and Mrs S say that the process was 
stressful, disorganised, and chaotic. The first problem was that their chosen solicitor wasnt 
on the lenders panel and although on several occasions they understood that this had been 
sorted it seems that it was never sorted, and the application lapsed on 11 January. The 
lender also asked for a full structural survey and other additional information. Mr S and Mrs 
S say that throughout this period, they got no direction from L&C as to how the mortgage 
was proceeding, were continually asked for more documentation and they made phone calls 
asking updates that werent returned. When the application lapsed they had to proceed with 
a new product and additional fees. Mr S and Mrs S say that the cost was £5,932 together 
with the distress and at a cost to their health.
L&C said that the long response times from the lender and the need for a full structural 
survey slowed everything up and then just before the offer could be issued, the problem with 
the solicitors not being on the panel meant that the application lapsed. But L&C accepted 
that there were service issues, upheld this complaint and offered £200 in compensation. Our 
investigator felt that as the matter couldnt proceed because of the issue with the solicitor 
that the award of £200 compensation represented a fair outcome. Mr S and Mrs S disagreed 
and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S and Mrs S set out in their complaint form a detailed history of their interactions with 
L&C which Ive summarised above. This is an application were several requests by the 
lender for further documentation which of itself isnt unusual but was demanding of Mr S and 
Mrs Ss time and no doubt frustrating for them. There were also service issues whereby Mr S 
and Mrs S were promised phone call returns and wanted to be updated by L&C but werent 
kept in the loop. But the other issue is whose fault was it that the application was allowed to 
lapse before a mortgage offer could issue. 
During the period after the application was submitted, the broker really had a limited role 
being effectively a point of contact between the lender and Mr S and Mrs S. That role was to 
pass on requests for information from the lender to Mr S and Mrs S and, in the main, return 
documentation to the lender. On reading the file I dont see that L&C failed in that role. If the 
lender requested further documentation that request was passed onto Mr S and Mrs S and 
any documentation when received from Mr S and Mrs S was passed onto the lender.
The reason that the lender appears to have been unable to issue a mortgage offer was that 
Mr S and Mrs Ss chosen solicitor wasnt on the lenders panel. A solicitor getting onto the 
lenders panel is simply not a matter for L&C. Its in the hands of the solicitor and the lender. 
So, whatever about the communications between L&C and Mr S and Mrs S about this and 
whether they were confusing or not, in the final analysis, L&C wasnt responsible for the 
solicitor not being on the panel. Mr S and Mrs S have suggested that the broker should have 
intervened in an exchange system that might have hurried the approval of the solicitors firm. 
But the role of the broker is to access a mortgage for the client not to ensure that their 
chosen solicitor is on the lenders panel. That the solicitor wasnt on the panel, is the reason 
the application lapsed before the offer issued, I cant fairly find L&C responsible for that. I 
also note that in their email to us of 3 February 2023, Mr S and Mrs S question why after 3 
December 2021, when they understand the case was closed down by the lender were they 
still asked to submit information to L&C? Ive inspected L&Cs system case notes and those 
of the lender and I note that there was a number of deadlines when the lender required all 
information to be in by including the 26 November and 3 December, but the lender was 
willing to push back these deadlines for a time but then its maximum period was reached, 
and it closed the file. The lender indicated that it was in a position on the 17 December to 
issue an offer if there were solicitors in place which were on its panel. The absence of those 
prevented the offer issuing but as I say thats not the fault of the broker.   
This leaves the service issues and the poor service that L&C accepts that Mr S and Mrs S 
suffered. In general, I found that L&C processed the application and the requests of the 
lender promptly but failed in its responses to Mr S and Mrs S requests for updates. Mr S and 
Mrs S would reasonably be disappointed with this, but their real disappointment must be with 
the lapsing of the application. But that wasnt the responsibility of L&C and so, my view is 
that the amount offered by L&C is fair and so I wont require L&C to pay any further 
compensation. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman