DRN-2344816
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont refund her the payments that she made 
to a ticket re-seller who scammed her.
What happened
The parties are aware of the details of what went on. So, I dont propose to repeat them all 
here. In summary Ms W purchased tickets to various events from a ticketing re-seller (C). 
He ultimately didnt send her all the tickets that shed ordered. And left her out of pocket. Ms 
W has since discovered that C has scammed numerous other people who have all lost 
money. Ms W thinks that Barclays should have been aware of the scam being run by C and 
protected her from transferring money to him.
Ms W thinks shes lost in the region of £27,000, although Barclays only has a record of her 
transferring about £21,000 from her account with it. Barclays has also said that Ms W 
received refunds of around £12,000 from C. And Ms W did receive some of the tickets, 
which she then went on to re-sell to her own customers.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Ms Ws complaint be upheld. He thought that Ms W 
had authorised the transactions and that the payments werent unusual in terms of Ms Ws 
account usage. So, he didnt think that Barclays would have been on notice that there was 
anything potentially fraudulent going on. So, it couldnt have intervened.
Ms W didnt agree. She said that she thought Barclays knew what C was up to, as he used 
to have an account with Barclays which Ms W had used once, before being asked to transfer 
money to an account of Cs with another bank.
So, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W will be disappointed to hear that I too dont think her complaint should be upheld. And 
this is for substantially the same reasons as those stated by our investigator. Ill explain why 
below.
The law provides that where a customer has authorised a transaction on their account, the 
bank is required to make that transfer. And the customer will be liable for it. Banks also owe 
a duty of care to their customers to look after their interests and, where possible, protect 
them from being scammed out of their money. On the facts of this case, Im afraid that this 
isnt a situation where I think Barclays could have done more to protect Ms W.
Ms W started doing business with C in early 2017. And it appears she bought tickets from 
him for the rest of 2017. During 2017 and 2018, Ms W received quite a few refunds from C. 
So, to her, it seems to have appeared that she had a normal business relationship with him. 
She doesnt seem to have suspected she was being scammed until December 2018, when 
she did some research into C online, and then complained to Barclays.
When Ms W first paid C from her Barclays account, she set him up as a new payee. She 
says that she first paid C through an account he had with Barclays on 1 May 2017. But was 
then asked to pay another bank he used going forward. She thinks Barclays must have 
closed the account C had with it, having become aware of the scam.
Weve requested details of the transfers into Cs account with that other bank. And it appears 
that Ms W had made at least one payment to it on 10 April 2017 for £216.  That was prior to 
when Ms W told us shed been asked by C to pay that bank. This payment also looks like it 
came from another account in her name, possibly with another bank  but not her Barclays 
account. So, it looks to me like Ms W was also using accounts with banks other than 
Barclays to pay C. That may be why she thinks shes lost more money than Barclays has 
records for.
Ms W thinks that Barclays knew about Cs scams and will have received claims from other 
customers in May 2017. So, she thinks that it should have stopped her making these 
payments going forward. But theres no evidence that Barclays was aware of Cs activities. 
Ms W had already started paying Cs account with another bank before she thinks Barclays 
should have intervened. And from the movements on Ms Ws account after that, there was 
nothing that would have indicated she was being scammed.
Banks like Barclays have mechanisms designed to spot potentially fraudulent activity on a 
customers account. But Im satisfied that here these transactions will have looked to 
Barclays to be normal activity for Ms W. She was involved in ticket re-selling herself. And 
there were lots of account movements for similar sums to those that Ms W says she was 
scammed out of.
Ms W has said that she wants to be refunded the full amount that she transferred to C. She 
says this is about £27,000. But Barclays has shown that only £21,000 was paid from her 
bank account with it. And almost £12,000 of that was refunded by C. Ms W also received 
some of the tickets she bought from C, although shes been unable to tell us to which 
payments those related, how many she received and how much she sold them on to her 
customers for. So, whilst I was very sorry to hear that Ms W has suffered a loss, it doesnt 
appear that the money that she lost from her Barclays account was nearly as much as shes 
asked it to pay back to her.
Ms W is also concerned that the third-party bank account to which she made the payments 
was completely cleared out by C. She thinks that this is a clear sign that he was scamming 
customers and that this should have put Barclays on notice that something fraudulent was 
going on. I appreciate the point that Ms W is making. But Barclays would not have had 
access to that information from the third-party bank until such time as it attempted to recover 
her money. And then it was told there was no money left in the account. This was also 
almost a year after shed last made payments to C, as Ms W didnt inform Barclays that she 
thought shed been scammed until December 2018.
When Ms W reported the scam to Barclays, it tried to get the funds back, as I would have 
expected it to. And thats when it found that there was no more money there. So, I dont think 
it did anything wrong in that regard either.
I appreciate that this is a horrible thing to have happened to Ms W. But I dont think Barclays 
could have known about Cs activities in advance of Ms W telling it. C clearly had accounts 
with more than one bank. And the activities on Ms Ws account will have looked relatively normal to Barclays. So, I dont think its done anything wrong by not refunding her the money 
that she lost.
Barclays did pay Ms W £100 for its failure to update her during its investigation. I think that 
was fair compensation for those service failures.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint. And I dont require that Barclays 
Bank UK Plc needs to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman