DRN-3901300
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc did not stop text alerts when he asked them to, and they 
have provided him with poor customer service. 
What happened
Mr M has a bank account with TSB which was set up to receive text alerts. Mr M contacted 
TSB to ask them to stop these text alerts. He says hes asked TSB at least on 20 occasions 
to stop the text alerts over the phone, in branch and via the online application (app) and hes 
been told they have removed the service, only for him to receive texts regarding his balance, 
which is distressing for him. Mr M made a complaint to TSB.
TSB said a review of Mr Ms account confirms that in late March, he asked for an incorrect 
number to be removed and it appeared they failed to act upon this as it was an 
administration error on their part. They said he had now opted out of receiving any text 
alerts, which meant no messages will be sent to any number regarding the account balance. 
They credited Mr M £25 to his account as an apology for what happened. Mr M brought his 
complaint to our service as he still kept receiving text messages about his balance. He also 
said he had asked for a Subject Access Request (SAR), but he hadnt received this yet.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. She said although TSB confirmed theyd turned 
off his text alerts, Mr M is still receiving texts. She said from the online chats, its also clear 
this situation was extremely frustrating for Mr M and that he was vulnerable as he mentioned 
his health issues to TSB. Our investigator said she didnt think TSB treated this matter with 
any urgency which added to Mr Ms stress. She concluded that TSB should pay Mr M an 
additional £225 compensation. TSB did not agree to our investigators view of the complaint, 
so the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
TSB systems show that they received Mr Ms SAR on 2 August 2022. Theres no notes 
showing on the system prior to this date that he requested the SAR. Thats not to say that Mr 
M didnt raise this prior to this date  as I have heard him mention this on the call on 29 July 
2022, it just shows that this is the date they received Mr Ms SAR. TSB system notes show 
that they issued the SAR on 22 August 2022 so Mr M should have received this information.
Ive considered what happened regarding the text alerts. Its clear that Mr M asked TSB to 
turn these off on several occasions. I asked TSB to contact their technical team to find out 
why the alerts were being turned back on despite the instruction to turn these off. The 
technical team have admitted that there was a technical issue which caused this. And this 
does not appear to be restricted to Mr Ms account. They have confirmed that a permanent 
fix for this issue was implemented on 7 September 2022. 
Mr M may have received texts after this date, because the system was showing the text 
alerts as active (due to the system issues), but TSB have confirmed to me they have now 
cancelled the alerts and they have confirmed to me that the text alert will not re-enable 
again. So because of the permanent fix, Im confident that this issue should not happen 
again for Mr M. While he will have been told several times by TSB that it wont happen 
again, this was before the permanent fix was in place.
I know Mr M was concerned that an individual may have been turning these alerts back on 
after he has turned them off, and a call handler told him the system couldnt turn the alerts 
on, which lead Mr M to feel someone is vindictively winding him up and is doing this on 
purpose, but the evidence Ive seen supports this was a system technical issue  and the 
issue not restricted to Mr M, which should now be resolved. 
But this doesnt take away from the impact this issue had on Mr M. I have read the chat 
messages that he has had with TSB. Ive also listened to two calls that hes had with TSB 
call handlers. And its clear the significant impact that this issue has had on Mr M.
Ive read and listened to what Mr M has said about his health issues. And he has also made 
TSB aware of these issues. So they were aware of the impact that this issue had on Mr M. 
And although they offered to Mr M to update his profile with his health conditions, Im not 
persuaded they have recognised the impact this issue had on him.
I say this as Mr M raised this issue in March 2022, and while TSB wrote to him on 12 April 
2022 stating you have now opted out of receiving any text alerts. This means no messages 
will be sent to any number regarding the account balance. But the text alerts were switched 
on. Mr M was significantly inconvenienced by having to get in contact with TSB over different 
channels such as the branch and the chat to try and get this resolved. And while at times he 
was told this service was turned off, it appears that nobody took ownership to escalate the 
issue, despite the numerous requests from Mr M to stop the alerts.
TSB have provided me evidence of the text alert service being turned off. This shows that 
between 22 March-29 July 2022 that the text alert service had been cancelled 11 times. So 
this would indicate that Mr M was in touch with TSB multiple times for this to be cancelled. 
Its clear from the chat messages and the phone calls that Ive seen/listened to that Mr M 
has been able to demonstrate the distress this issue has had on him. So for him to keep 
being inconvenienced to have to contact TSB when he receives further texts would only add 
to the distress he suffered from here.
Ive considered the compensation that has been paid. TSB paid Mr M £25 in April. But the 
issue was not resolved here. The text alert was turned off a further ten times after the date of 
the April final response letter to 29 July. Mr M spent a lot of time having to keep informing 
TSB that the text alerts were still on which would have been a significant inconvenience to 
anybody, regardless of their health conditions. And he was caused a lot of distress when he 
kept receiving another text message after he was told the service had been switched off.
So Im not persuaded that the impact that the system error had on Mr M has been 
recognised. From when this was first reported, it took nearly six months for a permanent fix 
to be in place. And no one appears to have communicated to Mr M that this was a system 
issue and it was being looked into. This resulted in him spending several months to try and 
rectify the issue.
It may be that the staff were not aware this was a system issue, but if someone had took ownership, or managed to escalate this to the technical team, then Im persuaded the 
technical team would have been able to confirm  just like they did to me  that this was an 
issue and while the fix may not have been in place until September, it may have given Mr M 
some peace of mind that nobody was intentionally turning on the text alerts after he had 
asked for them to be turned off. 
Our investigator suggested that TSB pay Mr M an extra £225 compensation for what 
happened. Im satisfied that this is fair. I say this because Mr M was inconvenienced multiple 
times over a period of a number of months. The distress this was causing him was clear 
from the chat messages alone, not to mention him detailing the impact this had on him in the 
phone calls Ive listened to. And Mr M has mentioned his numerous branch visits. While 
there are no notes on the system of these visits  as branch staff would not need to leave a 
note on the system with each interaction, Ive no reason to doubt what Mr M has said here. 
He has detailed multiple chats with the branch manager, and he relayed this information to 
the chat and phone agents. So Im satisfied that he has visited the branch about this issue 
multiple times. So it follows Ill be asking TSB to put things right.
Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested that TSB pays Mr M an extra £225 compensation to total 
£250 compensation which I think is reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc should pay Mr M an additional £225 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman