DRN-2685388
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked and 
closed its account. 
Mr H is a director of M and brings the complaint on its behalf. He complains Barclays 
damaged the business of M by blocking and closing its accounts. He says this caused M to 
collapse and also caused him and his family unnecessary stress and worry for which they 
should be compensated. 
What happened
In mid-October 2019 Barclays blocked Ms account. The bank removed the balance of the 
account and showed the account as overdrawn by half a million pounds.
Mr H discovered that his account was blocked and overdrawn when he went into a branch to 
make a payment which was declined. Mr H believed Ms account had been compromised 
and asked the bank for an explanation. Barclays told Mr H that it had placed Ms account 
under review. And as part of the banks review process it had shown Ms account as being 
overdrawn. But this didnt mean the account was actually overdrawn or Ms account had 
been compromised in anyway.
Barclays completed its review on 31 October 2019 and removed the block on Ms account 
that day. Shortly afterwards Barclays decided it wanted to end their relationship with M and 
sent notice to close the account. The bank also returned Ms balance, which Mr H withdrew 
on 1 November 2019. 
Mr H asked us to investigate his complaint. He said the block and closure of Ms account 
had caused his business to collapse. And he has been unable to open business accounts 
with other banks, which he believes is as a result of Barclays actions. Mr H says the review 
caused him and his family severe financial difficulties and stress as he was unable to pay his 
mortgage, council tax and other important bills. So, he wants Barclays to pay compensation.
One of our investigators reviewed Ms complaint. She thought Barclays hadnt done anything 
wrong. She said theyd acted in line with their legal and regulatory obligations and didnt had 
done so in line with the account terms.
Mr H disagreed and asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. So, the 
matter had been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr H has told us and the bank that he feels very strongly about his 
complaint. Ive read and considered all of Mr Hs submissions regarding his complaint, but Ill 
concentrate on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think it is the right outcome. 
I appreciate that Mr H is upset that Barclays blocked and closed Ms account. I can also 
understand that this was no doubt stressful for him especially as the banks actions made it 
difficult for him to manage his finances and support his family. But for me to uphold this 
complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank has done something wrong. And in this case, I 
dont think it has. Ill explain why.
account review and block
I understand Mr H feels Barclays should have told him that Ms account was being reviewed 
and why Ms accounts were blocked  instead of Mr H discovering Ms account was 
overdrawn by half a million pounds due to a review being conducted. And I want to make it 
clear that I understand why what happened concerned Mr H. And Ive no doubt it wouldve 
come as quite a shock to Mr H. But Barclays has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers, including 
accounts held by businesses. And to fulfil these obligations they may need to review activity 
taking place on accounts  by not doing so they could risk serious sanctions and penalties.
Barclays has said that Mr Hs access to Ms account was blocked to meet these 
requirements. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied first of all that Barclays was 
within its rights to review Ms account and that it was entitled to block it while it carried out 
that review. So, I cant say the bank did anything wrong. The bank also wasnt obliged to tell 
Mr H why it was carrying out a review, and I dont believe it would be appropriate for me to 
require it to do so.
Looking at the terms of the account they permit Barclays to restrict access to accounts. So, 
although I understand not having access to Ms accounts may have caused financial losses 
and inconvenience to M, this is not something for which Im asking Barclays to pay 
compensation.
I understand Mr H and his family may have been caused a lot of worry. I see why an account 
showing a half a million pound negative balance would be quite a shock. But the loss I must 
investigate here is that experienced by M, a limited company. M is the complainant and a 
distinct legal entity separate to the people that run it because it is incorporated M cannot 
itself have experienced the stress and worry suffered by Mr H and his family, so I wont be 
directing Barclays to pay compensation for this. 
account closure
I then turn to the banks decision to close Ms account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Barclays closed Ms account with two months notice. So, it was entitled to close the account 
as it has already done. 
Mr H has provided evidence that since Barclays closed Ms account, he has been unable to 
open business accounts with at least two other banks. Mr H believes this is as a result of Barclays actions. But Ive not seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude this to be 
the case. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient for M when Barclays blocked and closed 
its account. And didnt release funds held in the account. So, I realise Mr H will be 
disappointed by my decision. But it wouldnt be appropriate to make an award of 
compensation for that, since I dont believe Barclays acted inappropriately in taking the 
actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman