DRN-3355746
The complaint
Mr H complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money incorrectly failed his attempt at
answering security questions on his account, which led to a block on his credit card and they
gave him poor customer service.
What happened
Mr H had two Virgin credit cards. He rang Virgin to cancel both of them. After going through
the security questions on his first card, Virgin informed Mr H that he had not passed the
security questions on his account, even though Mr H says he answered them correctly.
Virgin told Mr H he would need to call back to access his account.
On the same call, the call handler completed the security checks on the other credit card Mr
H had with Virgin. The call handler told Mr H he had passed those checks and said that his
second card was now cancelled.
Mr H rang Virgin again to cancel the first card. He says he was asked the same security
questions as before and he was told again that he had failed security. The call handler
explained that he would need to speak to their security team in order to access his account.
Mr H spoke to another call handler, who he says was rude and unhelpful. The call handler
explained to Mr H that access to the Virgin mobile application and his account access had
been blocked and that the only way the block could be lifted is if Mr H sent them
identification. Mr H says that he tried to explain to the call handler that he had answered the
same security questions successfully for his second credit card, but despite his protests, the
call handler kept repeating that Mr H needed to send them identification to remove the
blocks. Mr H raised a complaint with Virgin.
Mr H completed a form on the Virgin Money website to try and cancel the card, but he
received an email from Virgin for him to contact them. Mr H rang them, only to be told again
that he still needed to send identification to them. Mr H says he was told he would also need
to provide a utility bill, which he says he wasnt told on the previous call. Mr H sent the
required identification and gave Virgin a call a week later.
Mr H was told by Virgin that the correct department hadnt received his identification yet and
he was instructed to wait an additional three days. Mr H called back Virgin after this
timeframe, where he was told they had cancelled his credit card. Mr H says the call handler
was able to confirm that the question hed failed on previous security checks was his landline
telephone number. But the answer Virgin had for this question was his previous mobile
number. Mr H says he had provided them with his new landline telephone number in
January 2021, only a couple of months earlier than when he tried to close his accounts in
March 2021.
Mr H contacted Virgin, where he was told the information he asked them to add to his file
regarding his previous conversation, hadnt been added to his file. The call handler also
informed Mr H that his credit card hadnt actually been closed down as there was a separate
marker on the account which should have been removed previously, which was preventing
the account from being closed. This marker was on his account prior to the events of Mr Hs
complaint. The call handler said they would remove the marker for Mr H. He then received
an email two days later, confirming that his account had been closed.
Mr H says that he had a lack of response regarding his complaint and he had to chase this
up on several occasions. Mr H informed Virgin of his mental health conditions and explained
how the lack of response was affecting him, but Mr H says that he received indifferent
responses from Virgin. Mr H brought his complaint to our service.
Virgin partially upheld Mr Hs complaint and sent him a cheque for £200. They agreed that
Mr H had received poor customer service on a number of occasions and apologised for any
anxiety or distress caused by their errors. Mr H felt the compensation offered did not reflect
the impact the errors had on him, so he wanted to continue with his complaint with our
service.
Our investigator felt that the £200 that Virgin had offered Mr H was fair for the multiple errors
which had been made and was in line with what he would have awarded Mr H if Virgin had
not upheld his complaint. Mr H asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint as he said
there were too many examples of bad customer service for the £200 compensation to be
adequate. He said these errors had exacerbated his health conditions. Mr H commented on
a reward scheme he was entitled to when he held the account and said that to his
knowledge, the points weren't added to his account, so he would appreciate Virgin
honouring those also.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of points to both Virgin and this service and Ive considered and
read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
I must explain to Mr H that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated
activity and as such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how Virgin have
investigated his complaint, such as time delays dont come under my powers to consider.
Mr H has also mentioned about the rewards programme he was part of with one of his credit
cards, which he doesnt believe points were added to his account. But as this was not part of
his original complaint, Im unable to look into the merits of this here. Mr H will need to raise a
separate complaint with Virgin to address this issue if he wants to. So Ill just be looking at
the merits of his original complaint here.
Im persuaded that Virgin have let Mr H down with multiple service issues here. For example,
they have they told him incorrect information, such as his account being closed when it
wasnt - due to a dispute flag not being removed at the time it shouldve been. They also
didnt update his landline on both accounts when he informed them of his new number,
which ultimately caused Mr H to incorrectly fail security on one of his accounts. And they
have provided poor customer service on several occasions.
I can also understand Mr Hs confusion as to why he was able to talk about his other
account, once he had failed security, and then not being able to discuss his first account
when the call handler had verified that it was him.Ive taken into account that the staff have followed Virgins security process in how theyve
dealt with him after they thought he had answered the landline question incorrectly, so while
Im persuaded that they were only doing their job when they believed that someone had
failed security, there are ways which they could have better explained this to Mr H. As Virgin
have already acknowledged, they were disappointed to hear about how Mr H was let down
by the security call handler, who Mr H had described as obstructive, rude, and unhelpful.
Ive also read about what Mr H has said about his health issues. While I wont discuss these
here, I can assure Mr H Ive read everything hes said about how the events have impacted
him. So I understand why this is important to him.
So Ive considered what would be a fair amount of compensation for Mr H here for Virgin
letting down Mr H on a number of occasions. As Ive mentioned previously, Im unable to
consider how Virgin have handled his complaint, so I cant factor that into any compensation,
but I can look at the other events here.
Compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business
has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer
over and above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend
compensation, it is often modest and within our established guidelines.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr H has that the compensation he was offered is too
low based on the number of errors Virgin have made, which have exasperated his health
conditions. I know Mr H will disagree with me, but Im persuaded that the level of
compensation that Virgin offered was fair.
I say this as Virgins compensation is in line with what I broadly could have awarded him
based on his personal circumstances at the time if Virgin had not upheld his complaint. So
Im persuaded that the £200 Virgin sent him was reasonable based on the multiple times
they let him down and for the inconvenience and distress Mr H suffered here. It took 15
working days (not considering weekends and Easter bank holidays) from when he phoned
Virgin originally on 30 March 2021, to close his account until 23 April 2021, when he
received an email confirming his account had been closed.
Ive also considered that as the cheque Virgin had issued was in June 2021, so if it has not
been successfully banked, it will likely have expired. So while it follows I dont intend to ask
Virgin to do anything further to resolve the complaint, as Im persuaded the compensation
was fair for the reasons Ive already given, if the cheque hasnt been successfully banked,
then Ill require them to send Mr H a replacement cheque for £200. It would be advisable for
Virgin to cancel the original cheque.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr H responded and he said while he was disappointed with my findings, he would 
accept the provisional decision. Virgin did not respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. My final decision
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has already made an offer to pay £200 to
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay £200 by 
cheque to Mr H (only if he hasnt already successfully banked it). But I dont require them to 
do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman