DRN-2513247
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Barclays Bank Plc has added costs incurred by Law of Property 
Act Receivers (LPARs) to his mortgage account. Mr T says the charges are excessive and 
unfair. 
  
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Mr T has three buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages with Barclays which are the subject of this 
complaint. Unfortunately Mr T and his wife found themselves unable to work, as a result of 
which they utilised the rental income from the BTL mortgages to support their residential 
mortgage on their home. As a result, the BTL mortgages fell into arrears and, in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account, Barclays appointed LPARs.
This complaint, one of several brought by Mr T about his BTL mortgage accounts, is about 
the costs incurred by the LPARs, which Barclays has added to the mortgage accounts. Mr T 
says these are excessive and unfair and he is unhappy that theyve been added to the 
balances of his mortgage accounts without him having the opportunity to challenge them.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint so an investigator looked at it. In a very detailed letter 
dated 17 December 2020 the investigator explained that Barclays was entitled to add fees 
and charges to the account under the terms and conditions. The investigator reviewed all the 
invoices provided by Barclays as well as insurance schedules. Having done so, she noted 
that there were several LPAR charges where no invoices had been provided.
As a result, the investigator thought Barclays should reimburse those charges paid to the 
LPARs where there were no invoices in support. 
These were as follows on the three separate BTL mortgage accounts:
Property 1 £    746.20 and £313.49
Property 2 £    503.32
Property 3 £ 2,575.35
The investigator also asked Barclays to pay Mr T compensation of £100 for trouble and 
upset.
Barclays asked for more time to locate the invoices for the fees it had been asked to remove 
from the accounts, but ultimately wasnt able to trace these. The bank asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
Mr T also didnt agree with the investigators findings. In particular, he reiterated his 
concerns that he didnt think the charges were fair or reasonable and gave an example of a 
fee of £90 charged by the LPARs for checking whether a property had a gas supply, when it 
did not.
As the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to say that I am very sorry to note that Mr T and his wife have had a 
prolonged period of financial difficulty and ill health. I am sure this has been a very stressful 
time for them. Bearing that in mind, I have no desire to add to Mr Ts distress any further, 
but, after reviewing this complaint, I know my decision will be disappointing for him.
The account terms and conditions provide that Barclays is entitled to add the costs incurred 
by third parties to the mortgage account. This includes costs incurred by third parties, such 
as solicitors, insurers and LPARs. 
Im aware that Mr T considers the costs claimed by the LPARs to be excessive. I dont have 
any power to consider this, because the LPARs are not covered by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. If Mr T is unhappy about the amount the LPARs have charged, hell 
need to take this up with them.
Ive reviewed the list of charges added for all three properties. I agree with the investigator 
that Barclays was entitled to add these, where there are invoices in support. I also agree 
with the investigator that where there are no invoices, the charges should not be applied. 
  
Putting things right
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that the following fees and charges identified by the 
investigator (plus any interest applied to them) should be removed from the BTL accounts:
Property 1 £    746.20 and £313.49
Property 2 £    503.32
Property 3 £ 2,575.35
The refunds should be backdated for interest purposes.
I would add a caveat that, in the event that Barclays is able to locate invoices for those 
charges, I find that the bank will be entitled to re-debit the charges to the mortgage accounts.Im satisfied that Barclays should also pay Mr T compensation for trouble and upset. I think 
the £100 recommended by the investigator is fair, reasonable and proportionate.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr T was hoping for. As the investigator and I have 
explained, we cant look at the actions of the LPARs, and I do understand how frustrating 
this is for Mr T and how unfair it must seem to him. But the LPARs are, by virtue of s.109(2) 
of the Law of Property Act 1925, considered to be Mr Ts agents not Barclays, and so they 
dont fall within the remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In settlement, I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to 
remove the fees and charges identified above (but with the proviso that the bank can re-
debit these to the account if it is able to locate the invoices for those charges). I also direct 
Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Mr T compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience. I 
make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman