DRN-4089999
The complaint
Mr E has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LVs) handling 
of a claim he made under his home insurance policy.
What happened
There has been extensive background to this complaint which I dont intend to repeat in full 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key issues in dispute which I need to decide. This isnt 
meant as a discourtesy to either party, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and 
my role within it.
But to briefly summarise, Mr E is unhappy with the time it took for LV to settle a claim he 
made for fire damage to his home in March 2021. Mr E is unhappy with LVs loss adjusters 
handling of things. This includes a failure to provide key information and information 
promised, a failure to ensure the claim progressed in a timely manner and a failure to 
appropriately manage the various contractors involved. Mr E also says that the loss adjuster 
used bullying tactics to force him to accept works or settlements he wasnt happy with, 
thereby failing to protect LVs duty of care to Mr E as its customer.
LV accepts that the claim took longer than it ought to have to resolve. It says Mr E wasnt 
able to move back into his home until around four months after the original anticipated date, 
however it also said there were some delays which werent avoidable. LV also accepts that 
the loss adjuster took too long to share information requested by Mr E and could have taken 
more ownership of the claim journey overall. However, it did not agree there was evidence of 
the loss adjuster behaving inappropriately or failing in any duty of care. To recognise where 
it accepted its service had fallen short, LV offered Mr E £600 compensation for the impact of 
its errors.
Remaining unhappy, Mr E referred his complaint to our service where it was considered by 
one of our investigators. She agreed that LVs overall level of service had fallen short, and 
that Mr E had been unduly impacted by the delays, communication issues and an overall 
lack of ownership taken by the loss adjuster. But having considered all the circumstances, 
she said LVs offer of £600 was in line with awards our service would typically make in 
situations similar to Mr Es, and that it was fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of Mr Es claim and complaint.
Mr E didnt accept our investigators opinion. So as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr E, I agree with 
our investigators conclusions. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that the claim took longer than anticipated to deal with, or that LV (either 
directly or by extension, the loss adjuster) are responsible for some of the unreasonable or 
unnecessary delays. However, I can see there have also been several unforeseen and 
unavoidable delays, such as:
The severity of contamination caused by the damaged oil containers and the time 
needed to decontaminate.
Decontamination works being slightly delayed due to COVID-19.
The tender process being extended due to the withdrawal of one of the tendering 
contractors.
Mr Es request to change the internal layout of the property (albeit initially suggested 
as an option by the loss adjuster) and the time taken to obtain engineer drawings and 
planning permission for these changes.
Discussions over the reasons behind the change to the type of flooring suggested by 
the engineer.
From everything Ive seen, I dont think LV has been solely responsible for all the delays in 
this claim. However, its clear that there were some unreasonable delays, and that Mr E has 
been unfairly impacted by these. The result of this being that Mr E wasnt able to move back 
into his home until around four months later than he ought to have been if things had run 
smoothly, and around 18 months after the date of claim. During this time, he was living in a 
static caravan (purchased for his use by LV) on his neighbours land. And while I appreciate 
the choice of alternative accommodation was made by Mr E, this additional, unnecessary 
time in those conditions would clearly have been distressing and inconvenient.
LV has already acknowledged and accepted all of the above. It says it usually considers an 
amount of £100 per month for each month of unreasonable delay to be fair in these 
circumstances. And I agree with our investigator that an award of that nature isnt out of line 
with what Id expect to see in similar circumstances. 
LV also added a further £200 to the four months worth of delays it accepted it was 
responsible for, taking the total compensation to £600. But Mr E disputes that the delays 
only amount to four months on the basis he was told the works should take 12 months from 
April 2021, but actually took until the end of September 2022  and were still not fully 
completed at the point of his complaint to our service.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Es position here. But while I can see that the loss adjuster 
initially estimated around 12 months, this was before any detailed investigations, 
excavations or demolition had taken place. So, I dont consider it unfair or unreasonable that 
some additional time was required. Ultimately, I think LVs approach of compensating for the 
four-month period between the estimated date Mr E could return to his property and the 
actual date it was deemed to be habitable again, to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances here. 
And I also consider that the additional £200 it offered is sufficient to compensate for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr E suffered as a result of the loss adjusters poor handling of 
matters, such as not providing information in good time or effectively managing the various 
parties to minimise the delays. But like LV and our investigator, Ive not seen any additional 
evidence to support Mr Es allegations of bullying tactics from the loss adjuster.I know Mr E is unhappy that the initial tendered value was much lower than the amount 
ultimately needed to complete the repairs. He feels this was done on purpose to keep the 
offer of cash settlement, made at the time, low. But Ive seen no evidence of any malpractice 
here. Given the number of variations made throughout the claim journey, including the 
decision to change the layout of the property, and the well-publicised increasing cost of 
building materials throughout 2021 and 2022, I dont find it surprising that the final costs 
came in higher than initially predicted.
I also know Mr E felt the loss adjuster treated him unfairly when suggesting certain costs 
associated with the removal of contents be applied to his buildings cover instead. But it 
appears this was done because of a potential risk of contents underinsurance, which would 
have been financially detrimental to Mr E. So actually, I think this is an example of the loss 
adjuster putting Mr Es interests first, rather than making up rules to suit himself as 
suggested by Mr E.
Finally, Mr E has also raised concerns about issues with the condition of his property when 
he moved back in, queried the amount of disturbance allowance paid to him (a figure paid to 
recognise the financial impact of him staying in temporary accommodation before the 
purchase of the caravan, stated to have been agreed at £10 per day per adult), and the loss 
adjuster failing to provide him a breakdown of the costs he saved in not having some parts of 
the property reinstated, which were due to be paid to Mr E to help pay for lost items.
As I understand it, these issues are currently being dealt with by LV under a separate open 
complaint. These issues were not included in Mr Es initial complaint to LV or in its final 
response letter to him. Because of this, Im unable to comment on or answer these issues as 
part of this decision. However, should Mr E remain unhappy with LVs final response to the 
separate complaint, hell be able to refer those concerns to our service as a new complaint, 
subject to our normal rules. 
In summary, I agree that LVs claim handling and the overall level of service Mr E received 
fell short of his reasonable expectations. However, I think LVs apology and the offer of 
compensation made in its final response letter are sufficient to fairly resolve Mr Es 
complaint. So, it follows that Ill not be recommending it do anything further under this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman