DRN-1620213
 
The complaint
Miss Y complains the exchange rate she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
differed from the exchange rate she received when the payment arrived into her bank 
account.
What happened
Miss Y was expecting an international payment from her parents and she telephoned 
Barclays to obtain the exchange rate she would get. During the telephone call the Barclays 
member of staff advised her of the rate at the time, but when the payment credited her bank 
account the rate she received was different to that quoted to her. As a result, she received 
almost £400 less than she had expected. Miss Y then complained to Barclays.
Barclays says that the rate discussed with Miss Y over the telephone was an indicative rate 
that can change throughout the day and this was explained to Miss Y during the phone call. 
Barclays says this is also made clear in their personal account terms and conditions. 
Miss Y was unhappy with Barclays decision and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at the information available to her but didnt uphold Miss Ys 
complaint. She felt, having listened to the phone call between Barclays and Miss Y, it was 
made clear that the rate was a mid-market indication rate and wouldnt be the rate Miss Y 
would get when the international payment came through to her bank account. 
Miss Y was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the case to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering this complaint, I have considered whether Barclays had misled Miss Y 
when they discussed the exchange rate with her. 
I can understand that it would be frustrating for Miss Y to see the amount credited to her 
bank account was less than she had thought. I can see from the information provided the 
exchange rate Miss Y received differed from the exchange rate she discussed with Barclays 
during their telephone conversation.
I have listened to the telephone call between Miss Y and Barclays member of staff as this is 
central to Miss Ys complaint. Having done so I am satisfied that Barclays member of staff 
did make it clear the exchange rate for the funds expected into her account was indicative. 
During the call the member of Barclays staff initially gave the exchange rate to buy rather 
than receive the international payment but then quickly corrected this.  The member of staff 
said she would obtain the exchange rate for her, at this point in the call the Barclays member 
of staff says that the exchange rate wouldnt be the rate Miss Y would receive as this was an 
indication as the rate is constantly changing. 
During the call Miss Y was given the opportunity to open a currency account which would 
mean the funds could be received in the currency being sent. Miss Y says at this point that 
she didnt have the time to do this.  Miss Y was then given the exchange rate, after the 
Barclays member of staff referred this to one of her colleagues, and she was advised at that 
time of the charges that were applicable. 
I have also seen a copy of Barclays terms and conditions for personal customers, which also 
confirms that the exchange rate is only applicable at the time of receipt of monies into the 
bank account.
I am satisfied that while Miss Y may have thought the exchange rate discussed with 
Barclays member of staff was the exchange rate she would receive. But Barclays did make it 
clear in the conversation this exchange rate was only indicative and as they explained to her, 
it is live and constantly changing and would be dependent on when the monies arrived. 
While Miss Y will be disappointed with my decision, it follows that I wont be asking anymore 
of Barclays. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman