DRN-1501369
 
The complaint
Mr B says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
 What happened
This complaint is about 22 instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr B between October 2015 
and March 2018. Mr B borrowed amounts ranging between £150 and £500 to be repaid in 
six monthly instalments. There were no significant breaks in Mr Bs borrowing. Sometimes 
his loans overlapped so that he had to make more than one repayment a month. Mr B didnt 
repay all his loans and the debt was sold on. Sunny offered redress for loans 19 onwards, 
but Mr B was unhappy with that. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Bs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan 4 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Sunny then offered redress in keeping with what wed require for 
an upheld complaint for loans 15 onwards. Mr B didnt respond to this offer though he had 
rejected earlier offers Sunny had made. So the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether 
Mr B could sustainably repay his/her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Sunny asked Mr B for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out credit 
checks. Mr B said his monthly income was between £2,300 and £3,056. He said his monthly 
outgoings were between £1.250 and £2,320. I cant see that Sunnys credit checks found 
any adverse information that should have prompted further checks. 
For loans one to three, given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time and his history with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Mr B provided or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Mr B was saying. The loan repayments looked affordable for Mr B. So I cant 
say it was wrong for Sunny to have provided loans one to three. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loan four would most likely have 
shown that Mr B was struggling to repay his previous loans:
 
By loan four, Mr B had borrowed the same amount three times shortly after repaying 
his previous loans. 
It looked like Mr B was having to borrow again to meet the shortfall the previous 
repayment left in his finances
 
So I think there was a significant risk that Mr B would be unable to sustainably repay loan 
four, or any subsequent loans. And I think Sunny was wrong to have provided loans four 
onwards. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr B, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
six. I say this because:By loan six, the pattern of Mr Bs borrowing showed that he was persistently reliant 
on short term loans. Hed taken six loans in five months and the amount borrowed 
stayed the same. 
From loan six onwards Mr B was provided with a new loan within days or weeks of 
settling a previous one or whilst previous ones were still running. So Sunny ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mr B was having to borrow further to cover 
the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Bs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 22 was 
taken out 29 months after Mr Bs first. Mr B had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
 
I think that Mr B lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 22 and I think Sunny should put things 
right.  
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr B, I think Sunny should:
buy back any sold on debt or liaise with the purchaser to achieve the results below;
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 4 to 22; 
offset this refund against any balance of principal still outstanding and pay Mr B the 
remainder; or, if a balance remains owing, agree an affordable repayment plan to 
clear this;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 4 and 5 from Mr Bs credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 to 22 should be removed from Mr 
Bs credit file when any outstanding balance is settled.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. I require Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Mr B 
compensation as set out above. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman