DRN-3801397
The complaint
Mr P complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited failed to complete the transfer of his 
pension savings to a new provider in a timely manner. 
What happened
Mr P held pension savings with Standard Life. He had previously received advice and 
support on those pension savings from a financial advisor. In September 2020 Mr P decided 
to transfer his pension savings to a new provider that I will call H. Mr P was aware that it is 
generally quicker to complete pension transfers of savings that are held in cash so he 
decided to sell his pension investments before starting the transfer. But, four of the funds in 
which Mr Ps pension savings were invested were suspended from trading at that time. So 
Mr P was unable to complete the sale to cash of all his assets.
When Standard Life received the transfer request from H, via the automated Origo Options 
system, it advised H of the suspended funds. Standard Life asked H if it would be able to 
accept an in-specie transfer for those investments. But, following a request it received from 
Mr P for an update on the transfer, Standard Life also said that it might be able to consider 
offering a partial transfer. It wrote to H, and Mr Ps financial advisor, to ask whether Mr P 
might be interested in that option.
The following day, Mr P wrote to Standard Life to say that he would like a partial transfer to 
be completed. But it seems that Standard Life then again contacted H via Origo to ask 
whether it would accept an in-specie transfer. H confirmed that it would, and asked 
Standard Life for a full valuation of Mr Ps pension investments. But in-specie transfers 
cannot be completed via the automated Origio system. So Mr P was required to complete a 
paper instruction, and H sent this to him in early November.
Those forms were completed by Mr P and provided to Standard Life in mid-November. It 
seems that Standard Life then started the process of re-registering the suspended 
investment funds. But due to the time that this was taking, as a gesture of goodwill, 
Standard Life altered its normal process and transferred the cash that Mr P held in his 
pension to H on 5 January 2021. The transfer of the remainder of the in-specie holdings, and 
some further cash Mr P had realised from the sale of one asset once its suspension had 
been lifted, completed towards the end of February.
Mr Ps complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think the delays 
to Mr Ps transfer has resulted from something that Standard Life had done wrong. So she 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr P didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr P and by Standard Life. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There were three regulated firms that had an involvement in Mr Ps transfer. Standard Life 
held Mr Ps pension savings, and so needed to transfer them to H. H was the recipient of the 
transfer. But it was responsible for acting on Mr Ps behalf in making the request of 
Standard Life, and directing the nature of the transfer (partial, cash only, in specie etc). And, 
although Mr P had made no request of the firm, Standard Life and H both made contact with 
Mr Ps financial advisor to seek clarification from Mr P of his intentions.
And I think it is important that I should reflect a little more on how the transfer process 
needed to run. It was for H to request the transfer and deal with Standard Life on Mr Ps 
behalf. Generally it wasnt appropriate for Standard Life to be instructed by Mr P since taking 
instructions in that way might mean that it transferred assets to H, that it was unable to 
accept. So Mr P was reliant on H to implement the transfer activity on his behalf.
This complaint though only deals with the actions of Standard Life. So in my decision I will 
not be making any findings about the involvement of the other firms  H and Mr Ps 
financial advisor. Whilst it might be necessary for me to refer to the actions those firms took 
in progressing the transfer I do so without any inference of fault. That is only something that 
would be considered should Mr P make a complaint about the actions of those firms.
As Mr P reasonably identified, a transfer of cash to another pension fund should be far 
simpler and quicker than a transfer involving invested assets. But unfortunately for Mr P he 
wasnt able to disinvest all of his pension savings  there were four funds in which he had 
investments on which trading was suspended. So, when H sent the first transfer request to 
Standard Life, Mr Ps pension savings were in a mixture of cash and investments. That 
meant Standard Life wasnt able to accept the initial request  for a cash only transfer - and 
needed to seek further instructions from H.
I can see that around that time Mr P himself chased Standard Life. And in response to that 
Standard Life sent an email to H, and to Mr Ps financial advisor, to explain that it might be 
able to offer a partial transfer, and just move Mr Ps cash pension savings, leaving the 
suspended investments until a later time. But I think the email Standard Life sent was very 
clear  offering a partial transfer was not within its normal practice, and any request for a 
partial transfer would be considered on a case by case basis. It was simply suggesting that 
Mr P might be able to make a request for that consideration  it was not telling him that a 
partial transfer would be approved.
Although Mr P told Standard Life that he would like a partial transfer to be considered, 
H didnt make that request. And as Ive explained above, Standard Life was reasonably reliant on H to direct the basis on which the transfer should proceed. So I dont find any fault 
in Standard Life for the possibility of a partial transfer not being explored further at that time.
The revised request that Standard Life did receive from H was for an in-specie transfer in 
regard to the four investments that Mr P had been unable to sell. I can see that Standard Life 
received that request on 20 November. Generally I would expect to see a transfer request of 
that nature be completed within a period of around three months. An in-specie transfer will 
usually take far longer than a cash transfer given the need to agree the assets being 
transferred, and arrange their re-registration with the appropriate fund managers. So I dont 
think that request  that completed in February 2021  took an unusually long time to be 
concluded.
But the main focus of Mr Ps complaint was that the majority of his pension savings were 
held in cash from around the time his initial transfer request was made in September 2020. 
And I can entirely understand why that was so disappointing for him given the investment 
returns that he might have missed out on. But as Ive explained above, a pure cash transfer 
wasnt possible due to the suspended funds. And in line with best industry practice, cash is 
generally the last asset to be transferred when an in-specie transfer is being made. That 
allows for the collection and transfer of any income payments received by the other 
investments, and for any outstanding administration fees to be settled before the transfer is 
completed.
As a gesture of goodwill, Standard Life did agree to alter its normal transfer timeline, and 
paid Mr Ps cash pension savings to H on 5 January 2021. I think that was a reasonable 
gesture in recognition of the time that the transfer had taken overall. And, in line with what 
Ive said above means that, had the transfer progressed as in-specie from the start, and the 
cash been transferred at its conclusion, there would have been little difference in when the 
cash was available in the new pension fund.
I appreciate Mr Ps frustration at the length of time this transfer took. But the overall time was 
a reflection of both the change in approach that was needed when the suspended 
investments were identified, and the natural time it takes for two different firms to undertake 
the necessary administrative steps at each stage of the transfer process. I havent seen 
anything that makes me think Standard Life was responsible for any undue delays at any 
stage of the end to end transfer process. Ultimately it was Mr Ps decision to sell the majority 
of his pension investments before the transfer had been agreed. So I dont think 
Standard Life is responsible for any lost investment returns on those pension savings.
In summary, I dont think that Standard Life is responsible for any unreasonable delay in the 
transfer of Mr Ps pension savings to H. It follows that I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Standard Life Assurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman