DRN-3260715
The complaint
Ms H has complained about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G). She isnt happy 
about the way it dealt with a claim under her domestic appliance insurance policy.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Ms H made a claim in May 2020 in relation to a minor problem she had with her hob. D&G 
referred this to its repairing agent and the attempts to repair the hob were hampered by the 
fact that Ms H couldnt find a model reference on the hob.
This went on until March 2021 when Ms H had further conversations with D&G about the 
failure to repair the hob. D&G tried to appoint a different repairer but wasnt able to. Its 
original agent was the only repairer that could look at the claim, but as it wouldnt turn out 
and look at the hob without a serial number it couldnt help. D&G did suggest that Ms H 
could get the repair undertaken independently but Ms H couldnt afford to do this. So, Ms H 
complained to D&G and asked for the policy to be cancelled and for a refund of her premium 
as she couldnt claim under the policy.
D&G offered a full refund of her premium from around the time of claim. It felt that it did the 
best it could to help Ms H when it was made aware that its agent wouldnt attend Ms Hs 
property. But Ms H remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. She 
acknowledged that Ms H had difficulties advancing her claim but felt that D&G tried to help 
and its offer to refund her premium back to the date of claim was reasonable.
As Ms H didnt agree and felt that all of her premiums should be refunded, the matter has 
been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to a slightly different position to our investigator and I think the 
complaint should be upheld, Ill explain why.
Ms H told D&G about her difficulties making a claim during the early stages of notification. In 
one of the early calls Ms H also made it clear that she was having a particularly difficult time 
with her health and personal situation. I note that the call taker was extremely sympathetic 
and helpful at this time which was good.
However, this didnt solve Ms Hs problem and she clearly had real difficulty in getting what 
should have been a simple repair solved. I know D&G offered Ms H the option of getting the 
repair done herself and claiming the cost back, but she had taken the policy out for this 
reason and couldnt afford to pay herself at the time. So, I can understand why Ms H felt 
backed into a corner and cancelled the policy as she wasnt able to claim.
As the problem centred around identifying the product Ms H had, so that a simple part could 
be ordered, I cant be sure that any claim would ever have been met on this basis. I say this 
as D&G said only one of its agents could undertake the repair and that they had to have the 
serial number, and Ms H couldnt supply this as there wasnt a serial number on the hob.  
However, D&G have said that they couldve arranged for a repairing agent to call out at a 
later stage, but Ms H had cancelled the policy and received a refund of premium by then so 
it couldnt do this. But this is what should have happened in the first place and it is 
disappointing that D&G didnt just arrange this and undertake the simple repair. 
I know Ms H would like all of her premiums refunded but she was provided cover up until the 
point of this claim as Ive explained above. Im presuming that Ms H has fixed her hob by 
now. But if she hasnt I think it would be fair for D&G to send an engineer to repair the 
appliance now although Ms H would have to return her refunded premium. And I think D&G 
should compensate Ms H £150 for the clear stress and inconvenience all this caused her at 
a difficult time.
Replies and developments
Ms H didnt respond to my provisional decision and D&G said that it agreed with the position 
outlined.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view this complaint should be upheld for the reasons outlined 
above. 
I dont propose to go over the details of the complaint again as D&G has accepted the 
position outlined and Ms H hasnt responded or provided any further comment. 
As such, I remain of the opinion that Ms H was covered until the point of claim as Ive 
explained above. It seems likely that Ms H has fixed her hob now but if she hasnt she 
remains free to ask D&G to repair it now if she is happy to return her premium. And D&G 
should pay her £150 compensation for the stress and inconvenience all this has caused. 
  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Domestic & 
General Insurance Plc to pay Ms H £150 compensation and allow Ms H to still claim under 
the policy if she is happy to return the premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman