DRN-2500723
The complaint
Mr S complains about the customer service that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) 
provided to him in relation to the transfer of some pension savings into a pension plan that 
he held with the firm. In particular he complains that the process he needed to follow was 
unclear and that Scottish Equitable were unhelpful when he asked for assistance. He says 
that he has lost out due to the costs of phone calls and printing, and the time he needed to 
spend to get the matter resolved.
What happened
Mr S has previously complained to Scottish Equitable about problems he faced accessing 
his account online in early 2020. I understand that Mr S was offered, and accepted, 
compensation in relation to those problems. So this decision will only deal with what 
happened when Mr S transferred from pension savings from another scheme to 
Scottish Equitable.
Mr S held pension savings with Scottish Equitable. In March 2020 Scottish Equitable 
received information from another pension scheme that Mr S wished to transfer some 
pension savings from that scheme to Scottish Equitable. So Scottish Equitable got in touch 
with Mr S to request his authority for the transfer to proceed.
Scottish Equitable required two pieces of information from Mr S. It needed him to complete a 
paper based form providing authority for Scottish Equitable to liaise with the other pension 
scheme about the transfer. And it needed him to complete some details online so that its 
systems could accept the transfer. The pension plan that Mr S held with Scottish Equitable 
was designed to be managed directly by Mr S or his financial advisor meaning that it was 
Mr Ss responsibility to ensure the correct details were input regarding the transfer.
Ultimately Scottish Equitable assisted Mr S via the telephone with the set-up of the transfer 
instruction. The transfer of the funds from the other scheme was received around a week 
later and added to Mr Ss pension savings with Scottish Equitable.
Mr Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think 
Scottish Equitable had done anything wrong in relation to the transfer  he thought Mr S had 
been treated patiently and politely throughout the process and given support by 
Scottish Equitable to complete the transfer process. So he didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld.
Mr S didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr S and by Scottish Equitable. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
The transfer of pension savings from one scheme to another can be complex. Different firms 
will have different requirements about what authority is needed, and the paperwork that 
needs to be completed. It is generally the receiving scheme, in this case Scottish Equitable 
that will guide the consumer to complete the transfer. So I dont think it unreasonable that 
Scottish Equitable needed more from Mr S than just the transfer instruction he provided to 
the other pension scheme.
Ive looked carefully at the emails that were sent to Mr S by Scottish Equitable whilst the 
transfer was underway. Initially Scottish Equitable wrote to Mr S because it had received 
information about the transfer from the other scheme, but not from Mr S directly. It needed 
his authority to start the transfer process. And later Scottish Equitable got in touch with Mr S 
because it needed him to set the transfer up via his online account, so that the funds due to 
be received could be successfully added to his pension account.
Generally it is for a business to determine the processes it wishes to follow in matters such 
as this. It is of course important that those processes are explained to consumers. And that 
assistance is provided when a consumer requires additional support. But it wouldnt be right 
for me to interfere in what a business considers it needs from a consumer to start, and 
process, a transfer.
It seems to me that Scottish Equitable provided Mr S with details of the paperwork it needed 
him to complete. And based on what I have said above, that paperwork appears to have 
been reasonably necessary for the transfer to be processed. I understand that Mr S might 
have found the process to be confusing, and that he didnt entirely understand what 
Scottish Equitable was asking him to do. But I dont think that was due to any unreasonable 
actions on the part of Scottish Equitable.
In order to start the transfer process Scottish Equitable needed Mr S to complete a paper 
based form  it needed his original signature in order to gain his authority to liaise with the 
other pension scheme. I can see that Scottish Equitable first sent Mr S a link so he could 
print the form for himself. That was most likely thought to be the quickest route to get the 
form to him. But when Mr S explained he didnt have access to a printer Scottish Equitable 
sent a blank copy of the form by post. I appreciate that Mr S says that copy of the form 
wasnt received. But I dont think that was as a result of something that Scottish Equitable 
did wrong  it isnt entirely uncommon for items to go missing in the post.
I have listened to the telephone call that Mr S had with Scottish Equitable when he was 
required to set up the online instruction to allow the receipt of the transfer, and its addition to 
his pension account with Scottish Equitable. Scottish Equitable needs to tread a careful line 
in calls such as these to ensure that it doesnt provide more than information about its 
products  rather than information about other firms or even advice on the benefits of any 
transfer. So I think it was reasonable that Scottish Equitable asked Mr S to do some of his 
own research to make sure that the sending pension scheme had been correctly identified.
I appreciate how frustrating Mr S found the whole transfer process. It does naturally take 
place over a number of stages. And each of those stages takes time, and perhaps different documentation needs to be completed. But Im satisfied that Scottish Equitable explained 
what Mr S needed to do at each stage, and where he sought further help this was provided 
promptly and courteously. I dont think that Scottish Equitables demands on Mr S were 
unfair or unreasonable.
So in summary I agree with our adjudicator that Scottish Equitables customer service over 
the time of the transfer met what might reasonably be expected of the firm. I dont think that 
it would be fair, or reasonable, for me to expect Scottish Equitable to meet Mr Ss costs for 
the phone calls he made seeking assistance, or in having to print the form he needed to 
complete and send into the firm. It follows that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Equitable Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman