DRN-3460426
The complaint
Ms M complains about AWP P&C SAs (AWP) standard of service and the removal of pest 
cover from her home emergency policy.
What happened
Ms M held a home emergency policy with AWP running from October 2020 for a year. She 
contacted them in April 2021 and reported an infestation. It sent a contractor who laid traps 
and poison. The contractors also advised Ms M to have some roof tiles removed to access 
the infestation in the ceiling void. 
About a week later the contractor re-attended to inspect the activity. He found that there was 
no activity to report. And the poison that had been laid, had been eaten by the pests. A 
follow-up inspection was advised to be carried out. 
Around two weeks later, a further inspection was carried out by the contractor from AWP. He 
inspected the home and drains and noted that there was no longer any activity. Ms M 
reported to the contractor that she hadnt seen nor heard any pests in over a week. The 
contractor removed all traps and bait from the property. 
In May 2021, Ms M contacted AWP to report that she could hear pest activity. It sent a 
contractor, who found evidence of an infestation and laid traps and bait within and around 
her home.  About two weeks later the contractor attended to inspect the bait and traps laid. 
He found that some of the bait had been eaten and replaced this with fresh bait. A further 
follow-up inspection was arranged for about two weeks later. 
The contractor who was sent by AWP, discussed with Ms M that he would be removing any 
old bait and closing the treatment plan down, as she hadnt reported any activity. The 
contractor noted that Ms M was happy with this course of action. 
Following on from this, AWP declined to provide further cover to Ms M regarding the 
infestation. It said that because she had made two claims within the policy year, it couldnt 
provide any further cover as this wasnt allowed under the terms of the policy. 
Ms M complained to AWP as she believed that she only had one infestation that had never 
been resolved by the contractors. She also complained that the contractors had used a 
plastic valve rather than a metal one. As she had been told this, by a contractor that she had 
to hire to resolve the infestation, that a metal valve should have been used.  
In its final response, AWP maintained that further cover couldnt be provided as Ms M had 
already claimed twice under the policy for the infestation. And the policy limit for infestations 
was two. It further said, that it contacted the contractor who attended Ms Ms property and it 
was satisfied that the information they provided, confirmed that the processes were followed 
each time, and that they had taken appropriate action when needed. The extra work that Ms 
M privately paid the contractor for, wasnt covered under the policy terms. 
Ms M was given her referral rights and referred her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
there was enough evidence to show that there had been two infestations and the policy 
didnt allow for more than two infestations. She explained that the work that Ms M privately 
contracted the AWP contractor to carry out, wasnt something that was covered under the 
terms of the policy. And it wouldnt be fair to hold AWP responsible for this work. So, there 
was nothing further she could reasonably ask it to do. 
AWP accepted the view, Ms M did not. Ms M said that there hadnt been more than one 
infestation. She also said that AWP were responsible for the contractors poor work, as it 
was them who sent the contractor to her home. And it was AWP, who told her to use the 
contractor, otherwise the cover would be withdrawn.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to Ms M, 
but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
In complaints like this, we look at whether AWP made errors in carrying out the works and 
ultimately in declining to provide cover. And if errors were made, whether it acted fairly and 
reasonably in its response and in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. 
I have considered the policy terms and conditions, as Ms M said that the infestation that she 
had was one continuous infestation. The policy said: More than two infestations during
the period of cover. AWP said that there were two distinct infestations with a few weeks 
between each one and because of this, Ms M had made all the claims that she was 
permitted, during the period of cover. 
I have thought about this and considered the contractors reports. Ms M said that a contractor 
told her that if there are large numbers of pests, it can take many weeks for them to leave, 
as they eat each other and therefore can survive. Ms M believed this to be the case here. 
AWP relied on its contractor reports. It said that the first infestation occurred from between 
April 2021 to May 2021. The reports indicate that the contractors who attended noted 
evidence of an infestation, evidence of the pests having eaten the bait that was laid. And 
finally, evidence that Ms M hadnt seen or heard any of the pests being present. This was 
supported by evidence that the bait that had been laid hadnt been disturbed. 
AWP said that the second infestation that Ms M reported was around 2 weeks later in May 
2021 until June 2021, when again the reports from the contractor confirmed that there was 
an infestation. And the infestation could no longer be detected by Ms M and the treatment 
plan was closed. 
I asked Ms M for any expert evidence that supported her view that the infestation was one 
continuous event. She did not provide this. In the absence of any contrary expert evidence 
from Ms M, that could support her account that the infestation was one continuous 
contamination, Im persuaded by the expert reports from AWP. The reports confirmed that 
the infestation had stopped from April to May 2021. And re-started in May 2021 until June 
2021. So, I think that AWP were reasonable to inform Ms M, that no further cover was 
permitted under the policy, as the terms and conditions of the policy didnt allow for more 
than two claims in a policy year. Ms M also complained that she was given poor service by the contractor who attended to 
carry out the inspection. She said that the contractor laid the incorrect valves as they laid 
plastic valves instead of the correct metal ones. But, having reviewed the evidence, Ms M 
privately instructed the contractor to lay the valves. I note that Ms M accepted that the 
installation of the valves wasnt covered by the policy. In view of this, I am satisfied that AWP 
cant be held responsible for this, as this was a private contract that Ms M entered into with 
the contractor.
Finally, Ms M complained that she believed that it wasnt good industry practice for AWP to 
keep changing contractors. I have reviewed the reports from the technicians and can see 
that although, different technicians were sent by AWP to assist with the infestation, the same 
company was used for the treatment. I cant agree that it was unreasonable for different 
technicians to attend, as each report mentions what the previous technician did. So, I think 
there was continuity in the treatment and service that Ms M received.
Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied that AWP correctly refused to provide 
further cover for any future infestation, as Im satisfied that there were two infestations within 
the policy period of a year. Also, I cant hold AWP responsible for the contract that Ms M 
entered privately with the contractor who attended.  Although I understand that this is not the 
outcome Ms M wouldve liked, I wont be asking AWP to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman