DRN-4232989
The complaint
Mr W complains about the settlement Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) offered him when he made a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I think BPFs offer was reasonable. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, it might be 
possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says 
that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
The cost of the kitchen installation was not covered by the finance agreement. That 
agreement only covered the cost of the kitchen. 
BPF organised an independent inspection by an expert in order to decide whether to uphold 
Mr Ws claim. On the basis of that report, they agreed to reduce the loan balance by the cost 
of the worktop and the oven housing unit. That equated to £5,205.10. They also explained 
that a replacement double sink unit was available.
The kitchen cost Mr W a little over £12,500 and I think the settlement offered by BPF was a 
fair one. It attended to the issues Mr W had raised with them, but not the installation errors 
that had been highlighted in the independent inspection report. 
The service BPF provided when handling Mr Ws complaint wasnt acceptable. Theres no 
time limit imposed when handling a section 75 claim, as they can often be complex and 
theres often a need to gather lots of information. But I think BPF should have been more 
responsive to Mr W. I can understand that delayed the resolution and Mr W has explained 
that caused him and his wife significant distress as they had no facilities, and their house 
was in disarray. BPF offered Mr W £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
they caused and while I understand Mr W doesnt think that is sufficient, I think it is in line 
with the award this Service would make in the circumstances. Im not therefore, asking BPF 
to pay any more. And, ultimately, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman