DRN-1706629
The complaint
Mr Zs complaint is about the payment amounts charged by Arval UK Limited and the tax 
charge. He wants to be refunded for the difference between the quote he received, and the 
payments made. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Z entered into a hire agreement with Arval in April 2017. He had previously 
received an order form dated 15 March 2017 from a broker which included amounts 
for the initial rental and then following 35 monthly rental payments. It is these 
amounts Mr Z said he should have paid. However, as this information wasnt 
provided by Arval, and Arval had not been involved in the production of these 
numbers I do not find that it had any requirement to be bound by these. 
The order form states that the next step is to complete the finance application and 
that the contract is subject to credit acceptance. Given this I find it reasonable that 
Mr Z was aware that he would then receive information from the finance provider 
which he would need to consider.
Arval provided Mr Z pre-contract information which set out the advance payment and 
advance maintenance charge. The document then says that there will be 35 monthly 
rentals of £261.88. I can see these amounts were higher than those set out in the 
order form and had Mr Z been concerned by this I would have expected him to have 
raised this at the time. The hire agreement also clearly set out the details of the 
payments due and Mr Z signed this on 7 April confirming he accepted the terms. 
Mr Z paid the amounts set out in the hire agreement and didnt raise any concerns 
about the advance payment or monthly rental amounts until more than two years 
after entering the lease.
Given the information about the payments was clearly set out in the pre contract 
information and the hire agreement I find that Mr Z was able to make an informed 
decision about whether to enter into the agreement. As he signed the agreement and 
then didnt raise any concerns until much later, I find it reasonable to say that he had 
accepted the terms of the hire agreement.
Mr Z has also complained about the charges for vehicle tax. Arval has confirmed that 
the road fund licence is built into the cost of the monthly payments but that if the cost 
increases during the term of the lease the hirer is invoiced for the additional amount. I 
have looked at the terms of the hire agreement and can see that it sets out that the 
Hirer shall be liable for any increase to vehicle excise licence costs. Arval has 
confirmed that this is the amount that Mr Z has been charged. Given this I do not find 
I can say Arval has done anything wrong by charging Mr Z for these costs.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Arval UK Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman