DRN-3127305
The complaint
Miss Rs complained that Claim Easy Limited have charged her success fees for recovering 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  but shes never received the refunds.
What happened
Miss R contacted Claim Easy to assist her in getting a refund of PPI shed been mis-sold.  
She signed Claim Easys terms and conditions and letters of authority, allowing Claim Easy 
to contact lenders on her behalf.  Miss R has said that Claim Easy recovered PPI from 
several lenders and she paid their fee.
Miss R says she heard nothing from Claim Easy for about two years.  Then they contacted 
her for payment of three more invoices.  Miss R says she never received any payment from 
any of those lenders  so she didnt think she should have to pay.  However, Claim Easy 
continued to chase her for payment and eventually instructed debt collectors to recover what 
they said Miss R owed.
Miss R complained to Claim Easy.  Claim Easy investigated and wrote to Miss R with their 
conclusions.  They said that two of the lenders (L1 and L2) had told them they were sending 
her a refund directly - so their fee was due.  
In respect of the third claim, Claim Easy said theyd submitted a claim to the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) as the lender (L3) had gone out of business.  And 
theyd recovered money for Miss R from the FSCS.  Shed not received a payment because 
she still owed L3 more than the value of the refund - so the FSCS had used it to reduce the 
loan.  But Claim Easy said theyd still got Miss R a refund  so their fee was due.
Claim Easy said that theyd put collection of their fees on hold in late 2018 when Miss R told 
them shed not received payment from the lenders and had asked her for copy bank 
statements to help her locate the money.  But Miss R hadnt sent those and didnt reply to 
Claim Easys correspondence for many months.  So they started pursuing their fees again.
Miss R didnt accept Claim Easys final response and brought her complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded Claim Easy didnt need to do anything more to 
resolve it.  She was satisfied Claim Easy had made claims to the three lenders on Miss Rs 
behalf and the lenders had said theyd paid Miss R directly.  She noted Claim Easy had 
advised Miss R what to do if shed not received the payments.
With regard to the claim where Miss R hadnt received a payment, the investigator noted that 
Claim Easys fee was payable where compensation was set off against an outstanding loan, 
as well as where the customer received a refund.
Miss R didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint.  Ill explain why.
The role of our service is to resolve complaints fairly and impartially.  To do that, we ask both 
sides to provide us with information and evidence, which we weigh up to come to what we 
think is the fairest outcome.
Both sides agree that Miss R did instruct Claim Easy to assist her with her claims.  And Ive 
seen that Miss R signed letters of authority permitting Claim Easy to contact the lenders on 
her behalf.  
Ive read Claim Easys terms and conditions which were attached to the letters of authority.  
These say Claim Easys fee is due when they obtain a refund for their client  and no fee is 
payable if they dont.  Miss R says no fee is due because she didnt receive any payment.  
Claim Easy say she did.  Ive thought carefully about this because its clear that, if Miss R is 
right, no fee is due.
Claim Easy have sent us copies of the offer letters they received from the lenders.  In each 
case those letters were sent to Miss R and copied to Claim Easy.  The invoices sent to   
Miss R are based on those figures.
So Im satisfied the offers were made.  And I can see from Claim Easys file that, when   
Miss R told Claim Easy shed not received any money for two of the claims, they contacted 
the lenders to chase payment for her.  
Their records show Miss R told Claim Easy shed received payment of refund from L1 in 
November.  So Im satisfied Claim Easy are entitled to that fee.  In respect of the claim to L2, 
Claim Easy made enquiries and established L2 had sent the refund to Miss R in late May 
2017.  They offered to help Miss R identify the payment if she sent them her bank 
statements.  
Miss R never did this.  Nor could she send them to our investigator.  In the absence of that 
evidence, I could only consider the details and copy documents Claim Easy have supplied.  
That showed Claim Easy were notified of the offer.  And the enquiries they made when   
Miss R told them shed not had any payment produced details of when and how the payment 
was made.  In the absence of anything to show that information was wrong, Im persuaded 
Miss R did receive the payment  and that Claim Easy are entitled to the fee for the claim to 
L2.
In respect of the claim made to the FSCS/L3, Ive again seen the offer letter which was sent 
to Miss R.  Its clear from that Miss Rs refund was used to reduce what she owed the lender 
 so she didnt receive a payment.
I can see why Miss R might think thats unfair.  But Ive looked again at the terms and 
conditions.   Fees are chargeable when a client receives redress.  Redress is defined as:
any sums paid or awarded before tax in respect of any claim made by us on your behalf.  
This includes compensation, gestures of goodwill, refunds, discounts, any reduction in the 
loan outstanding and/or any interest or capital recovered.
So its clear that Claim Easy will still take a fee if their client gets the benefit of a refund, 
rather than a direct payment.  Wed expect a claims management company to explore this 
with their client.  I can see that their letter of authority has a box to be checked if the client 
was behind with payments.  So Im satisfied they did make enquiries.I appreciate Miss R says shed paid the loan off some years before.  But, again, shes not 
been able to provide evidence of this, so Ive had to rely on the information from the FSCS, 
which clearly says theres a sum outstanding.  I can see our investigator suggested Miss R 
contact the FSCS if that information is wrong.  I agree with that suggestion because, in the 
absence of any evidence to contradict their information, I dont think its unfair for Claim Easy 
to charge a fee for this claim.
I understand Miss Rs concerned that shell find it difficult to find the money to pay Claim 
Easys invoices.  And I can see that, when Claim Easy wrote to her about her complaint, 
they suggested that she could contact their representative to set up a payment plan to avoid 
further collection action.  Id urge her to do that, because I dont think that Claim Easy need 
to do any more to resolve her complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint about Claim Easy 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman