DRN-1433436
The complaint
Mr G complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) have unfairly declined a claim made 
under the rent guarantee section of his Landlord insurance policy. 
Where I refer to UKI, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide a 
very brief overview of the key points here. Mr G is the landlord of a property and 
unfortunately there was fire. The tenants had to vacate the property for repairs and 
refurbishment. Mr G says they later underpaid on the rent and there was a dispute. Mr G has 
previously complained to UKI and our service that his claim in relation to this matter for the 
rent guarantee section of his policy was declined. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think it had been fairly declined 
in relation to exclusions about late notification of the claim and sufficient checks having been 
conducted about the tenant at the start.  So, our investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that UKI reconsider the claim against the remaining policy terms. This was 
accepted by both Mr G and UKI.
UKI reconsidered and this time said that they didnt think that rental arrears were due as 
defined in the policy. The matter was passed to our investigator. He thought that the clause 
in the tenancy agreement that UKI were referring to to indicate that rent wasnt due was 
ambiguous. But as that wasnt UKIs agreement, he couldnt find against them on that basis. 
And having considered everything, our investigator thought UKIs decision was reasonable in 
the circumstances and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. I initially reviewed the 
complaint and got in touch with Mr G. I explained that I wasnt intending to uphold his 
complaint, but for different reasons to our investigator. I provided an opportunity for Mr G to 
respond with further comments or evidence. Now Ive done so, I can go ahead with my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to deviate from the outcome Ive previously shared with 
Mr G. Let me explain why. 
Mr Gs policy includes a rent guarantee section which says We will pay your Rent Arrears... 
The term Rent Arrears is given a further specific definition within the policy of Unpaid rent 
that is owed to you under a tenancy agreement to let your propertyTerms like these are common in this type of insurance and I dont think they are inherently 
unfair. UKI are setting out that in order for a claim to be met there must be rent arrears owed 
under a tenancy agreement. 
The circumstances of this complaint centre on whether there were rent arrears under the 
tenancy agreement. Mr G and UKI both interpret the tenancy agreement in a different way. 
Mr G thinks it makes clear he is owed rent, and says that his tenants paid some of what was 
owed  indicating that to be the case too. 
UKI asked a barrister to look at Mr Gs tenancy agreement. UKI arent experts in property 
law or tenancy agreements. Therefore, I think its fair for them to rely on suitably qualified 
legal opinion when making decisions about a claim, unless that advice is obviously wrong. In 
the circumstances here, the interpretation of the tenancy agreement is important to establish 
if there are rent arrears. 
The barrister concluded that there was a clause in the tenancy agreement which meant that 
the tenants werent in arrears as their specific circumstances meant that rent no longer 
needed to be paid. The barrister said Clause 5.5.1 is clear in its terms; where the premises 
become uninhabitable; rent under the agreement is not payable until the premises are 
returned to a habitable condition. Therefore there are no Rent Arrears as defined in the 
Policy. He went on to explain that clause 5.5.2 which Mr G says negates 5.5.1 didnt, in his 
opinion, do so. The barrister also considered whether it could be considered that a new / 
varied agreement was formed so as to vary the agreement between them set out in clause 
5.5.1. But he concluded there wasnt evidence to support this. 
Mr G has submitted evidence in an email from a Senior Lettings Manager which he says 
contains information from the letting agents legal team. This said  it is our view that rent 
is still payable until such times as the tenancy is terminatedthe tenant was still liable to pay 
rent
Ive considered this. Ive no reason to doubt that advice was taken from the letting agents 
legal team when writing the email in question. But Im not persuaded that more weight 
should be given to the email from the lettings manager compared to the barristers opinion. 
In summary, I think it is fair for UKI to rely on the barristers opinion on whether or not there 
are rent arrears when considering whether the policy should respond. And given the 
barrister didnt think there are rent arrears, I think UKIs decision to decline the claim on that 
basis is fair in the circumstances. 
If Mr G were to provide a similarly qualified legal opinion which supported his stance that 
there were rent arrears, Id expect UKI to consider it. But as things stand, I dont think they 
need to do more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman