DRN-1516890
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to help her when she 
was the victim of a scam. 
What happened
Mrs S was on holiday. She ordered some food and ice-creams at a beach cafe and paid with 
her Nationwide credit card by entering her PIN number. She says the staff at the cafe 
distracted her and didnt give her a receipt. She later found out shed been charged 180 
Euros rather than 180 Turkish Lira (TL) as shed expected. This worked out to around £160 
instead of about £25. 
Mrs S complained to Nationwide. She says she only authorised a payment for 180 TL. She 
doesnt think its fair that they are holding her liable for around £160. 
Nationwide responded to the complaint, but didnt uphold it. In summary they said that Mrs S 
had authorised the transaction by entering her PIN. They did consider a chargeback under 
the card scheme rules. But without further evidence beyond Mrs S testimony, they felt this 
was unlikely to succeed.
Mrs S referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators didnt think it should be 
upheld. She sympathised with Mrs S position, but didnt think Nationwide could have done 
more. As she still disagrees, Mrs S has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for largely the same reasons. So Im not 
upholding it and Ill explain why.
Firstly I dont think Nationwide fairly or reasonably would have had any way of knowing that 
this wasnt a genuine transaction. There doesnt seem to be anything untoward to suggest 
that Nationwide should have intervened at the time. So I dont think Nationwide could have 
prevented the transaction at the outset. But Ive considered whether or not there was 
anything else Nationwide ought to have done in the circumstances.
Generally speaking, Nationwide can only hold Mrs S liable for this transaction if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that she made or otherwise authorised it herself. 
Im satisfied by Nationwides technical evidence that Mrs S genuine card and PIN was used. 
Mrs S herself accepts that she knew she was making a payment, it is just the amount (by 
means of the currency) that she says is incorrect. So in these circumstances I cant fairly say 
that the payment was unauthorised. For the purposes of the relevant regulations, Mrs S 
handed over her card and consented to a payment being made by entering her PIN. It was 
her responsibility to check the amount. Nationwide pointed out that this would have been 
displayed on the merchants terminal. And whilst I understand Mrs S says the cafe staff distracted her, I cant fairly hold Nationwide responsible for this. So overall, as I cant 
conclude that the transaction was unauthorised, I dont think it is unfair for Nationwide to 
hold Mrs S liable for it. 
Nationwide also considered whether a chargeback could be raised under the card scheme 
rules. Mrs S couldnt provide further certification or evidence (such as a receipt or similar) 
beyond her testimony and the transaction appearing on her statement for what she says was 
the incorrect amount. This is a requirement under the schemes rules. So, based on this 
Nationwide didnt think there was enough evidence to proceed with the chargeback. I dont 
think that decision was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
I accept Mrs S testimony that she likely was misled by the staff at the beach cafe and Im 
sorry to hear shes been a victim in this way. But I dont think Nationwide are responsible for 
anything that either caused that loss or interfered in her ability to recover it. So, I cant fairly 
ask them to reimburse her.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman