DRN-4094030
The complaint
Miss K complains that Santander UK Plc held her liable for a credit card account that she 
didnt open and registered a default.
What happened
Miss K says she complained to Santander in September 2021 about direct debits from her 
current account she didnt recognise. She found that these were going to a credit card 
account with Santander in her name opened in January 2020. And so, she made a fraud 
claim. She believes she was told in October 2021 that this was upheld. But when she 
applied for a mortgage in 2022 she found that this debt then of over £2,900 remained in her 
name and that a default was registered. Shes reached an agreement to repay this with the 
agency then involved but is unhappy she wasnt given the opportunity to pay this to 
Santander and had no reminders about it.
Santander said it hadnt made a mistake. It didnt accept that Miss K had been the victim of 
credit card fraud. It wrote to tell her on 6 October 2021 it wasnt upholding her complaint. 
And as the debt wasnt repaid it had registered a default. It had paid her compensation when 
it hadnt responded to her at times as quickly as it said it would.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the card 
application used her mothers address (referred to here as Number 55), and the card and 
PIN would have been issued there. The spending on the account was similar to that on   
Miss Ks other Santander credit card account shed had since 2014. And the limit hadnt 
been used as quickly as possible which wasnt consistent with use by a fraudster. Payments 
to the card had been made from Miss Ks current account by direct debit. Hed seen that the 
IP address used to access both accounts had been the same at times. So, he concluded 
that Miss K was responsible for the use of the card, and he noted that Miss Ks mother had 
represented her in earlier matters about her account in April 2021.
Our investigator said that Santander had issued a response to the fraud claim. And it had 
sent letters to the address at Number 55 about repayment. When there was no response it 
issued a notice of default and then on 7 April 2022 informed Miss K that a default had been 
registered. He hadnt seen evidence that Santander had told Miss K either in October 2021 
or in May 2022 that she wasnt responsible for the debt as she claimed. He was satisfied that 
Miss K was aware of the liability and as she didnt repay it Santander was entitled to take 
action about it.
Miss K didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said shed been told in a 
call of 19 May 2022 that she didnt owe anything and was unhappy this couldnt be traced. 
She had a direct debit to make payments on her genuine card and no payments were then 
taken for this debt which she thought was bizarre. Shed made a mortgage application in 
November 2021 and said that nothing adverse was then showing. Letters had been sent to 
Number 55, but shed moved to Number 103 (her new address) and her mother didnt 
receive the letters. Shed tried to rectify things when this came to her attention in April 2022. 
And significant charges had been added to the debt by then. This had all happened without 
her knowledge.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Ill be thinking about what is most likely. I 
note from the information provided by Miss K that she had an association with Number 55. 
She said shed lived there for a period and her credit record shows other credit at this 
address. She also said her mother lived there until April 2020.
I appreciate that the credit card application in January 2020 used the Number 55 address 
and also a different email address and phone number to those we have for Miss K. I also 
can see that the system address Santander held for Miss K was Number 55 until later into 
2022. As our investigator says the card and PIN would have been sent to that address.   
There isnt any credible explanation of how an unknown third party would have been able to 
intercept them there. And the direct debit payments were coming from Miss Ks current 
account and so any fraudster risked discovery. The spending was also not consistent with 
that of a fraudster and seemed to be for general household elements. Im satisfied that   
Miss K most likely consented to this application and I dont rule out her allowing someone 
else to use the account and card.
Given that finding I consider she was fairly responsible for making repayments. When she 
contacted Santander she knew that the direct debit payment to the account was cancelled. 
Shed only confirmed that a direct debit payment to the account she said was genuine would 
continue. While I heard her discussing in a call what might happen with the direct debit 
payments shed made to the disputed account there was no commitment these would all be 
refunded. And Santander explains it wrote to Miss K to say her claim wasnt being upheld.
Further reminders were sent to Number 55 and escalated to a default. And in any event  
Miss K reasonably knew no payments were being made to the account. Beyond 
compensation for service issues, I dont see evidence that her claim of identity fraud was 
upheld, or that when say she hadnt received the further direct debit refunds shed wanted 
that this was followed up. In none of the communications with Miss K, Ive seen and listened 
to did Santander state it accepted shed been the victim of identity fraud. There is no record 
of any call on 19 May 2022 despite searches being made.
I take into account that Miss K decided to reach a partial settlement on the debt in July 2022 
and after her complaint had been referred to this service. I appreciate she says that she 
would have done this earlier had she known that she was being held responsible for the 
debt. But as I set out above any impression she may have had that she shouldnt pay it back 
wasnt based on anything Santander had provided. And it was communicating with her at an 
address Ive found shed being using for the card account. So, while I understand why shell 
be very disappointed with my assessment I dont have a basis to find that Santander should 
take any further action than it has already in paying the compensation for the service issues 
referred to.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman