DRN-3898715
The complaint
Mr R complained that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAML) has been 
taking commission in respect of single payments and transfers into his personal pension 
without authorisation. He also complains that these payments are excessive and unjustified 
in relation to the service it provides.
He would like to be compensated for the lower present value of his pension which has 
resulted from these payments. 
What happened
Mr R took out a personal pension with Friends Provident in 1999, with HLAML acting in the 
capacity of a broker through its Hargreaves September 1999 Special Deal Global 
Employees promotion. Further investment into the pension was typically made by lump sum 
in some, but not all subsequent years.
Friends Provident was acquired by Aviva in 2015, and Mr Rs pension was included in the 
acquisition. Mr R believes that following this event, HLAML began receiving commission 
payments of 4% of the value of the lump sum payments made into his policy. These totaled 
around £1,500 for the tax years 2020/21 and 2021/22.
Mr R complained to HLAML in 2021 when he became aware of these payments being taken 
from his pension.
HLAM responded on 18 October 2021, explaining that it would not be upholding his 
complaint. It stated that it had acted only as a broker, that the commission it had received 
was in respect of Mr Rs pension sale alone, and not to fund ongoing service and support. 
HLALM also stated that Mr R would have received an illustration and application when the 
pension was set up in 1999, which would have outlined the level of commission payable to 
HLAML.
HLAML also said it believed that Mr R had brought his complaint too late for it to be 
considered by this service
Mr R disagreed and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator considered 
whether Mr R had indeed complained too late for this service to consider it. He decided that 
Mr R had not complained too late and began to investigate the merits of the complaint.
During the course of her investigation, our investigator gathered and reviewed evidence 
provided by both HLAML and Mr R. Neither HLAML nor Mr R were able to provide any 
copies of the competed application forms or correspondence sent to Mr R when his pension 
was established. 
Mr R was able to provide evidence that showed no reference to charges or commission 
relating to future single payments in information leaflets he received from HLALM around the 
time he set up the pension in 1999. One leaflet stated:
The annual management charge on this new generation pension is usually 0.95%, making it 
one of the best value pensions in the UK. We have negotiated to reduce this charge by over 
10% to an annual management charge of 0.85% of the fund value, well below the 
Governments proposed stakeholder maximum charge of 1%. There are no other expenses 
 the 0.85% charge includes everything.
Post sale documentation relating to a payment he made in June 2015 stated 
No remuneration will be paid to HARGREAVES LANSDOWN PENSIONS for arranging this 
plan
HLAML reviewed these documents and replied that
The original Friends Provident policy was set up that the regular savings and the single 
payments at that time was only subject to 0.85% management fees and no initial charge. 
However, Friends Provident was subsequently taken over by Aviva and the client was then 
bound by the terms offered by Aviva and this information would not have been 
communicated to HL[AML] and would have been outside of HL[ALM]s control.
It went on to say
Had the client then topped up their account with Aviva, they would then be subject to the 
terms provided by Aviva. Aviva should have provided Mr R with an illustration, Key Features 
and Terms & Conditions that he should have read and questioned if he did not believe this is 
line with his Friends Provident agreement.
Mr R believed the commission payments disputed in this complaint only arose after Aviva 
took over his pension from Friends Provident on 1 October 2017.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence and formed the view that the complaint should not be 
upheld. Mr R disagreed, so this case has been passed to me to review the evidence again 
and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considering the view of our investigator, I have reached the same 
conclusion and will not be upholding Mr Rs complaint.
I can appreciate that this will be disappointing for him, so let me explain how I have reached 
my decision.
Firstly, I have to determine whether Mr R has complained in time for his complaint to be 
considered by this service. The rules under which the service operates are set out in the 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. The relevant 
part of DISP 2.8.2 states:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication; or(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint 
having been received. 
Mr Rs pension was set up in 1999, which is more than six years ago. So, when referring to 
this time limit, the complaint had been made out of time. 
So I need to decide whether or not Mr R complained within three years of being aware or 
ought to have reasonably become aware that he may have cause for complaint.
Looking at the evidence provided by Mr R, I am satisfied that he was unaware of the 
commission being paid to HLALM prior to being made aware of this when he reviewed the 
post sale documentation sent to him by Aviva in May 2020. The statements he had received 
from Friends Provident or Aviva prior to this date did not disclose the commission, so I find 
that there is no evidence to suggest that he should have been reasonably aware that he had 
cause to complain before then. Given this, I find that this is a case that this service can 
consider.
Turning now to the merits of this case, I have to determine whether HLALM was responsible 
for the charges that it received in respect of the lump sum contributions made by Mr R. 
Unfortunately neither Mr R nor HLALM have been able to provide copies of the original 
documentation signed in 1999. The information leaflets Mr R was able to provide leads me 
to conclude it likely that HLALM acted as a broker in the establishment of Mr Rs pension, 
and that it is very likely that he received the benefit of a discount to the annual management 
charge on his pension by this arrangement.
When he took out his pension, Mr R would have been issued with an application form and an 
illustration which would have outlined all the charges associated with his pension. He would 
have needed to sign and confirm his acceptance to these terms before the pension would 
have been set up, so he would have had to have agreed to any charges specified at that 
time. Having said that, if the charges levied on his pension contributions had varied once 
Aviva took over the policy, those changes should have been communicated to him for his 
acceptance.
I have not been able to establish exactly when or why Aviva began to make payments to 
HLALM, as Mr R has not granted permission HLALM to contact Aviva about his plan. Aviva 
has not provided any information related to this, so I have to make the decision on the 
available evidence. Given this, I think on balance that it is likely the payments have arisen 
from an action Aviva has taken in the process of taking over Mr Rs plan from Friends 
Provident, possibly from a change in the terms and conditions that apply to the policy. There 
is no evidence that HLALM has requested or taken any action to initiate these payments, 
and I find it likely that Aviva has made these payments as a commission to HLALM for acting 
as the broker when the plan was initially set up. With no evidence to the contrary, I find that 
HLALM has not done anything wrong in accepting the commission payments made to it in 
respect of Mr Rs pension. I think it likely that HLALM did have an agreement with Friends 
Provident under which it would have earned a commission for acting as a broker, and it is 
not unusual for such agreements to include an element of ongoing commission. It also 
seems reasonable to conclude that Aviva may have changed the payment terms for this commission element, but I cannot hold HLALM responsible for that. HLALM received rather 
than took these payments from Mr Rs pension, so I find that HLALM is not responsible for 
the charges made.
I understand that Mr R has made a separate complaint to Aviva for taking the charges from 
his pension and paying them to HLALM, but I cannot comment on the merits of that 
complaint here.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
As a result, I will not be asking Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited to do 
anything else
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman