DRN-2030051
 
The complaint
Miss R complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) have voided her car insurance policy due to 
misrepresentation. She says the information she provided when she took the policy out was 
correct.
What happened
UKI received Miss Rs application for a new car insurance policy via an online application in 
December 2017 and issued a policy. Miss R called UKI in November 2018 to change her 
vehicle and renew her policy, and UKI sent her new policy documents.
In April 2019, UKI contacted Miss R as they thought there were inaccuracies with the 
information shed provided. Miss R spoke to UKI over the phone and confirmed she had 
received her policy documents and didnt notice any errors. However after further discussion, 
Miss R accepted there were a number of errors on the policy: the named driver is her friend 
and not her partner; she didnt have six cars at the household; the occupations noted for 
both her and her named driver were incorrect; and she isnt a home owner.
UKI voided the policy. It said Miss R had deliberately misrepresented the facts, and had 
provided incorrect information in order to get a cheaper quote. Miss R said she had provided 
the correct information at the time of application and thought it was a problem with UKIs 
system, so she complained.
After further investigation, UKI said there was an indication Miss R had been a victim of a 
ghost broker  when she applied for the policy she was dealing with a broker, but was 
tricked into thinking they were UKI. The ghost broker will change the details of the risk in 
order to get a lower quote and they can pocket the difference.
UKI amended its decision and said Miss Rs misrepresentation wasnt deliberate, but it was 
reckless. It agreed to refund her policy premiums. However it said the policy would still be 
void as she should have checked that the information on the policy documents was correct. 
Miss R disagreed and referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she was persuaded by Miss Rs testimony 
and as UKI was familiar with other cases of ghost brokers, it was more likely than not Miss R 
had given the correct information when she received a phone call to set up the policy. She 
thought it was understandable Miss R hadnt checked her policy documents when she 
thought she had given the correct information already. She said UKI should remove any 
record of a voided policy and treat it as if Miss R had cancelled it.
UKI disagreed with the investigator and so the complaint was passed to me for a decision. I 
issued a provisional decision, in which I said as follows: 
The relevant law at the time of Miss Rs application is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). CIDRA says that customers must take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when applying for insurance.
For UKI to prove there has been a qualifying misrepresentation as set out in CIDRA, it needs 
to show Miss R failed to take reasonable care, that the information she gave was inaccurate, 
and it would have done something different if it had been given the right information.
UKI has agreed theres a strong indication Miss R may have been tricked into thinking she 
was speaking to someone from UKI. It is aware of situations where customers have 
searched for a policy online and then been called by someone claiming to be from UKI. The 
third party will then then input incorrect information about the customer in order to get a 
cheaper quote.
Miss R has been consistent to both UKI and our service about how she applied for the policy 
over the phone, although UKIs records indicate an online application. And UKI has 
confirmed the IP address recorded for the online application wasnt anywhere near Miss Rs 
home. Considering all the evidence, I think what Miss R has said is plausible, and its more 
likely than not she thought she was speaking to UKI when she applied for the policy.
As its likely Miss R spoke to a third party to set up the policy, a copy of the call recording 
isnt available. So it isnt possible to know what questions Miss R was asked, or the answers 
she gave. But its clear the information wasnt correct. And the information was passed onto 
UKI on her behalf. Strictly speaking, there may have been a misrepresentation. And UKI has 
shown that it wouldnt have offered the policy at the same price, if it had been given accurate 
information. So it would have done something different.
However, looking at the circumstances of what happened, it wouldnt be fair to allow UKI to 
void that policy from the outset.
In saying she made a misrepresentation, UKI has relied on the fact Miss R didnt check that 
her policy documents were correct when she received them after the application.
Miss R has consistently said she gave the correct information over the phone when she 
applied for the policy, and UKI has agreed its more likely than not Miss R thought she was 
speaking to UKI.
In these particular circumstances I can see why Miss R didnt complete a detailed check of 
the policy documents, or double check the details she may not have considered as essential 
 such as the number of cars in her household, whether she was a homeowner and her 
occupation. As far as she was aware, shed given the correct details, and she didnt know 
she was dealing with a third party, not UKI. It wouldnt be fair to void the policy when the 
problems arose due to the actions of a ghost broker.
I understand she called UKI during the policy year to make some changes. Again, if she was 
only discussing a specific change, I can see why she might not have checked that all the 
other details were correct.
However, in my view the position is different when she came to renew the policy in 
November 2019. At the same time she also changed her vehicle.
The adviser told her she would receive new policy documents and she should check 
everything still meets your needs. Any errors or changes get in contact with us. Its only you 
or your partner that have access to discuss or change the policy.
UKI has said at this point Miss R should have realised the policy details they had were 
incorrect. Ive thought about this carefully and I agree. This was a new contract being 
entered into, and changes had been made. Miss R was told to check her documents and 
contact UKI if there were any errors or changes. The documents set out the information UKI has recorded as having been given by Miss R. She had a duty to take reasonable care 
to ensure the information was accurate. I would generally expect a policyholder to check the 
information is correct. And at this point, there had been no involvement by a ghost broker  
Miss R was dealing with UKI herself. So it was reasonable to expect her to check the 
information.
As UKI has shown it would have charged a higher premium if it had been given accurate 
information, I think this would be a qualifying misrepresentation. The remedy available to an 
insurer when theres a qualifying misrepresentation will depend on whether that 
misrepresentation was deliberate, reckless or careless.
I dont think Miss R misrepresented her position deliberately  it doesnt seem she set out to 
mislead UKI intentionally. But I agree she was reckless, taking into account the definition in 
CIDRA, which says:
(2) A qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the consumer  
a. Knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue or 
misleading, and
b. Knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer, or 
did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
I think Miss Rs actions at the renewal meet this definition. And where a qualifying 
misrepresentation is reckless, an insurer is entitled to treat the policy as void.
For these reasons, in my view it would be fair to void the policy for 2018-19. But I dont think 
its fair to void the policy for 2017-18, given that Miss R was the victim of a scam and was 
under the impression she was speaking to UKI when she set up the policy.
Having said that, it wouldnt be fair to ask UKI to insure Miss R when it was induced into 
providing the policy because the ghost broker gave them incorrect information. So the fair 
thing to do would be to treat the policy for that year as cancelled.
On this basis I said UKI should amend its records and any central databases (such as CUE) 
so Miss Rs policy for 2017-18 is recorded as being cancelled by herself, and not voided.
Replies to the provisional decision 
Miss R has replied to say she has nothing to add and will wait for the final decision.
UKI says while it mostly agrees with the provisional decision, it doesn't agree with the
request to treat Miss R's policy for 2017-18 as being cancelled by her and not voided. 
UKI says Miss R may have been tricked by a third party, but that doesn't change the fact that 
it accepted the policy and provided a premium based on the information she provided, and 
sent documents to her, highlighting the need to check them. It says Miss R failed to do this 
and renewed the policy without checking the information. It considers this to be reckless 
behaviour and believes if her policy had not been checked, she would have continued to be 
reckless in her representations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive considered UKIs comments carefully but they dont lead me to change my decision. I 
agree that when she came to renew her policy, Miss R should have been more careful and 
checked the information was all correct. She was dealing with UKI directly, amd told she 
would receive new policy documents and should check everything. This was a new contract 
and she had made some changes. So its reasonable to expect her to check things. 
But when she took out the policy she had been tricked into thinking she was speaking to 
UKI. In those circumstances I dont think she had been reckless, for the reasons set out in 
the provisional decision. 
So it remains my view that it would not be fair in the particular circumstances here to void the 
policy for 2017-18 and that policy should be treated as cancelled, but it is fair to treat the 
contract for 2018-19 as void.
Putting things right
To put things right UKI should amend its records and any central databases (such as CUE) 
so Miss Rs policy for 2017-18 is recorded as being cancelled by herself, and not voided.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly upjohold the complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to 
take the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2020.  
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman