DRN-3674728
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Pinnacle Insurance Plc declined a claim on his pet insurance policy due 
to a pre-existing medical condition.
What happened
Mr Ls pet was diagnosed with hyperthyroidism during an annual vet check in December 
2021. He submitted a claim for treatment for the condition through his pet insurance policy. 
But it was rejected by Pinnacle as a pre-existing condition. Mr L said the policy had started 
at the beginning of December  just over two weeks before the diagnosis. Mr L said he felt it 
was sensible to take out pet insurance as his pet was getting older. But he had no idea his 
pet was suffering from the condition when he took out the policy. So Mr L wants Pinnacle to 
accept his claim and pay for the treatment.
Pinnacle said itd looked at Mr Ls claim together with the pets medical history and the vets 
notes from the examination in December 2021. The notes showed the pet had lost weight 
over the previous year and blood tests had been recommended. The pet had subsequently 
been diagnosed with hyperthyroidism.
Pinnacle said itd declined Mr Ls claim on the grounds of a pre-existing condition. The vets 
comments and medical history confirmed the symptoms had started in October the previous 
year when the weight loss symptoms had started to be monitored and checked. That was 
before the policy started. And the policy didnt provide cover for a pre-existing condition.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with Pinnacles response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator could see Mr L had visiting the vet just 
over two weeks after the policy had started. The pet was due a booster vaccination. But it 
was also noted that Mr L was concerned about the pets weight loss.
Our investigator looked at the law relating to Mr Ls application process to see if hed 
misrepresented any information when he took out the pet insurance policy. He felt Pinnacles 
question about pre-existing conditions had been clear. But based on the medical history he 
didnt think Mr L had taken reasonable care to make sure he wasnt making a 
misrepresentation by answering no to the question about pre-existing conditions. 
Pinnacle confirmed to our investigator that it would still have provided cover to Mr Ls pet if 
itd been aware of the pre-existing condition. But it wouldve attached key exclusions to the 
policy relating to teeth and gum problems and upper respiratory tract infection. That wouldve 
meant the pets diagnosed condition wouldve been excluded under the adjusted terms. So 
our investigator felt Pinnacle had acted fairly in declining Mr Ls claim.  
Mr L didnt agree with our investigator. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
Mr L said the weight loss between October 2020 and December 2021 wasnt necessarily 
due to hyperthyroidism. Hed been trying to improve his pets diet as the vet had suggested it 
was overweight during previous visits. There was nothing to suggest there was anything 
wrong with his pet. And he still felt the claim for hyperthyroidism should be valid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr Ls pet has experienced. The situation wouldve 
been made worse when Mr Ls claim on his pet insurance policy was declined. 
The main issue in Mr Ls complaint is whether Pinnacle acted fairly in declining a claim on 
his pet insurance policy because it was related to a pre-existing condition (and excluded 
under the policy). As a result of its decision Pinnacle has also added specific exclusions to 
the policy for future treatment relating to the condition identified. 
Ive considered both views carefully and Ive looked at the relevant terms and conditions in 
the pet insurance policy, together with the supporting evidence and medical history. As our 
investigator has explained, the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
During the online application process Mr L was asked a series of questions. I can see the 
online process highlights that the policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. The policy 
document Mr L received also states Pinnacle will not pay for any condition or symptom, or 
anything related to it, that you were aware of or has been noted and/or checked by a vet, 
before the policy started.
Mr L responded no to a question asking if his pet had shown any signs of illness or injury. 
He says he wasnt aware of any existing health problems when he applied for the pet 
insurance. There hadnt been any symptoms. And Mr L feels the weight loss mightve been 
because hed adjusted his pets diet due to previous concerns about it being overweight.
But the vets notes state the reason for the December 2021 consultation was booster and 
weight loss. According to the medical history the pet had been losing weight and was being 
monitored at home. The pet was eating and drinking more than before. So blood tests were 
advised, leading to a diagnosis of hyperthyroidism. 
Based on what Ive seen I think Pinnacle made these conditions (exclusions) clear to Mr L 
when he took out the policy. Its not unusual for pet insurance policies to exclude pre-existing 
conditions. And Im satisfied Pinnacle made Mr L sufficiently aware of the importance for the 
information he provided to be correct. 
I think Pinnacle has shown it asked a clear question to which Mr L gave an inaccurate 
answer. I dont think Mr L took reasonable care when he responded no to the question 
asking if his pet had shown any signs of illness or injury.
Pinnacle said it wouldve still offered Mr L the pet insurance policy if itd been aware of the 
symptoms when the policy started  but it wouldve offered the policy on different terms. So 
Im satisfied a qualifying misrepresentation has occurred. And that Mr L acted carelessly 
when answering no to the question relating to pre-existing conditions. I think Pinnacle was entitled to rely on the medical evidence provided by the vet to say 
thered been signs or symptoms of the illness before the policy started. And Ive not seen 
any other evidence that contradicts its decision.
Having considered the vets notes as well as Mr Ls comments I think on balance its more 
likely the condition had been present for some time before the policy was taken out. And that 
Mr L was aware of the signs or symptoms even if they hadnt been diagnosed as 
hyperthyroidism at that point.
Under the CIDRA rules that means Pinnacle was entitled to decline Mr Ls claim for 
treatment as it related to a pre-existing condition. And it was entitled to add the exclusions 
for any future treatment for teeth and gum problems and upper respiratory tract infection to 
the policy.
I realise Mr L will be disappointed with this outcome. But I wont be asking Pinnacle to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman