DRN-2494011
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
What happened
In 1996 Mr and Mrs E bought a PPI policy at the same time as they applied for a mortgage. 
Lloyds cant confirm where the sale took place, Mr and Mrs E recall it was on the phone. The 
policy was in Mr Es sole name and gave him protection against accident, sickness and 
unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) my decision is based on the
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the evidence
we do have and what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs E say they were not aware the PPI was optional. Lloyds says it hasnt identified
any failings during the sale.
I cant know what was said and Lloyds isnt able to provide documents to show how the PPI 
was presented to Mr and Mrs E. But the sale was around 25 years ago, so this isnt 
surprising or unreasonable. Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs E said but I 
also have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what 
they recall. Without stronger evidence to show Lloyds didnt make it clear the PPI was 
optional, and Mr and Mrs E didnt agree to take it out, I cant fairly uphold the complaint on 
this point.
Mr and Mrs E dont recall that Lloyds recommended the PPI to them. But the bank has said 
we can assume a recommendation was made. This is to Mr and Mrs Es benefit as it means 
the bank had more obligations to meet during the sales process. It means they had to check 
if the PPI was right for Mr E. I know he feels he didnt need the cover, but I think it seems to
have been suitable based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Ill explain
why.
Mr E was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if he was sick, but the PPI
would have paid out in addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 months for each
successful accident and sickness claim. It also gave up to 12 months redundancy cover.
This would have allowed Mr E to protect the lump sum redundancy payment he was entitled 
to, giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time.
Mr E says they had significant savings, but the PPI would have allowed him to use them to 
cover other costs whilst he wasnt working or to protect them for their future needs. Also, it 
seems the majority were held in longer-term savings plans so they would not be easily-
accessible and would most likely have had early redemption penalties. So the PPI would 
have meant Mr E didnt need to use them at what might have been an inopportune time. 
Mr and Mrs E had significant borrowings secured on their home. Given the serious 
consequences of missing mortgage payments, I think the cover wouldve been useful for Mr 
and Mrs E if Mr E was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Its possible Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs E all the information they needed before they
decided to buy PPI. I dont know it made the cost clear, but the PPI was reasonably priced
for the benefit it offered, and it was apparently affordable. And I dont know that it pointed out 
the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr E doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of those things (such as the type of employment contract or any pre-existing medical 
conditions). So I dont think better information wouldve changed their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs E have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Es compliant for the reasons set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman