DRN-3480945
The complaint
The estate of Mr B is unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) cancelled the 
late Mr Bs home insurance policy and declined a claim.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr B sadly passed away. Shortly after, an executor of the estate of Mr B 
contacted RSA, his home insurance provider, to update them.
The executor asked for correspondence to be sent to them directly going forward as the 
insured property would be unoccupied in the near future. RSA were also asked when the 
renewal was, and if there was anything more they needed to do at that time. RSA said the 
correspondence address was updated and renewal documents would be sent shortly.
In March 2021 there was an escape of water which caused damage to the insured property, 
so RSA were contacted to make a claim. However, RSA said theyd cancelled the policy 
back in March 2020 when they were unable to collect direct debit payments from the late 
Mr Bs account.
RSA had sent documents, but theyd been sent to the insured address rather than the home 
address of the executor. The estate of Mr B complained to RSA.
RSA apologised for sending the documents to the risk address and offered £100 
compensation for this. But RSA said they wouldnt reinstate the policy as cancellation letters 
were sent, and the executors were checking the property regularly so shouldve received 
them. They also said no payments had been made and they werent contacted when the 
bank account was frozen or at any time over the 14 months. And RSA said the policy 
wouldnt have provided cover for an escape of water when the property was unoccupied 
anyway.
The estate of Mr B was unhappy with RSAs position and brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend RSA do anything further. She said that it was clear RSA 
had failed to update the address as requested. But she said during contact with RSA, the 
executor had said theyd be visiting the property regularly, and the letters were sent there, 
and it was imperative as an executor that these letters were reviewed. She also said she has 
no reason to doubt the letters were sent, and it was for the estate of Mr B to make sure the 
property was fully insured.
The investigator also said the underwriters were unable to reinstate the policy, and she felt it 
wouldve been reasonable for the executor and estate of Mr B to have contacted RSA when 
they didnt receive any documents, to check the policy was in place and payments were 
being made. She said RSA had paid £100 compensation for not updating the address and 
she thought that was fair in the circumstances.
The estate of Mr B didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the telephone conversation when an executor of the estate of Mr B contacted 
RSA in November 2019. During this call, the executor asked RSA to send all 
correspondence to their address, which they provided. They also said the property was 
currently occupied by them and others but would be unoccupied shortly.
RSA said theyd update the address as requested, and the renewal documents would be 
sent shortly for review.
However, RSA accept they failed to update the address at that time and documents werent 
sent directly to the address of the executor, instead they went to the insured address.
RSA couldnt collect payments from the late Mr Bs account when the bank account was 
frozen. So, they issued two letters explaining this, and warning of possible cancellation, in 
January and February 2020. These letters also outlined a date which the outstanding 
payment needed to be made by. As payment for the policy wasnt received by RSA, the 
policy was then cancelled in March 2020. A cancellation letter was also sent by RSA to 
confirm this.  
Ive seen the letters sent and they do give warning what would happen if payment wasnt 
received, and these letters were addressed to the executors of the estate of Mr B. A 
cancellation letter was also sent when the policy was cancelled in March 2020. But they 
were sent to the insured address, rather than the home address of one of the executors. So, 
the executor wouldnt have received them directly at home. 
However, during the call with RSA in November 2019, the advisor asked whether anybody 
would be visiting the insured property when it was unoccupied in case there were any leaks 
or any other issues. The executor said they would be visiting regularly as they only lived 800 
meters away. 
Whilst RSA didnt send the letters to the address of the executor directly, they were sent to 
the insured address, which was in the care of the executors and estate of Mr B at the time, 
who had confirmed theyd regularly be visiting. The estate of Mr B has said other 
unconnected parties wouldve also visited the insured address. But any letters addressed to 
Mr B, the estate of Mr B or the executors (including the warning letters RSA sent), wouldve 
been important for the executors to review as administrators of the estate of Mr B. 
RSA has provided £100 compensation for not updating the address and sending the 
documents to the insured address and I think thats fair in the circumstances.The estate of Mr B has said they didnt have access to the late Mr Bs bank account so 
wouldnt have been aware when payments were being made, or consequently stopped. But 
during the call with RSA in November 2019, RSA explained that the executor would need to 
get in contact once the bank had frozen the account to update payment details. The 
executor said they would be contacting the bank soon and so were already on notice that 
theyd need to update payment details with RSA. But they didnt do so.
The executor was also told that theyd receive letters from RSA regarding renewal shortly 
after the call in November 2019, and there would be important endorsements on the policy 
due to the property being unoccupied which theyd need to review. 
But there was no contact from the estate of Mr B or the executor until they were in a claim 
position over 14 months after that call, and after when they were expecting to receive 
renewal information and other documents from RSA. So even if the letters werent received 
at the home of the executors, they were expecting to receive documents (and wouldve 
been due another renewal over the next 14 months too if it hadnt been cancelled). So, in the 
absence of receiving anything they were expecting, it wouldve been reasonable for the 
estate of Mr B to contact RSA to check what was happening and whether the property was 
still insured. But there was no contact over the entire time.
RSA say they were unable to reinstate the policy due to the time that had passed, that there 
had been no contact or payments made, and they sent letters outlining what was happening. 
And I dont think RSAs position is unreasonable. Whilst they didnt send letters to the home 
address of the executor, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable solely on this basis to 
direct them to reinstate the policy and deal with the claim for the reasons Ive outlined above. 
Instead I think RSAs offer of £100 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
so Im not going to direct them to increase this.
RSA has also explained the policy doesnt cover damage caused by an escape of water 
when the property is unoccupied. So even if the policy was reinstated (which Im not going to 
direct RSA to do), there still wouldnt be a valid claim under the policy in any event.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman