DRN-1318429
 
The complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Leeds mis-sold him and his late wife, Mrs H, a 
regular monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when they took out a 
mortgage in December 1990. He says the policy wasnt optional, and they didnt need the 
policy because of the occupational benefits and savings that they had. He says he didnt 
know about the policy or agree to take it. 
What happened
In December 1990, Mr H and Mrs H purchased a PPI policy when they took out a mortgage. 
The policy covered Mr H only, in the event he wasnt working due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. The PPI cost around £18.00 each month and wouldve provided a monthly 
benefit of £300 for up to 12 months following a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Mr H disagrees, so the complaint comes to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding this 
complaint. And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
The mortgage and the PPI were taken out almost 30 years ago and the policy was cancelled 
more than 15 years ago when the mortgage was redeemed in July 2004. So unsurprisingly 
neither party has been able to provide much detailed information about the sale. And in 
these situations, I have to look at what I think is more likely to have happened.
I dont doubt that Mr H has given his honest recollections from that meeting in December 
1990, but I have to accept that after all this time memories can and do fade. And I just dont 
have any evidence whatsoever to suggest that the policy wasnt optional  that Mr H and 
Mrs H didnt have a choice in taking it out. So, with the very limited information I do have and 
from what I know about Leeds PPI sales around this time, I cant fairly say that they didnt 
have a choice about taking it. And I dont think it was added to their account without their 
knowledge or consent.
Leeds wouldve recommended the PPI, I say this because this is how it conducted its PPI 
sales at this time. So, it had to take adequate steps to make sure it was suitable for Mr H 
and Mrs H. I dont know what the adviser said to them about PPI or whether Leeds did take 
adequate steps. But I dont need to make a decision about this, because even if the bank 
didnt take adequate steps, I think the PPI was suitable for them for the following reasons:
 Mr H met the PPIs eligibility requirements, so was eligible for the policy. And Ive set 
out the PPIs costs and main benefits above.
 
Mr H was working at the time and says he had some occupational benefits from his 
employer if he were off work sick. But if Mr H couldnt work, nothing Ive seen 
suggests its likely they couldve paid the monthly mortgage and their other living 
costs once any work benefits he may have had expired.
 
Also, the mortgage was over a number of years and the PPI wouldve paid the 
monthly mortgage costs for up to 12 months for each successful claim  and on top 
of any other cover that Mr H had. So, I dont think Mr Hs existing cover wouldve 
made the PPI unsuitable. And the policy wouldve allowed them to use any savings 
they may have had had for other important things at what wouldve been a 
particularly stressful time.
 
There wasnt anything in the PPI that wouldve made it difficult for Mr H to claim. He 
told us he was employed and in good health  so he wouldnt have been affected by 
any restrictions or limitations in the policy relating to unusual work or known health 
issues.
 
I dont know that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr H and Mrs H 
before they agreed to purchase it. For this reason, Ive considered whether clearer 
information about the cost wouldve affected the decision to purchase the policy. But 
they did choose to take out the policy, knowing they would have to pay something for 
it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So, I think it unlikely 
they wouldve made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
 
So, taking everything into account, I think the PPI was suitable for Mr H and Mrs H.
Leeds needed to properly explain the PPIs costs, benefits, exclusions and limitations. It 
hasnt told us anything that shows what was actually said about this when it met with Mr H 
and Mrs H in December 1990. So, I cant say its likely Leeds did give them everything they 
needed to know before deciding to take PPI.
But did Mr H and Mrs H lose out as a result - would they have taken the PPI if Leeds had 
properly told them about it?
Ive explained why I think the PPI was suitable. Given their circumstances at the time I think 
they wouldve thought the PPI gave important cover to protect the repayments on their 
home. And that its costs and benefits were competitive and gave peace of mind. So, I dont 
think they lost out  I think they wouldve taken the PPI if theyd been given enough proper 
information about it. And as this was a regular monthly premium policy, if they decided that 
the cost was unaffordable, or that they no longer wanted the policy, they couldve cancelled 
it without penalty.
So, having considered all the evidence carefully, although I accept there may well have been 
some failings in how the policy was sold, Im not persuaded Mr H and Mrs H wouldve 
decided against taking it if theyd been properly informed. It seems more likely to me that they had some interest in protecting their mortgage repayments and chose to go ahead with 
the policy. 
For the reasons given, I am not persuaded that this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and the 
estate of Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman