DRN-1581448
The complaint
Mr L says Nextcredit Limited (Nextcredit) irresponsibly lent to him. Mr L says he had loans 
from other short-term lenders and was borrowing to repay his existing borrowing.
What happened
This complaint is about one short-term loan Nextcredit provided to Mr L in February 2018. 
Mr L borrowed £1,000 which he was to repay over 12 months. The monthly repayment 
amount was £167.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint and thought that taking into account Mr Ls 
known circumstances at the time the loan was given, there wasnt anything to suggest that 
he might have been experiencing financial difficulties and that Nextcredit shouldnt have lent 
to him. 
Mr L disagreed and as the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me to decide 
in my role as ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice  on our website.
Nextcredit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a borrowing 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Nextcredit should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered the arguments, evidence and information in this context and what 
this all means for Mr Ls complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the complaint and Ill 
explain why.
Nextcredit has told the service about the checks it carried out in February 2018 before 
approving the borrowing. It has said it asked Mr L about his employment status and he 
confirmed he was employed and had a monthly income of £3,500. Nextcredit also checked 
Mr Ls normal monthly living costs. Mr L declared these as around £300  comprising £200 
credit commitments and £100 other. Mr L was living at home with his parents. Nextcredit 
also said it verified Mr Ls income via credit reference agencies.
I think it was reasonable for Nextcredit to have relied on this information bearing in mind this 
was the first loan that Mr L had taken with Nextcredit and his stated monthly commitments 
were modest, in these circumstances it wasnt irresponsible of Nextcredit to lend to him.
Its possible that Mr Ls financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information he provided, or the other information Nextcredit obtained such as the results of 
its credit checks. And Mr Ls actual financial position may well have been apparent if further 
information  such as bank statements or more in-depth credit checks  had been obtained. 
But Nextcredit could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. In these circumstances  at the beginning of a lending relationship  I dont think 
Nextcredit needed to take further steps to verify the information provided. This could have 
included asking Mr L for evidence of his income and outgoings which Nextcredit could have 
gathered from his bank statements or copies of any bills.
I have considered the information Nextcredit was provided with when it carried out its credit 
checks. And there isnt anything in this information it has given us that may have led 
Nextcredit to conclude that it should decline Mr Ls application for this loan. And there isnt 
anything contained within the reports to have given Nextcredit cause for concern (at the 
proportionate level it considered them, bearing in mind this was the first loan Mr L applied 
for with Nextcredit) or to have prompted it to ask for more information from Mr L.
I know Mr L disagrees with this. He has told us he had other borrowing and was juggling 
multiple payday loans. But I dont think Nextcredit was wrong to have provided this loan, 
based solely on the information it gathered from the credit reference agencies and the 
information Mr L gave about his financial situation.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Nextcredit did for this loan was 
proportionate. And I dont think its decision to lend to Mr L was unreasonable.
 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.Catherine Langley
Ombudsman