DRN-3042693
The complaint
Mr W complains HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt deal with him in a fair way when he disputed 
transactions he made on his credit card and bank account.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 13 August 2021, in which I outlined and 
explained my preliminary findings on Mr Ws complaint. I have reproduced what I said in my 
provisional decision below:
The background is well known to all parties but I will summarise briefly:
Mr W used his HSBC credit card to pay a company I will call M in May 2017. The
payment was made towards a contract he signed with another company, R, to
secure his release from a holiday club membership with a third company (D), and
claim compensation. Mr W paid a larger sum by bank transfer to R a couple of days
later, via his HSBC bank account.
R passed on the task of securing Mr Ws release from his membership with D, to
another company, T. T wrote to Mr W in somewhat equivocal terms late in 2017
about having released him from the membership. However, it seems T failed to
secure the release because in early 2018 Mr W began to receive demands for
payment in relation to his membership with D and was threatened with debt
collectors.
Mr W spoke to Citizens Advice, and ended up seeking a refund of what he had paid
from HSBC. He relied on HSBCs liability under section 75 of the Consumer Credit
Act 1974 (CCA).
HSBC said it wasnt liable under section 75 because one of the key technical criteria
for a claim to be valid hadnt been met. It said that because the credit card payment
had been made to M, and not R, this broke one of the criteria, the debtor-creditor-
supplier (DCS) link.
HSBC began considering another way of obtaining a refund for Mr W, known as a
chargeback, late in 2018. It quickly gave up this idea because it realised it was too
late to obtain a refund via this route.
In the meantime, Mr W had brought his complaint to this service as he was dissatisfied with
HSBCs response. One of our investigators looked into the case. He considered HSBCs
argument that the DCS link had been broken, and thought the bank was wrong on this point.
He concluded R and M were associates, meaning it didnt matter that Mr Ws credit card
payment had gone to M instead of R. This, he said, meant HSBC was liable to give Mr W a
full refund of everything hed paid.
HSBC disagreed, and the case has now been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a person makes a payment for goods or services using a credit card, their credit card
provider may be able to help them in limited circumstances if something goes wrong with
what they have bought. The credit card provider may have a legal responsibility, or it may be
able to assist in obtaining a refund via the dispute resolution procedures operated by the
card network, typically referred to as chargeback.
Mr Ws Section 75 claim
Section 75 of the CCA allows a consumer to claim against their credit card provider if they
have paid a supplier of the goods or services, and that supplier has breached its contract
with them, or misrepresented something to them. Certain technical criteria need to be met in
order for section 75 to apply to a particular purchase. One of these criteria is a key point of
contention in Mr Ws case: the need for there to be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in
place.
Although this is an incomplete explanation, what having a valid debtor-creditor-supplier
agreement in place generally means is that the person making a claim needs to have used
their credit card to pay the same company they say has breached its contract with them, or
misrepresented something to them.
If the payment has been made to a third party then this will often cause the delicate chain of
connections to be broken, and for there to be no valid claim against the credit card provider.
In Mr Ws case, his credit card payment has not been made to R, which it seems breached
its contract with him. His payment instead went to M. On the face of it then, the necessary
criteria for him to be able to make a claim against HSBC under section 75 of the CCA, are
not in place.
However, our investigator noted that R and M were associates and this meant it didnt
matter that the credit card payment had been made to the latter. Our investigator was right to
say that, if two companies are associates as defined in section 184 of the CCA, then for the
purposes of a claim under section 75 of the CCA, a payment to one can be treated as being
the same as a payment to the other.
This is because section 187 of the CCA has the effect of making companies which are
associates interchangeable for the purpose of the debtor-creditor-supplier agreement.
What exactly is meant by associates is very specifically defined in the CCA. Just being
linked in some way, or having a commercial relationship, isnt enough by itself to make
companies associates. As defined in the CCA, two companies will be associates of one
another if they are controlled by the same people, or if people who control one company are
associates of people who control the other company. People are associates of one another if
they have certain familial relationships, or if they are in partnership.
Unfortunately, I think our investigator was incorrect to say that R and M were associates at
the time Mr W entered into the contract with R and made his payment. Ill explain further.
M had, as its sole shareholder from June 2014 onwards, a Mr S. He was also the company
secretary from September 2014. The same Mr S held a 50% shareholding in R from 1 April
2016 to 1 December 2016. I think Mr Ss position as a major shareholder and/or company
officer at both companies means they would qualify as associates between 1 April 2016
and 1 December 2016. Outside of this relatively small span of dates, the companies were
not associates as defined in the CCA. Mr W entered his contract with R and made thepayment to M in May 2017, outside of the range of dates when the companies were
associates. This means I cannot treat them as being one and the same for the purposes of
section 75, and it follows that the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is not in
place for Mr W to be able to make a claim against HSBC.
Ive thought carefully about whether, notwithstanding the fact R and M were not associates
at the relevant time, there was anything else about their relationship which means it could be
argued the debtor-creditor-supplier agreement was intact in this case. Ive thought
particularly about the case of Bank of Scotland v. Alfred Truman [2005] EWHC 583 (QB), in
which the court found the debtor-creditor-supplier agreement was intact in a scenario where
a firm of solicitors had taken credit card payments for one of its clients, a company importing
cars. The judge observed in the course of his conclusions, that other scenarios would need
to be resolved on a case by case basis and the liability of the creditor would depend on the
precise contractual arrangements between the parties. The judge contemplated that there
would be scenarios where the relationship between the parties would be too tenuous for a
valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement to exist. In the Alfred Truman case, the court had a
great deal of information about exactly what the business relationship was between the
solicitors and the car importer. Bearing in mind the fact the judge highlighted the importance
of the precise contractual arrangements in cases like this, we have attempted to obtain
more information about the relationship, and any agreement, between R and M.
The information which we have been able to obtain has been inconclusive, despite attempts
to contact the liquidators and individuals connected to M. Its clear enough that there was a
relationship between the companies, as otherwise I would not have expected M to take
payments for Rs customers. But I do not have enough information to establish what the
precise contractual arrangements were between them, and so I dont think I can reach a
conclusion that these arrangements were analogous to those in the Alfred Truman case. It
follows that I am unable to conclude there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in
place which would allow Mr W to hold HSBC liable for what has happened under section 75.
Should HSBC have attempted a chargeback?
I mentioned earlier in this decision that a chargeback was a way in which a card provider
could assist in obtaining a refund for its customer via the dispute resolution process operated
by the relevant card network (in Mr Ws case, this was VISA). I also mentioned that HSBC
considered whether it could try to get a refund for Mr W in this way late in 2018, but it had
concluded it was out of time to do so.
A chargeback is not something a consumer can demand their card provider attempt as of
right, but when faced with a consumer requesting assistance with a disputed card
transaction I would expect the card provider to consider attempting a chargeback, and to do
so if there was a reasonable prospect of it succeeding. I would also expect the card provider
to administer the chargeback process in a competent way, without making errors.
A common scenario in which a chargeback may be attempted is when goods or services
have been paid for, and they have not been received as agreed. Mr Ws dispute would fall
into this category, as it appears T (on Rs behalf) failed to release him from his membership
with D within the time agreed in the contract, and then went out of business. It also appears
his contract came with a guarantee of a full refund if he wasnt released from his
membership within 12 months.
Chargebacks are not always successful, as Ive suggested above. There are rules which
must be followed for chargebacks, and these are set by the card networks. Chargebacks can
be opposed by the recipient bank if they think the rules have not been observed. One aspect
of the rules concerns the window of time, following a card transaction, in which a chargebackmust be attempted.
The rules which applied at the time of Mr Ws transaction said that a chargeback needed to
be attempted within 120 days of the last date he expected to receive the service from R, so
long as this was no more than 540 days from the date of the credit card transaction. The last
date Mr W could have expected to receive the service from R would have been either when
the date in his contract came and went, and he remained a member of Ds holiday club (11-
12 May 2018), or when R called in the liquidators and this became public knowledge via
Companies House filings (11 June 2018).
Mr W first wrote to HSBC at the end of April 2018, long before any chargeback deadline had
expired. HSBC has more recently told this service that Mr W had provided insufficient
information to allow it to attempt a chargeback at this point. I dont think this is correct. The
rules stated that Mr W needed to describe what it was he had purchased, and certify that he
hadnt received it within the time promised and that he had tried to resolve the matter with
the supplier. The pack of documents Mr W had sent to HSBC contained all of these things,
and explained what had happened in detail. So the bank had the necessary information its
possession.
Its unclear why HSBC failed to consider the possibility of a chargeback until it was too late.
It appears it either misinterpreted the rules, or simply made an administrative mistake. But
ultimately the bank unfairly deprived Mr W of the opportunity to obtain a refund via this route.
I think there was a fair prospect that a chargeback would have succeeded in Mr Ws case, as
there was evidence he hadnt been provided with the service hed paid for, and was entitled
to a full refund.
Bearing this in mind, I think it would be fair and reasonable if HSBC treated Mr W as though
it had successfully charged back his credit card transaction of £1,444.32.
It is worth noting here that a chargeback can only be performed on a card transaction, and
(unlike section 75) it doesnt allow for refunds over and above the amount paid by card.
Mr Ws bank transfer therefore, is not something HSBC could have reclaimed via a
chargeback. This brings me on to the question of whether there was anything else HSBC
should have done for Mr W in respect of his bank transfer.
HSBCs responsibilities in relation to the bank transfer
In general a bank is expected to act on the legitimate payment instructions of its customers.
So when Mr W asked HSBC to make a payment to R, it acted in the way Id have expected it
to by doing so. It hasnt been suggested that the bank should have noticed anything
untoward about the transaction, or suspected it was connected to a scam. So I dont think
theres anything more Id have expected the bank to do here.
My provisional decision
I currently intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint in part. I think HSBC was right to say that
section 75 does not apply to this scenario, due to the lack of a valid debtor-creditor-supplier
agreement. I also dont think the bank acted incorrectly in respect of the bank transfer.
However, HSBC failed to consider the chargeback angle until it was too late, and given a
chargeback would have had a fair prospect of success the bank must treat Mr W as though it
had carried out a successful chargeback at the relevant time.
I said that I was minded that HSBC should do the following:Rework Mr Ws credit card account as though the transaction to M of £1,444.32 had 
been refunded when Mr W first wrote to the bank with the details of his dispute. Any 
interest, fees or charges which have been caused by the transaction must be 
refunded, and any negative credit file information removed.
If the step above results in Mr W ever having had a credit balance on his credit card 
account, then HSBC must pay 8% simple interest per year* on this balance, from the 
date it would have arisen to the date it would have ceased.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision. Mr W said he had nothing further 
to add. HSBC disagreed. It said that Mr Ws dispute with R had been too complicated to be 
dealt with as a chargeback claim and said it was curious to know what the description was of 
the service that R had not provided.
The case has now been returned to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt appear that either party disagrees with what I said in my provisional decision, 
except for the points I made about the chargeback process. So I will focus on these.
HSBC has said the dispute was too complicated for the chargeback process and that its 
unclear what service Mr W didnt receive. Although HSBC havent spelled it out, I take this to 
mean that they dont think they would have been able to explain, when making a chargeback 
claim, exactly what it was that Mr W hadnt received. They are therefore doubtful that a 
chargeback would have been successful.
Ultimately, we cant know what the outcome of a chargeback would have been because the 
window of opportunity to attempt one has passed due to HSBCs error. I dont think the 
information Mr W had sent to HSBC made it unclear what it was that he hadnt received, or 
that this was a dispute which was too complicated or subjective for resolution via 
chargeback. In my provisional decision I said the following about what the card scheme rules 
required to be included with a chargeback claim:
The rules stated that Mr W needed to describe what it was he had purchased, and certify 
that he hadnt received it within the time promised and that he had tried to resolve the matter 
with the supplier. The pack of documents Mr W had sent to HSBC contained all of these 
things, and explained what had happened in detail.
And I said the following about the facts of Mr Ws dispute as presented in his submission to 
HSBC:
A common scenario in which a chargeback may be attempted is when goods or services
have been paid for, and they have not been received as agreed. Mr Ws dispute would fall
into this category, as it appears T (on Rs behalf) failed to release him from his membership
with D within the time agreed in the contract, and then went out of business. It also appears
his contract came with a guarantee of a full refund if he wasnt released from his
membership within 12 months.
As I said above, we cant know exactly what would have happened had HSBC attempted a 
chargeback. There is of course a chance that it might not have succeeded. But its my view that a bank should attempt a chargeback where there is a reasonable prospect of one 
succeeding. If it fails to do so then it has unfairly deprived its customer of the opportunity to 
receive a refund via this route. I remain of the view that a chargeback in Mr Ws case had a 
reasonable prospect of succeeding and that HSBCs failure to attempt one has meant he 
was treated unfairly.
My decision therefore remains the same, that HSBC should treat Mr W as though a 
successful chargeback had been attempted.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, HSBC must:
Rework Mr Ws credit card account as though the transaction to M of £1,444.32 
had been refunded when Mr W first wrote to the bank with the details of his 
dispute. Any interest, fees or charges which have been caused by the transaction 
must be refunded, and any negative credit file information removed.
If the step above results in Mr W ever having had a credit balance on his credit 
card account, then HSBC must pay 8% simple interest per year* on this balance, 
from the date it would have arisen to the date it would have ceased.
*If HSBC considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct tax from this 
interest then it must tell Mr W how much tax it has taken off, and give him a certificate 
showing how much tax it has taken off, if he asks for one, so he can reclaim this tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and direct HSBC to take the actions outlined in the Putting 
things right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman