DRN-1337176
 
The complaint
Miss G has complained about loans granted to her by PDL Finance Limited trading as
Mr Lender (Mr Lender or the lender). She says the loans were unaffordable and that she 
was borrowing from several short term lenders at the time, which Mr Lender ought to have 
been aware of. Miss G also says that she was encouraged to rollover her loans when she 
could not repay them, that these loans trapped her in a cycle of lending and had a serious 
impact on her mental health. 
What happened
Mr Lender agreed five loans for Miss G between August 2013 and July 2014. The loans 
were all payday loans with one repayment and ranged in value from £117 to £850. The 
below table sets out some of the information Mr Lender has provided about these loans (with 
numbers rounded to the nearest pound).  
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Principal (£)Repayment 
(£)Term (days)
1 16/08/2013 27/08/2013 117 137 10
2 19/09/2013 25/01/2014 220 253 7
3 15/03/2014 27/06/2014 250 325 11
4 27/06/2014 25/07/2014 700 910 28
5 25/07/2014 05/05/2016 850 1,105 33
 
Our adjudicator looked into Miss Gs complaint and recommended that it be upheld in part 
and that Mr Lender refunds the interest and charges Miss G paid for loans 3, 4 and 5 and in 
addition the interest she paid for a fourth extension or rollover on loan 2. 
Mr Lender didnt agree with this recommendation but it did offer to refund the interest and 
charges Miss G paid for loans 4 and 5. Miss G didnt accept this offer and so the complaint 
has come to me, as an ombudsman, for review and final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending  including the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice  on our website. Ive followed that approach here. 
The Office of Fair Trading  (OFT) was the regulator when Miss G first borrowed from
Mr Lender. This changed to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) for her last two loans. 
The relevant rules and guidance set out by the OFT and the FCA were similar, with the FCA 
rules and guidance referencing what went before.Guidance issued by the OFT in early 2008 explained that its aim was to ensure that an 
appropriate standard of consumer protection was in place, telling lenders that the way you 
operate any aspect of a business may well be relevant to your fitness to hold a consumer 
credit licence. 
Irresponsible lending was included in this guidance as an example of an unfair or improper 
practice, and defined as being contrary to the provisions of section 25(2B) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974, by failing to take reasonable care in making loans or advancing lines of 
credit, including making only limited or no enquiries about consumers' income before 
offering loans, and failing to take full account of the interests of consumers in doing so.
In early 2010 the OFT published its Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) which set out the 
obligations on lenders before and after agreeing credit. 
Paragraph 4.2 of the ILG stated:
Whatever means and sources of information creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought 
being unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more 
than solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in 
question. 
Paragraph 4.3 stated:
The OFT regards in a sustainable manner in this context as meaning credit that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing problem 
indebtedness 
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time 
out of income and/or available savings, without having to realise security or assets.
This meant  that for all loans Mr Lender needed to check that Miss G could afford to meet 
her repayments in a sustainable manner, in other words being able to meet her repayments 
out of her normal income without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks Mr Lender needed to carry out in 
order to reasonably assess whether or not Miss G would be able to meet her repayments 
sustainably. But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This 
suggests that the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or 
for the same consumer in all circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Mr Lender says it asked Miss G for information about her income each time she applied for a 
loan. The lender recorded her monthly income as £1,512 for her first three loans, and £1,992 
for her last two. It recorded her total expenses as £860 for loan 3 which decreased to £457 
for loans 4 and 5, where her income had increased. Mr Lender also said that it gathered 
information about Miss G from a third-party credit reference agency but it hasnt provided the 
results of these checks. 
I think Mr Lenders checks for Miss Gs first loan were proportionate. The information she 
gave about her income didnt suggest that she couldnt afford the repayments and I dont 
think Mr Lender needed to do more here. I think the Lender ought to have asked Miss G 
about her expenses when she applied for a second, larger, loan the month after repaying her 
first to ensure she had enough disposable income to meet her loan repayment sustainably. 
Had it done so I think its likely shed have given a figure similar to that which she gave when 
she applied for her third loan, and so I dont think this information would have caused 
concern to the lender. 
I understand that Miss G didnt make her scheduled repayment for her second loan and paid 
an interest only payment (plus a fee) to extend it, not just once but four times. Mr Lender 
says that Miss G paid these interest only payments and the associated rollover fees on time 
and without any difficulty. It says that allowing a consumer to rollover their loan provides 
consumers with useful flexibility in repaying a loan and [is] not a sign of financial difficulty. 
The use of this facility is line with the relevant regulatory recommendation and cannot be an 
indicator that Miss [G] was struggling financially.
However, the regulations required Mr Lender to check that Miss G could afford to make her 
repayments in a sustainable manner. Successfully meeting her repayments doesnt 
automatically mean that Miss G managed to do so without difficulty, in other words without 
borrowing from elsewhere or going without. 
While I dont think granting a rollover is automatically a sign of financial difficulty, I think it 
can be and it depends on the circumstances. Miss G was supposed to repay her loan in a 
week and it took her four months to finally repay it, rolling her loan over four times. I cant 
say that in these circumstances Mr Lender took full account of her interests in allowing her to 
pay to extend her loan this number of times and so far beyond the original loan term. Ive 
also borne in mind that good practice at the time included limiting the number of times a 
consumer could rollover their loans. An example of this was encapsulated in the Consumer 
Finance Associations 2012 Lending Code for Small Cash Advances which said that lenders 
would not allow borrowers to extend a short term loan on more than three occasions. 
Altogether, I dont think Mr Lender ought to have allowed Miss G to rollover her loan a fourth 
time. 
Miss G didnt apply for another loan until over a month and a half later, this time for the 
slightly higher amount of £250. Notwithstanding this gap, I dont think it was fair of Mr Lender 
to continue to rely on the information Miss G gave when assessing the risk to her of repaying 
the loan sustainably, given how shed managed her second loan. I think it ought to have 
gathered a more comprehensive view of her financial situation and verified the information 
shed provided. I cant see that it did so, so I dont think the checks it carried out were 
proportionate for her third loan. 
Miss G has provided her bank statements from around this time, and I can see from these 
that she was borrowing from many other short term lenders. The amounts she had 
outstanding when she took out her third loan meant that she wouldnt have the means to repay this loan without further borrowing. I think its likely Mr Lender would have learnt this, 
had it carried out a proportionate check here, and it would have declined to lend to her. My 
conclusions are similar for Miss Gs fourth and fifth loans. 
Furthermore, by the time Miss G applied for her fourth loan shed been borrowing from
Mr Lender for over ten months. She took this loan out on the same day she repaid her third 
loan, (which again shed rolled over a number of times) and it was for more than twice any 
previous borrowing. I think at this point, Mr Lender should have realised that Miss Gs 
indebtedness was continuing and increasing and declined to lend to her. 
I think Miss G lost out when Mr Lender agreed loans 4 and 5 for her because these loans 
unfairly prolonged her indebtedness, allowing her to take expensive credit over an extended 
period of time. At that point the number of loans and the length of time over which she was 
indebted was likely to have been seen negatively by other lenders and so potentially kept 
her in the market for these high-cost loans.
Putting things right
As Ive explained above, I find that Mr Lender was irresponsible to have agreed to:
the fourth rollover on Miss Gs second loan (around December 2013)  
loans 3, 4 and 5 (taken out in and from March 2014)
 
In order to put things right for her, Mr Lender should:
refund the interest and fee Miss G paid to rollover loan 2 for the fourth time; and
refund the interest and fees Miss G paid for loans 3, 4 and 5; and
pay interest on all these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to 
the dates of settlement; and
remove any adverse information about Miss Gs borrowing recorded on her credit file 
from December 2013 onwards; and 
remove all information about loans 4 and 5 from Miss Gs credit file because by the 
time Mr Lender came to agree loan 4 any further information shown on her file was 
adverse in and of itself.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Miss Gs complaint and require PDL Finance 
Limited trading as Mr Lender to put things right for her as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman