DRN-4330860
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled his claim for the 
repairs to his van under his Mini Fleet insurance policy.
Mr W is represented by Miss W.
What happened
Mr Ws van was damaged in an accident in May 2022. He made a claim under his policy and 
Aviva arranged for his van to be repaired at one of its approved repairers. Mr W wasnt 
happy with the standard of the repairs and complained to Aviva about this. In the meantime 
Mr W bought a replacement van (in June 2022) and said he wanted the van insured under 
the policy to be written off. 
Avivas engineer said the repairs to the insured van had been carried out to an acceptable 
standard. But when Mr W said he did not agree, Aviva appointed an Independent Motor 
Engineer to check the repairs. He agreed with Mr Ws view that the repairs had not been 
carried out to an acceptable standard. And he provided a report to Aviva stating this and 
setting out the rectification work required. 
The rectification work was completed in December 2022. However, it doesnt seem Aviva 
told Mr W this until February 2023. And when an MOT was carried out on the van after the 
rectification work had been completed, it failed due to a number of major issues not related 
to the repairs. 
Mr W actually asked us to consider his complaint in November 2022. When he did this he 
mentioned being without his van had affected his business because he advertised through 
the signage on it. He also said Aviva had not taken into account his disability when 
communicating with him, despite being aware of it. 
We spent some time trying to establish whether Aviva had issued a final response on Mr Ws 
complaint and in obtaining information from both Miss W and Aviva. And we didnt actually 
start investigating Mr Ws complaint until May 2023. One of our investigators issued her 
assessment of it in August 2023. She said that Aviva had arranged for the rectification work 
required to Mr Ws van to be completed in December 2022 and that there was no evidence 
to suggest these hadnt been completed to an acceptable standard. However, she did note 
the unsatisfactory repairs and poor communication by Aviva had caused avoidable delays to 
Mr Ws claim. And she explained that she thought Aviva should pay £600 in compensation to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience this had caused Mr W. She also noted Mr Ws policy 
said Aviva would provide him with a courtesy vehicle at no cost to him. And she said that - in 
view of this  it should refund the £150 he paid to have a hire van. 
Aviva agreed with our investigators assessment. But Mr W didnt. Hes said, via Miss W, that 
he doesnt believe Aviva has been completely honest about what has happened, as it made 
no effort to contact him or Miss W to rectify the matter. Mr W would like an independent 
engineer to assess the insured van, as at no point have Aviva told him it is ready for 
collection. Miss W has also said Aviva have not addressed any of the injuries Mr W suffered 
in the accident giving rise to the claim. Shes also said that she and Mr W have found 
themselves very isolated for something that wasnt Mr Ws fault. Miss W has also said there 
was no pre-MOT because Mr Ws van had failed. And she has pointed out Aviva could not 
track down the lady who hit Mr W.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think I should say first of all that the complaint Mr W asked us to consider in the complaint 
form he completed was about the poor standard of the repairs to his van and the problem he 
had communicating with Aviva. And when he submitted this form to us in November 2022 he 
said to resolve it hed like his van written off. In view of this, I have not considered Miss Ws 
points on behalf of Mr W about Avivas handling of the claim against the third party. If Mr W 
wants to complain about this, our investigator can explain the process to him if needed. 
It is clear from the information provided by Aviva that its approved repairer did not repair    
Mr Ws van properly in the first instance. But the evidence suggests that it eventually carried 
out the rectification work required and that Aviva told Mr W his van was ready for collection 
in February 2023. I appreciate Miss W has said Mr W didnt hear anything from Aviva after 
November 2022, but Im satisfied from the contact notes it has provided that Aviva did speak 
with him in February 2023 and told him the rectification work had been completed. And that it 
said it could arrange for the van to be delivered back to him as the MOT had expired and it 
had failed the MOT test the repairer had arranged. It seems Mr W raised concerns and 
suggested the van should have been tested prior to the MOT being carried out. But none of 
the reasons the van failed its MOT had anything to do with the repairs to it, so there was no 
reason for the repairer to do any sort of pre-MOT check. 
In view of this, I agree with our investigator that Aviva do appear to have rectified the 
problems with the repairs to Mr Ws van. And that it told him about this  albeit  well after 
the work had been completed. So, it seems it was Mr Ws decision not to have his van back 
and I cant see any reason based on the evidence available why it needs to be written-off. If 
Mr W gets his van back and thinks it still hasnt been properly repaired, hed need to raise 
this with Aviva. And if he is not satisfied with its response he can then raise a new complaint 
about this. 
I also agree with our investigator that the standard of Avivas communication was poor and 
that this and the original problem with the repairs caused him significant distress and 
inconvenience. Having said this, as Mr W had a hire van and decided to buy a new van in 
June 2022, he was not without a vehicle for his business. And, although I appreciate Mr Ws 
business may have been affected to some extent by the fact his van was off the road; as the 
signage on it advertised his business, it would be very hard to quantify the impact of this. I 
also note that the majority of Avivas written communication was with Miss W. This means 
that whilst I accept it could have done much better with its communication, I dont think the 
impact was as significant on Mr W as it would have been if he had been communicating in 
writing with Aviva personally.
In view of what Ive said, Im satisfied the £600 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience recommended by our investigator is fair and I am pleased to note Aviva 
agrees. 
I have noted Mr Ws policy entitled him to a courtesy van whilst his was off the road. 
Although, it is a little unclear on what size this would have been. I say this because Aviva 
has suggested it would have been a small van, but there is reference in the policy to it being one of 3.5 tonnes. However, Aviva referred Mr W to a third party company to provide a van 
and claim the cost back from the driver of the vehicle which hit Mr Ws van. As a result of this 
he had to pay what seems to have been some sort of collision damage waiver fee to the hire 
company. This wouldnt have been necessary if Aviva had arranged a courtesy van. But Im 
pleased to see Aviva has also agreed to refund the £150 Mr W paid. And I agree with our 
investigator that it is fair for it to do so. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint and I consider the 
fair and reasonable outcome to it is for Aviva to pay him £600 in compensation for distress 
and inconvenience and £150 to cover the cost to him of having a hire van.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited and order it to pay him £750. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman