DRN-3348672
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd declined a claim under the buildings insurance cover
part of her home insurance policy. She is also unhappy with how QIC have handled the
claim.
Although QICs agents were also involved in this claim, for the purposes and ease of this
provisional decision I will refer only to QIC throughout.
What happened
At the end of January 2021 Miss C contacted QIC after a leak appeared in her kitchen
ceiling. Miss C said it appeared to come from the bathroom above, and only after the shower
had been used. Miss C had contacted QIC in January 2021 and discussed finding out the
source of the leak, but she didnt submit a claim until 2 March 2021.
QICs surveyor visited the property on 4 March 2021 before Miss Cs plumber came to
remove the shower. The surveyor concluded that in general the property was in a poor state
of repair. Their report noted no moisture in the bathroom or kitchen as the shower hadnt
been used for several weeks. The surveyor said the ceramic wall tiles grouting was decayed
and noted there had been attempts to reseal it with silicone. The surveyor noted that when
standing on the plastic shower tray the bottom row of wall tiles moved and opened at the
joints so, if using the shower, water would run down behind the loose tiles and onto the
ceiling below.
QICs surveyor noted in the kitchen there was a hole in the timber ceiling which was rotten
and crumbled in his fingers. And also reported they had found no plumbing apparatus at
fault. The surveyor said the damage to the property was due to a gradual process and there
were clear and obvious signs of failed seals and grout.
The surveyor left the property before Miss Cs plumber arrived to remove the shower.
Miss Cs plumber removed the shower later the same day. They told Miss C they thought
theyd found the cause of the leak. They explained that when any weight was put on the
shower tray it caused the shower waste to move to one side and allow water to pass
through. The plumber explained the shower tray wouldve weakened over time and
excessive movement caused leaks around the shower tray.
Both the surveyor and Miss Cs plumber provided their own photos.
QIC said they would not accept Miss Cs claim and in response to Miss Cs complaint about
this they said there was not enough evidence to say that what had happened met the
definition for a successful escape of water claim under the policy terms. QIC also said policy
exclusions would apply and noted in particular the damage had been ongoing for a
significant period of time. They said this because of the deterioration of the wooden cladded
ceiling. QIC said the policy exclusion relating to failed sealant or grout would also be
applicable.
Miss C also complained the surveyor had not been professional. QIC said Miss Cs concerns
had been referred to the surveyors manager. But as the complaint about what happened
during the visit was anecdotal, there was not enough to uphold this part of Miss Cs
complaint.
In April 2021 Miss Cs tradesperson  employed by her to repair the kitchen ceiling 
uncovered further problems with the joists supporting the kitchen ceiling. The tradesperson
noted, and suspected it was the fault of the previous property owners, that all except one of
the joists had been cut short therefore making the kitchen ceiling structurally unsafe.
Miss C had already brought her complaint to our service by this time and our investigator
reviewed the claim. In summary, our investigator said QIC should apologise for not
considering the leak may not have been down to only the loose tiles and failed sealant and
grouting, but did note that Miss Cs claim appeared to be excluded under the policy terms.
The investigator suggested QIC also consider the claim under the Additional Accidental
Damage section of the policy as they couldnt see this had been done. The investigator also
briefly commented on the more recent damage noted to the joists and said it looked like a
claim for sorting out the joists would be excluded as it was a problem that existed before
Miss C took out her policy.
QIC disagreed with the investigator. They replied to say the Additional Accidental Damage
part of the policy did not apply to these events and stated the problem with the ceiling had
evolved over time and was therefore excluded under the policy terms for being gradual
damage.
As the investigator couldnt resolve things the complaint has come to me to decide. On
receipt of the file I made some additional enquiries. Miss C confirmed to our service all her
works had been completed and provided submissions to support this. QIC were approached
to see if there was a means to resolve the matter informally, but in response they provided
some further comments and additional photos to support the damage Miss C was looking to
claim for had been caused gradually. QIC also confirmed that Miss C had never submitted a
claim for the damage to the joists being shortened.
I issued my provisional findings to both parties, a copy of which is below and forms part of 
this decision. 
My provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this matter I need to consider if QIC have treated Miss C fairly when considering her claim
under the terms of the policy. And having reviewed all the available evidence and
submissions, I think they have. Im therefore minded not to uphold Miss Cs complaint and Ill
explain why.
Miss Cs claim is under the buildings insurance section of her home insurance policy which
requires an insured event to have taken place. In this case, that is an escape of water.
Miss Cs plumber describes the leak coming mainly from the loose waste pipe beneath the
shower tray, while QICs surveyor (not having had the benefit of the shower tray being
removed) concluded water would have escaped behind the loose tiles and the decayed
grouting.
Ive reviewed what both parties have said and the available photos, and its not possible for
me to say which event most likely caused the leak and damage that Miss C submitted herclaim for  it is of course possible that both contributed to the damage. However, if I accept
there has been an escape of water in this instance, what is left for me to decide is whether
the cause of the leak is covered under Miss Cs policy terms.
Ive reviewed the policy terms with both possible sources of the leak in mind. Having done so
I think, either way, the damage Miss C is claiming for happened due to a gradual water leak
which is not something the policy provides cover for.
I say this because Ive seen photos of the wooden cladded kitchen ceiling that show signs of
rot, paint bubbling and chipping which all suggest gradual water damage. The submissions
also refer to rot in the joists and the joists crumbling to the touch, which again suggest
gradual water damage and therefore is excluded under the policy cover.
When deciding if it was fair for QIC to apply the exclusion for gradual water damage Ive also
considered whether this is gradual damage that Miss C was likely to have been aware of and
whether she could have done something sooner to prevent the problem worsening or let QIC
know about the problem sooner than she did.
Ive carefully reviewed the submissions including the photos from Miss Cs plumber and
tradesperson as well as QICs surveyor  including the recent photos QIC provided in reply
to my enquiries. Having done so, I think on balance Miss C would more likely than not have
been aware that something was wrong before the leak came through the kitchen ceiling.
As Ive mentioned, the available photos show the kitchen ceiling having signs of rot, paint
bubbling and chipping and I think its reasonable to say Miss C would have seen the state of
her ceiling daily given the relevant parts of it were unobstructed and largely lit by natural
light. I think its also fair to say that Miss C would have used her kitchen on a daily basis and
known the bathroom was directly above the kitchen and so could be the cause of any
problems. I also think its reasonable to say Miss C wouldve had some awareness that there
may have been a problem with the tile grouting in the shower given its condition and the
attempts to repair it with sealant.
Because of this, I think its fair to say Miss C more likely than not would have had some
awareness that something was wrong and she could have taken steps sooner than she did
to prevent the problem worsening by sorting it out herself or contacting QIC earlier.
Overall, Im therefore minded to not uphold Miss Cs complaint as I think QIC have fairly
applied the terms of the policy to Miss Cs claim.
I was sorry to hear Miss C discovered additional problems with the joists which had been cut
short. However, as noted earlier it doesnt appear Miss C in fact made a claim for replacing
the joists because they had been cut short, so QIC hasnt had an opportunity to review the
claim and I cant consider it as part of this decision. In any event, I did ask QIC for comments
on this. They have highlighted that any damage to the joists due to rot caused by water
damage would be excluded under the policy  and for the reasons Ive already given, I
agree.
Miss C can choose to make a separate claim for the joists being cut short for QIC to
consider. And if shes unhappy with their response to it, she will need to raise that as a
separate complaint. I note Miss Cs tradesperson also suggested approaching the surveyor
that carried out the survey of the property before she bought the house in case theres any
recourse for her there.
Lastly, I understand Miss C raised concerns about the professionalism of the surveyor who
visited the property when her son was there. However, Ive not seen anything here to sayQIC did something wrong in their handling of this part of the claim.
Responses to my provisional decision 
QIC replied to my provisional decision to say they had nothing further to add. 
Miss C responded to my provisional findings to say she was unhappy with the conclusions 
reached. To summarise, Miss C was unhappy because: 
The hole in the kitchen ceiling was caused by a plumber trying to find the source of 
the leak as shed been instructed to do by the insurance company. So Miss C says 
the hole in the ceiling was not due to the leak. And she said there was no visible 
damage to the ceiling that could be seen on a daily basis leading up to what 
happened. Because of this it was not fair to place weight on QICs photos rather than 
the discovery of the actual cause as found by the plumber who worked on the job. 
And QIC should have investigated the matter with her plumber. 
The issue with the shortened joists was only mentioned as additional information and 
Miss C said shed never discussed claiming for that issue nor did she claim for it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the matter again and taken into account Miss Cs additional comments, I do 
not think Miss Cs complaint should be upheld.
I recognise Miss Cs disappointment in my findings particularly given the financial impact of 
sorting out the problem herself. My findings are not intended to upset Miss C, but I have to 
consider what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case, and I think it was fair 
for QIC to decline this claim. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied the damage Miss C has sought to 
claim for relates to gradual water damage  something which is excluded under Miss Cs 
policy. In fairness to Miss C, consideration was also given to whether she would more likely 
than not have had any awareness that something was wrong. 
I understand the hole Miss C refers to was part of the plumbers attempt to understand 
where the leak was coming from  so Miss C would not have had the benefit of seeing the 
rot of the joists underneath the cladding. However, Im afraid this doesnt alter my 
conclusions. Given the available submissions (including images from all parties involved) the 
wooden cladded ceiling showed enough damage to suggest gradual water damage - other 
wooden planks not removed by the plumber showed damage at the edges suggesting rot, 
and there was also paint bubbling and chipping. Given the condition of the tile grouting as 
well, overall I think there was enough to suggest to Miss C that something was wrong. 
Miss C should note that my reference to what happened with the shortened joists was not a 
reflection on Miss Cs submissions about this nor any intention to misquote her. As it was not 
entirely clear to me what had happened with regards to the shortened joists, for 
completeness of my review it was necessary to comment on this to avoid any confusion 
going forward, and ensure clarity for all parties with regards to the considerations in this 
decision. 
I realise Miss C remains frustrated with QICs surveyor, but as Ive already said there is not 
enough to suggest to me that anything was poorly handled with regards to this part of the claim. QICs surveyor was not required to investigate the source of the leak with Miss Cs 
plumber and, in any event, there were two possible reasons for the leak  both of which 
would be excluded under the policy as Ive noted in my findings above.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman