DRN-2093565
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc handled a bounced cheque and says the 
bank provided him with incorrect information over the phone.
What happened
Around October 2019, Mr S issued a cheque for £356,284 which he says was for a house 
purchase. HSBC decided not to process the cheque. Mr S contacted the bank in November 
when he realised the funds hadnt debited and decided to carry out an electronic money 
transfer instead.
Mr S complained to HSBC because he hadnt been contacted after the cheque bounced. 
HSBC explained why it had rejected the cheque but agreed Mr S shouldve been contacted. 
To put things right, HSBC paid Mr S £200 compensation for the inconvenience it caused 
him.
Mr S also complained because he says he was misinformed when he contacted HSBC to 
query the bounced cheque and arrange the electronic money transfer. In its response, the 
bank acknowledged that he was indeed given incorrect information and paid him £300 
compensation for the inconvenience it caused him.
Remaining unhappy, Mr S asked this service to get involved. He says the potential impact of 
what HSBC did wrong couldve resulted in him facing significant costs and feels that £2,000 
would be fair way to resolve the matter. Our investigator felt the compensation HSBC had 
already paid was fair in the circumstances.
Mr S didnt agree because he thinks HSBC shouldve provided him with a better level of 
service. He also feels that the compensation hes been paid isnt enough to incentivise 
HSBC to get things right in future.
As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I share the investigators opinion and Ill explain why:
HSBC says the cheque was flagged because the payee name wasnt written in full 
and because it was for an unusual amount. Although it later transpired that the payee 
name was in fact correct, I dont think that HSBCs reasons for stopping the cheque 
were unreasonable. But, at this point, the bank shouldve contacted Mr S to query 
whether the cheque was genuine. HSBC already acknowledges that it shouldve 
contacted Mr S to verify the cheque  which I agree with  so I dont think theres 
anything more to say on this issue.
Mr S contacted HSBC by phone to query the bounced cheque and to make an 
electronic money transfer  he says he was misinformed about what he needed to do 
in order to complete the transfer. Ive listened to the calls and can see he was initially 
told hed need to visit a branch even though Mr S said he needed the funds to clear 
by a certain day. HSBC managed to arrange the transfer in a later telephone call. 
When it reviewed Mr S complaint, HSBC acknowledges that it provided incorrect 
information to him over the phone.
Fortunately, the funds were transferred in time and Mr S doesnt seem to have 
incurred any costs because of what HSBC did wrong. HSBC has paid Mr S a total of 
£500 compensation for the inconvenience it caused him. Considering the 
circumstances, I think this is fair way to put things right, so I wont be asking the bank 
to pay anything more.
Mr S feels £500 compensation isnt a good enough incentive for HSBC to get things 
right in future. But my role isnt to punish or fine the bank  my role is to establish 
whether I think the bank has done something wrong and, if so, explain what I think it 
should do to put things right. And I can only look in to the individual circumstances of 
this complaint, not what could happen in future.
In this instance, HSBC already accepts what it did wrong and, in my opinion, has 
fairly compensated Mr S  so I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
I wont be asking HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything more in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman