DRN-2877394
The complaint
Mr & Mrs P are unhappy with how National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) managed 
their ongoing business relationship following their failure to repay a loan by the agreed date.
What happened
Mr & Mrs P established a trust to ring-fence family owned assets  primarily a building and 
land known as The Old Vicarage - at which was operated a business. The business was a 
limited company, of which Mr & Mrs P were also directors. After an approach from NatWest 
in 2001, NatWest became the bankers to both the trust and the business.
In April 2008, NatWest refinanced a loan held by the trustees. The refinanced loan was for 
£435,000 and was for one year. This meant that, after the application of due interest, 
£460,000 was due to be repaid by the trustees to NatWest on 1 May 2009. 
The rationale behind this loan extension was that the trustees would use the monies to 
refurbish The Old Vicarage - a pre-refurbishment valuation of which was already 
considerably higher than the loan amount - and then sell the property, with the loan being 
repaid to NatWest from the proceeds of that sale.
However, the business that was based at The Old Vicarage experienced financial difficulties, 
and the nature of the business and its relationship with the property contributed to an 
inability to find a buyer for The Old Vicarage. This meant that the loan wasnt repaid when it 
became due in May 2009, and in June 2010 the business banking relationship was 
transferred to NatWests Specialised Relationship Management team (SRM)
Despite the ongoing intention to sell The Old Vicarage and the business being operated from 
it, this didnt happen, and in 2017 the lending was repaid from the proceeds of the sale of 
another property but not charged to the bank.
Mr & Mrs P werent happy with how NatWest had managed the business relationship and 
the ongoing loan in the years leading up to the eventual repayment of the loan in 2017, so 
they made a complaint.
NatWest looked at Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, but generally speaking, they were satisfied 
that they hadnt treated Mr and Mrs P unreasonably or unfairly in how theyd managed the 
ongoing business relationship, and so they didnt uphold the stated complaint points of Mr 
and Mrs P.
Mr & Mrs P werent satisfied with NatWests response, so they escalated their complaint to 
an Independent Third Party Review. This review upheld a part of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint 
about NatWest not honouring a previous agreement to reduce the interest rate on the loan 
and awarding calculated compensation accordingly. However, the review didnt uphold the 
other aspects of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
Mr and Mrs P remained dissatisfied, so they referred their complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked at this complaint, but they didnt feel that NatWest had acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in how theyd managed the ongoing business relationship in the manner 
that Mr and Mrs P claimed. So, they didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Mr and Mrs P werent happy with the view put forward by our investigator, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt free to consider every complaint thats brought to it.
The rules that were governed by set out the complaints we can and cant look at. Theyre
called the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules and are found in the Financial Conduct
Authoritys (FCA) handbook.
 
These rules include certain time limits. In particular, DISP 2.8.2 says that unless the 
business involved gives its consent, or unless exceptional circumstances apply, the 
ombudsman cant consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service more than:
 
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have become aware) that they had cause for complaint.
Having reviewed the complaint points raised by Mr and Mrs P, Im satisfied that the criteria 
referenced above applies to a number of these complaint points, and that as such these are 
aspects of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint that this service is unable to consider. These complaint 
points are:
a.NatWest unreasonably transferred the company overdraft in the name of The Old 
Vicarage (Ely) Ltd to the P Family Settlement Trust and promised a price reduction 
that was not forthcoming.
b.NatWest unreasonably failed to act on the Trusts instruction to remove Mr Mahers 
name from the trust loan and revise the legal charge. The bank lost the form TR1 (as 
they maintained they no longer held it but subsequently returned it upon repayment 
of the P Family Settlement Trust Loan)
c.As a result of NatWests inaction, the trust was unable to refinance the loan
d.NatWest used a security imperfection against Mr P as justification for not supporting 
the business
e.NatWest increased the margin on the loan without informing the trust
In relation to all the points listed above, Im satisfied that the points being complained about 
all occurred over six years ago and that more than three years have passed since Mr and 
Mrs P ought reasonably to have been aware that they had cause to complaint about these 
issues. 
Furthermore, NatWest havent given their permission for us to consider these points in this 
instance, and I cant see that the exceptional circumstances clause applies. As such, as 
stated above, Im satisfied that these complaint points fall outside the remit of this service to 
consider, and they will not be included in my review. 
However, Mr and Mrs P have raised several complaint points that Im satisfied can be 
considered by this service. Specifically, Mr and Mrs P say that NatWest:1.Behaved unreasonably and unprofessionally;
2.Had a malicious attitude that resulted in the loss of the Ps business, a close
relatives secure accommodation, and it caused damage to the Ps health
through worry and stress;
3.Acted unreasonably and failed to act on the trust's instructions;
4.Unreasonably failed to honour previous agreements;
5.Made no distinction between who owned particular assets and that it was clear that 
NatWest wanted to exit from the care home sector;
6.Unreasonably failed to acknowledge the differing legalities and tax implications
involved whilst treating the P Group as one customer and not as separate
entities;
7.Unreasonably failed to understand that the Trust debt was not a personal liability and
that it was not the responsibility of the Company to service the debt;
8. The trust offered to sell the main asset, the Old Vicarage, to repay the debt it owed, 
but this was refused by the bank. Subsequently the Ps had to sell other
assets to repay the bank;
9.Unreasonably required assets to be sold in order to reduce the debt;
10.Unreasonably failed to consider other assets or income when assessing the risk;
11.Unreasonably declined providing additional funding of £80,000.
Id like to thank Mr and Mrs P, and their appointed representatives, for the detailed 
submissions that theyve made to this service in relation to these complaint points. I hope 
that they wont consider it a discourtesy that I wont respond in similar detail here. Instead, 
Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key aspects of this complaint  in-line with this 
services role as a quick and informal dispute resolution service. 
This means that if I havent directly addressed a specific point raised by Mr and Mrs P, this 
shouldnt be taken that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read and 
considered all submissions made by both Mr and Mrs P and NatWest  but rather that I have 
considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly here in order to 
arrive at what I consider to be fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
It must also be noted that a key factor in my considerations of this complaint is that the loan 
that was due to be repaid on 1 May 2009 wasnt repaid. As such, I consider that NatWest 
would have been within their rights to have begun proceedings to recover the money owed 
to them on the expired loan at that time, and I dont consider that NatWest can be censured 
for maintaining a primary interest in seeking to achieve the repayment of the expired loan.
Mr and Mrs P have stated that they believe that NatWest behaved unreasonably and 
unprofessionally after the initial loan repayment date wasnt met. But its difficult for me to 
arrive at a similar conclusion, given what Ive explained above, and given that NatWest 
worked with Mr and Mrs P and allowed the loan to be extended and didnt receive payment 
to clear the loan until 2017  eight years after repayment of the loan had been originally due.  
Its also apparent that NatWest were aware of the nature of the business that operated out of 
The Old Vicarage and that their actions were guided, at least in part, by a desire to not 
unduly impact customers of that business who depended on the business continuing as a 
going concern.
And, given the information that NatWest were presented with for consideration, including the 
annual accounts of the business  which demonstrated that the business was making an 
annual loss at times during the period that the loan remained unpaid - I dont feel that the 
actions that NatWest did take with a view to protecting, so much as reasonably possible, 
their own financial outlay, can be considered as being unprofessional or unreasonable.Furthermore, having reviewed all the information available to me, I also havent found any 
evidence that NatWest displayed a malicious attitude of any kind or that NatWest 
deliberately failed to act on the trusts instructions. Indeed, in light of what Ive previously 
explained above, I can only conclude that NatWest displayed a high degree of forbearance 
toward Mr and Mrs P and the trust, especially given the on-going support provided by 
NatWest following the continuing non-sale of The Old Vicarage and therefore the non-
payment of the loan for several years past the original repayment date.
I note the correspondence from the representatives of Mr & Mrs P where they refer to events 
that took place post-2015, and that they feel that NatWests attitude toward Mr and Mrs P at 
that time was aggressive and bullying. It must of course be noted that neither I nor any of my 
colleagues were present at any face to face meeting that may have taken place, and so Im 
unable to comment on what took place at such meetings. However, theres nothing in any 
form of written correspondence that Ive seen that leads me to conclude that NatWest 
adopted an aggressive or bullying position, and it remains my position that NatWest sought 
to recover their overdue financial outlay by fair and reasonable means.
I also note the position expressed by Mr & Mrs Ps representatives that NatWest should 
have restructured the loan and that borrowing in the form of a regulated mortgage would 
have been more appropriate. However, Im satisfied that the historical actions leading to the 
provision of this loan, as well as the activity at the The Old Vicarage at that time, were such 
that the intention of the borrowing was to develop a property for sale and that a mortgage 
wasnt an appropriate form of lending to have been considered, given the circumstances.
Finally, I also note the position expressed by Mr and Mrs Ps representative that the 
repayments due on the loan exceeded the monthly income of the trust. However, the 
intention of the loan was that it would be a short-term loan pending the refurbishment and 
sale of The Old Vicarage, at which time the loan would be repaid in full. Because of this, Im 
satisfied that there was no requirement for NatWest to have assessed ongoing trust income 
and that the structure of the loan was fair and reasonable given Mr & Mrs Ps stated intent.
Mr and Mrs P have also stated that NatWest failed to honour previous agreements. Its my 
understanding that this aspect of their complaint refers to a promise made by NatWest to 
reduce the interest margin as reductions in the loan took place. This aspect of Mr and Mrs 
Ps complaint was upheld by the Independent Third Party Review, and NatWest have 
accepted the findings of that review and have recalculated the outstanding balance on the 
loan accordingly. As such, Im satisfied that this aspect of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint has 
already been resolved and I will not consider this point further.
Mr and Mrs P have also raised several complaint points regarding what they consider to be 
NatWests failures to acknowledge the distinctions between the trust and the business that 
operated out of The Old Vicarage  specifically, complaint points 5, 6, and 7 listed above.
However, given that Mr and Mrs P were both trustees of the trust and directors of the 
business, and given that the trust borrowed the money to renovate the property from which 
the business operated pending a sale of that property, and also that the sale of that property 
was hindered by the poor financial performance of the business at that time, Id find it difficult 
to censure NatWest for their general approach here, and Im satisfied that it was both fair 
and reasonable for NatWest to have proceeded in the manner that they did in seeking to 
secure a return on the financial outlay that remained outstanding.
Mr and Mrs P have also expressed their belief that NatWest wanted to exit the specific 
sector in which the business operated. I can appreciate how they might feel that this 
influenced NatWests management of their ongoing relationship, but it must be noted that if Mr and Mrs Ps contention here were true, that would be a commercial decision that 
NatWest would be entitled to make. Furthermore, throughout the course of my review, I 
havent seen any indication that NatWests wider commercial attitude in this regard has 
resulted in any unfair outcomes for Mr & Mrs P, and I remain satisfied that NatWests 
ongoing management of the continuing business relationship wasnt unreasonable, given the 
circumstances of that ongoing relationship as previously explained.  
Mr and Mrs P have stated that NatWest failed to recognise that the debt was not a personal 
liability of theirs. However, Mr and Mrs P did provide personal guarantees limited to £63,000, 
and the loan agreements also appear to confirm that Mr and Mrs P  as the defined 
Customers  had a personal liability in relation to the obligations of the loan (as per clause 
14.3 of the loan agreement). So, Im satisfied that NatWest werent making an unfair 
assertion by stating that Mr and Mrs P held a personal liability in this instance. 
Mr and Mrs P have also stated that NatWest failed to understand that it wasnt the 
responsibility of the business to service the debt. However, I havent seen any instance that 
NatWest sought any entity other than the trust to service the loan, and so I havent 
considered this point further.
Its also been alleged by Mr and Mrs P that NatWest refused to allow a sale of The Old 
Vicarage to repay the loan, and that because of this Mr and Mrs P had to arrange for other 
family assets to be sold in order to repay the loan. 
I havent seen any evidence to corroborate this position, and I must note that, given that the 
stated intention has always been to use the loan monies to refurbish The Old Vicarage, and 
then to sell the refurbished property to fund the repayment of the loan, I consider it highly 
unlikely that NatWest would refuse a sale of the very asset that it agreed would be sold to 
finance the repayment of its financial outlay.
Furthermore, its clear from NatWests continuing interaction with Mr and Mrs P that they 
recognise that the only asset over which they hold a charge was The Old Vicarage and I 
havent seen anything where NatWest make any form of insistence that Mr and Mrs P 
arrange the sale of other assets held by Mr and Mrs P or their family.
Mr and Mrs P have also stated that NatWest unreasonably required assets to be sold in 
order to reduce the debt. However, similar to the above, it seems clear to me that NatWest 
always recognised that the only asset over which they held charge was The Old Vicarage 
and that it was from the sale of this asset that the repayment of the loan would be funded. 
Its also clear that NatWest were keen that a sale of The Old Vicarage should occur, and 
NatWests position here seems reasonable to me, given the long-standing nature of the 
outstanding balance that they were owed. 
Ive also seen correspondence where the potential sale of other family owned assets was 
discussed, including the sale of a property which did take place in 2017 which resulted in the 
outstanding balance being repaid in full at that time. But I havent seen anything which 
indicates that NatWest were insisting that these other family assets be sold, and as 
mentioned, Im satisfied that NatWest have demonstrated throughout these events that they 
understood that they held no charge on any property other than The Old Vicarage and so 
had no right to insist on the sale of any other property other than The Old Vicarage - which 
as previously mentioned, was a right that NatWest did not exercise.
Mr and Mrs P also state that NatWest failed to consider other assets or income when 
assessing the risk posed to them by the ongoing loan. This complaint point is at odds with 
previous complaint points, and given that Im satisfied that NatWest have understood 
throughout these events that the only asset over which they held a charge was The Old Vicarage, and that they didnt hold a charge over any other assets owned by Mr and Mrs P 
or the wider family, Im similarly satisfied that it was reasonable for NatWest not to have 
considered any further assets beyond The Old Vicarage in any risk assessments it 
conducted.
Mr and Mrs P also believe that NatWest unreasonably declined to provide additional 
borrowing of £80,000. Its notable that this refers to an £80,000 overdraft requested by the 
business, and NatWest declined this request on the stated basis of the businesss trading 
performance at that time. 
Im aware that Mr & Mrs P, and their representatives, feel that NatWests assessment of risk 
wasnt accurate in this instance, and that had a more accurate assessment been made then 
NatWest should have concluded that the provision of such an overdraft was reasonable. But 
Im not convinced by that position, and even if it were the case that NatWests initial 
objections to the overdraft were met, it doesnt necessarily follow that NatWest wouldnt have 
declined the overdraft on some other grounds. 
Additionally, it must be noted that NatWest arent obliged to provide borrowing to any 
applicant, regardless of circumstance, so Im satisfied that NatWest declining to provide the 
requested overdraft was a commercial decision that NatWest were entitled to make.
All of which means that I find it very difficult to conclude that NatWest have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
NatWest to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr and Mrs P were wanting, but I hope they can 
understanding, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman