DRN-4116817
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as A, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus Bank) wont refund a payment it didnt make. 
Mr B, who is a director of A, brings the complaint on As behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
Cashplus hasnt disputed this concerns an unauthorised payment. However, in line 
with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund it because it 
asserts Mr B failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and 
keep As personalised security details safe.
In saying this, its pointed out how Mr B shared a one-time passcode (OTP) with a 
fraudster from a message he received from Cashplus which said: XXXXX is your 
code to verify the payment [amount] at [merchant] with card ending XXXX
Mr B accepts he shared the code. Hes said he did so as he genuinely believed he 
was speaking with Cashplus, given that the number appeared to belong to his bank, 
and they knew several pieces of sensitive information about him and A. He explained 
he focussed on the code in the message without reading the rest, as he was told it 
was needed to stop a fraudulent transaction. 
Having considered these circumstances, I can see how Mr B trusted the call was 
genuine  I think lots of people wouldve done. And while its arguably careless not to 
stop and read the message carefully, the test Im considering is whether Mr B acted 
with a very significant degree of carelessness to conclude he failed with gross 
negligence. Here, I can understand how Mr B simply shared the code when he 
trusted the caller was from his bank, the message came through as he expected, and 
he thought he was acting to sort out fraud on As account. 
It follows that I dont think he seriously disregarded an obvious risk in the 
circumstances. And taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Cashplus 
has shown Mr B failed with gross negligence. 
Cashplus submit that to not hold Mr B liable for sharing an OTP negates a purpose 
behind two factor authentication (2FA)  to stop fraud. It says that most people 
wouldnt share OTPs, so those that do are grossly negligent. 
2FA is indeed a mechanism to better protect against fraud. Afterall, without it, 
fraudsters couldve simply used Mr Bs stolen card details to make the payment. But I 
dont see how not holding Mr B liable takes away from this better protection. And I 
dont think it follows that all payments made using 2FA demonstrate gross 
negligence. 
Indeed, regulation 75 of the PSRs states that the recorded use of a payment 
instrument (which would include 2FA in this case) isnt enough to show gross 
negligence. 
And the FCA, in its guidance on its approach under the PSRs explains that gross 
negligence must be assessed on its merits to ascertain whether the customer has 
acted with gross negligence. In line with the recitals to PSD2, we interpret gross 
negligence to be a higher standard than the standard of negligence under common 
law. The customer needs to have shown a very significant degree of carelessness.
It follows that sharing an OTP isnt enough to show gross negligence  its got to be 
assessed against all the circumstances of what happened. Here, Mr B was duped 
into sharing an OTP when he was cleverly and plausibly tricked into believing he was 
talking with his genuine bank and it was needed to stop a fraudulent transaction. In 
these circumstances, Ive not been persuaded that he acted with a very significant 
degree of carelessness. 
Cashplus also submit that our approach is open to abuse, as all customers can claim 
refunds for payments by simply stating they were coerced into revealing OTPs. My 
role is to decide whats a fair outcome to Mr Bs complaint. And Cashplus hasnt 
submitted evidence to show that Mr B has acted fraudulently here, which it could do 
in line with PSRs to deny liability for an unauthorised transaction. So this point 
doesnt change my mind. 
So, while Ive considered Cashpluss points carefully, Im not persuaded its shown 
Mr B failed with gross negligence in the circumstances of this case. It follows that, in 
line with the PSRs, I dont consider A can be fairly held liable for this unauthorised 
payment and Cashplus needs to put things right  by refunding the unauthorised 
payment alongside 8% simple interest per year to compensate it for the time its been 
out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Cs complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
must:
Pay C the total of the unauthorised payment, less any amount recovered or refunded 
 I understand this to be £420.80.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payment to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Emma SzkolarOmbudsman