DRN-1240417
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that esure Insurance Limited (esure) has declined a claim they 
made for subsidence under their home insurance policy.
Mrs G has dealt with the claim and complaint throughout, so Ill refer to her in this decision.
What happened
Mrs G made a claim to esure after she noticed cracking to her conservatory and extension. 
esures surveyor (S) inspected the cracking and arranged for site investigations to be carried 
out to look at the subsoil and foundation depth near the damaged areas.
S accepted the damage to the conservatory and extension had been caused by subsidence. 
But it said this was the result of defective design because the foundations hadnt been built 
to the correct depth. It said there were guidelines for the appropriate depth of foundations 
when building near trees and these hadnt been met. S said the claim was declined because 
esures policy didnt cover damage caused by defective design.
Mrs G complained to esure. She said that when she bought the property, she had been 
given a certificate from the local authority to confirm the extension had been built 
satisfactorily the previous year. esure agreed with S that the cause of subsidence was 
shallow foundations, and this wasnt covered by the policy. Mrs G remained unhappy and 
brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said esure had acted unfairly when declining the 
claim. He said there was no requirement for the foundation to comply with the guidelines S 
had relied on. He was satisfied the local authority had confirmed the extension had been 
built according to building regulations. He asked esure to deal with the claim.
Mrs G accepted what our investigator said but esure didnt. It said the information S had 
mentioned were guidelines to the building industry which recommended minimum foundation 
depths when building in clay soils near trees. It said those guidelines hadnt been met when 
the conservatory and extensions were built  and if they had been the damage wouldnt 
have occurred. esure went on to say that this service had set precedents before which 
supported its approach. And finally, it said it didnt matter that the local authority had signed 
off the extension because the foundation was inadequate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that esure was unfair to decline the claim, so Ill be upholding 
this complaint.esure has accepted the conservatory and extension are suffering from subsidence as a 
result of clay shrinkage caused by a nearby tree. Its declined the claim because of a policy 
term which says:
we will not pay for loss or damage to your buildings caused by  inadequate foundations 
which did not meet the building regulations which were in force, at the time the foundations 
were constructed
esure has shown through the site investigations that the foundation for the extension is 
1,000mm deep and tree roots were found below that. Similarly, esure has shown that the 
foundation for the conservatory is 600mm deep and tree roots were found below that too. 
esure says that if the foundations had been built according to certain guidelines, they would 
have been deeper than the tree roots and there wouldnt be a subsidence problem. So Im 
satisfied the policy term relating to the adequacy of the foundation is relevant to this claim.
The policy term is specific that the standard by which the adequacy of a foundation is to be 
judged is building regulations  and those that applied at the time the foundations were laid.
esure told Mrs G her claim was declined because the foundations didnt meet guidelines for 
building in clay soil near trees. But the guidelines esure is relying upon and referring to arent 
building regulations  and these guidelines, it refers to, arent mentioned in the policy term 
conditions. So, I dont think its fair and reasonable to use these guidelines as the standard 
by which the foundation adequacy is judged.
The guidelines esure is referring to are applied by builders of certain new homes. Neither 
Mrs Gs conservatory nor her extension were built as part of a new home. So the builder had 
no obligation to take those guidelines into account.
For these reasons I dont think it would be fair to take these extra guidelines esure refer to 
into account when considering whether the policy term applies to Mrs Gs claim.
According to esures policy term, a foundation is only inadequate if it failed to meet the 
building regulations in force at the time of construction. Ive considered whether the 
conservatory and/or the extension failed to do that.
I think the crucial point is the extension was approved by Mrs Gs local authority building 
control after several inspections during various stages of construction, including laying the 
foundation. Mrs G has a certificate which says the extension met building regulations. esure 
says sign off by the local authority doesnt matter. So I understand what esure is saying and 
if the policy wording said the same thing, I could see the standards esure wished to apply 
and so would the policyholder.
But thats clearly the case here. esures own policy terms specifically rely on compliance with 
building regulations  which can be shown by local authority building control sign off. Im 
satisfied the evidence shows the extension met building regulations and therefore it wouldnt 
be fair to decline the claim for the extension based on the policy term.
Building regulations have an exemption for conservatories. As the policy term relies 
specifically on building regulations to decide whether a foundation is inadequate, I dont think 
it would be fair for esure to rely on the policy term to decline the claim for the conservatory. I 
dont think the policy specifically treats conservatories any differently. 
In its response to our investigator, esure said this service had set precedents which 
supported its approach. But this service considers cases on their individual merits and taking 
into account the particular facts of each case, the circumstances and the policy wordings.I dont think it would be fair for esure to rely on the policy term to decline the claim. To put 
things right, it should now deal with the claim.
Putting things right
Deal with the subsidence claim for the conservatory and the extension, both subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require esure Insurance Limited to deal with the subsidence claim for the conservatory and 
the extension, both subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
John Quinlan
Ombudsman