DRN-1563095
 
The complaint
Ms B made a request to Lloyds Bank PLC for copy statements. Ms B is unhappy that these 
statements were then sent to the debt collection agency who currently owned the debt, 
rather than to her directly. As a result of Lloyds disclosing this information to the debt 
collection agency, Ms B says a CCJ has been obtained and a charging order has been 
secured against her property. 
What happened
As I understand, Ms B received correspondence from a debt collection agency about an old 
credit card account and they were threatening to take her to court over the debt. Ms B 
contacted Lloyds to request statements so she could prove that the account had been 
settled. But Lloyds sent this information directly to the debt collection agency rather than to 
Ms B. Ms B says that due to this action, the company has managed to secure a CCJ against 
her and a charging order against her property. 
Lloyds has already looked at this complaint. They didnt uphold the matter. They have 
explained that the debt was sold to Cabot Ltd around June 2015. And as they were no 
longer the legal owner of the debt, any request for copy statements or documentation were 
forwarded directly to Cabot. Lloyds has stressed that any issues Ms B has post June 2015 
should be taken up with Cabot now. Lloyds has also explained that as Cabot couldnt get in 
touch with Ms B, their legal representatives proceeded with legal action and obtained a CCJ 
in their favour and then secured a charging order against Ms Bs property. 
As Ms B remained unhappy with the response from Lloyds, she referred her complaint to our 
service. An investigator has already looked at this case. Overall he felt Lloyds had behaved 
fairly and so he didnt uphold the complaint. As Ms B is still dissatisfied, this case has now 
been passed to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that notice was sent to Ms B around July 2015. Within this letter I can see that 
Ms B was advised that Cabot Credit Management Group had bought her account. And that 
Cabot Financial (Marlin) Ltd would be managing the account. I can see from the evidence 
Lloyds has provided that there was an outstanding debt owed by Ms B when her account 
was sold to Cabot.
As Cabot then owned the debt, I dont think Lloyds behaved unreasonably by forwarding the 
information in question to Cabot to deal with. Having carefully looked at all the evidence I do 
think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably by forwarding Ms Bs request about the outstanding 
debt to the current legal owner of that debt.Lloyds did, upon Ms B chasing, also send her the documentation which shed requested. I 
note Ms B is upset that Lloyds has breached her rights to confidentiality by disclosing the 
information they did to Cabot. Just like the investigator, I dont think this is something our 
service would look at. 
I appreciate Ms B will be disappointed with my decision. But on the evidence which Ive 
seen, I dont believe Lloyds has done anything wrong. So I wont be asking them to do 
anything further in this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020. 
Robyn McNamee
Ombudsman