DRN-3129525
The complaint
Mr M complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In February 2019, Mr M acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr M paid a deposit of £400 and was required to make 59 monthly repayments 
of just under £200. The total repayable under the agreement was £11,848.
Mr M says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included an automated credit check to assess 
Mr M's credit worthiness and indebtedness. It also asked Mr M about his income which it 
cross checked with the credit reference agencies and confirmed with Mr M. It says the 
repayments were equivalent to around 10.5% of Mr Ms net monthly income.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr M didnt agree and said a proper income and expenditure assessment didnt take place 
and that lending the amount to him over five years given his employment status and poor 
credit rating and history wasnt responsible.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Moneybarn said it cross checked Mr Ms income against information from the credit 
reference agencies and confirmed it with Mr M. However, given the overall size of the 
borrowing, the monthly repayments and the term of the agreement, I think it would have 
been proportionate for Moneybarn to have carried out further verification of Mr Ms income to 
ensure the repayments were affordable.
Moneybarn says it calculated Mr Ms expenditure using statistical data which it says gives 
average household expenditure figures which were then detailed in Mr Ms contract for him 
to confirm. While I note this check, I can also see the expenses recorded were £366 which 
seem reasonably low and in this case, given the size and term of the agreement I think it 
would have been proportionate for the expenses to have been verified.
Ive seen that Mr Ms income at the time varied but the average for the months leading up to 
the agreement was higher than that recorded by Moneybarn (£1,850). Taking into 
consideration the expenditure figures Mr M has provided and having noted his comments 
about certain payments being made in cash which are supported by the cash withdrawals on 
his bank statements, even if Moneybarn had completed proportionate checks, it would still 
have likely concluded the agreement was affordable to Mr M. For this reason, I dont think 
Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
Mr M has explained that he had a gambling addiction at the time of the finance being 
provided. I am sorry to hear this and understand this must have been a difficult time for him. 
However, I have nothing to suggest that Moneybarn was aware of this at the time and there 
are no records on Mr Ms bank statements that would have shown this and so I do not find 
that I can say this changes my conclusion regarding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman