DRN-3316091
The complaint
Mrs W complains Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) unfairly suspended the use of her credit 
card. 
What happened
Mrs W says she received a letter from Vanquis in late January 2021, advising her that she 
needed to take action to prevent her credit card being suspended, due to persistent debt. 
Mrs W says when she telephoned Vanquis on receipt of the letter she was told that no 
matter what actions she was going to take to increase her monthly payments, her credit card 
was going to be suspended. Mrs W says she never received any previous correspondence 
about this from Vanquis, and they are not acting in line with the guidance given by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Mrs W says this matter has caused her a great amount 
of stress during a difficult time for her and wants Vanquis to reinstate the credit card on her 
account. 
Vanquis says they sent various letters to Mrs W in 2019 and 2020, informing her about the 
persistent debt on her credit card account. Vanquis says these letters explained Mrs W 
needed to take action to prevent her credit card being suspended  but they heard nothing 
from her, until she telephoned them at the end of January 2021. Vanquis accept their advisor 
could have been clearer on that telephone call regarding the suspension of the credit card 
and paid Mrs W compensation for that. Vanquis says they have acted reasonably when they 
suspended Mrs Ws credit card and acted in line with the guidance set by the FCA when 
dealing with persistent debt. 
Mrs W wasnt happy with Vanquiss response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. She 
felt that Vanquis had correctly followed the guidance set by the FCA when dealing with 
customers in persistent debt. The investigator says Vanquis had issued letters informing Mrs 
W that she needed to take action to  increase her monthly credit card account payments, but 
she didnt. As a result, the investigator felt Vanquis had acted reasonably when they 
suspended the credit card on Mrs Ws account. Vanquis have also confirmed Mrs Ws credit 
file hasnt been affected by the suspension of her credit card.
Mrs W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mrs W to have been told by Vanquis her 
credit card was going to be suspended, even though she had made an offer to increase her 
monthly payments to her credit card account. 
When looking at this complaint, I will consider if Vanquis had acted reasonably when they 
suspended the use of Mrs Ws credit card.
Mrs W says that Vanquis have not followed the guidance given by the FCA when dealing 
with customers in persistent debt. Its worth explaining persistent debt is when a customer 
pays more in interest and charges than the amount repaid to reduce the borrowing over a 
set period of time  here on Mrs Ws credit card account. 
Mrs Ws complaint centres around the fact she never received any previous correspondence 
from Vanquis regarding the persistent debt on her credit card account, prior to a letter she 
received from them in late January 2021. Mrs W maintains on receipt of that letter she 
telephoned Vanquis and offered to make increased monthly payments, but they still insisted 
the credit card had to be suspended and it would make no difference what action she now 
took. 
Mrs W has further complained that a member of Vanquis staff gave misleading information 
after she lodged her complaint with them. While I understand Mrs Ws upset over this 
particular point, its not the role of this service to look at how complaints are handled by 
businesses, so I wont be commenting on this aspect of her complaint, although it is noted 
that Vanquis have paid Mrs W compensation for that. 
Looking at the issue surrounding the suspension of Mrs Ws credit card, what is important 
here is whether Vanquis have followed the process expected of them, when customers are 
identified as being in persistent debt (PD). From the information provided to this service I can 
see that Vanquis correctly issued PD letters to Mrs W at the milestones set by the FCA at 18 
months, in April 2019 and 27 months in January 2020. While Mrs W says she has no record 
of receiving those letters, I have seen copies of these addressed to her and in all likelihood 
they have been sent, and I cant hold Vanquis responsible for Mrs W not receiving them. 
Its worth saying in both of these letters, it points out the credit card could be suspended if 
action wasnt taken to increase the monthly repayment on the credit card account. From the 
credit card account statements I have seen, Mrs W only made the minimum monthly 
payment by way of direct debit and didnt increase the monthly payment as suggested by 
Vanquis. So, its reasonable to say Vanquis had correctly followed the process we would 
expect to see up until this point. Where I do have an issue is with Vanquiss communication 
surrounding Mrs Ws PD, between January 2020 and January 2021. 
I say this as while I can see a suspension of monthly payments was agreed in March 2020 
for three months, in line with guidance set by the FCA due to the Covid pandemic -  from the 
file notes provided to this service Vanquis intended to send two letters to Mrs W, in October 
2020 and December 2020, to advise her account had been in persistent debt for 36 months. 
In the proposed letter dated October 2020, from what I can see, Vanquis were looking to Mrs 
W for an income and expenditure profile to be completed, to decide on both the affordability 
of future monthly payments and importantly if the credit card could be retained- in line with 
their process.
As part of our investigation it has since been discovered, by Vanquiss own admission, the 
PD36 letters dated 7 October 2020 and 17 December 2020 werent sent, even though Mrs 
W was told they had been, in both the final response letter dated 12 February 2021 and  a 
follow up letter dated 25 February 2021. 
While I can understand, this may have been a result of Vanquis adapting its processes because of the impact Covid had presented, its also fair to say it didnt give Mrs W the 
opportunity to discuss any of the proposals those letters contained. I say this as from the file 
notes I have seen, the proposed letter dated 7 October 2020 would have given Mrs W the 
opportunity to discuss and complete an affordability assessment  but she wasnt. This is 
important here because as part of its PD journey, Vanquis have confirmed this assessment, 
formed part of its process in deciding whether a credit card could be kept or not.
With that in mind its reasonable to say Mrs W wasnt given the opportunity to discuss her 
repayment proposals until she telephoned Vanquis in late January 2021, following a letter 
she had received informing her credit card would be suspended. This letter simply informs 
Mrs W she has two options; to fix the monthly payments to pay down the credit card account 
or if unaffordable to contact Vanquis. I have listened to a recording of this telephone 
conversation and Mrs W says she is able to make additional payments, but no discussion 
was held over affordability or to tailor an affordable solution - the advisor simply notes Mrs 
Ws comment about her credit card being suspended unfairly, and then logs a complaint.
While Vanquis may not agree, its reasonable to say here, on the understanding Mrs W still 
feels she can increase her monthly repayments, she should then be given the opportunity to 
go through a detailed income and expenditure profile, as she should have been offered, 
back in October 2020. This would be in line with Vanquiss PD36 process under the FCA 
guidelines they refer to, and it will determine if Mrs W meets its criteria to retain the usage of 
her credit card account. In addition, I propose Vanquis pay Mrs W £250 for the trouble and 
upset this has caused.
Both Mrs W and Vanquis responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been 
passed back to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mrs W and Vanquis until 17 February 2022 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. As both parties have agreed to my provisional decision, I see no need to change or 
add to this and so my final decision remains the same.
Putting things right
I instruct Vanquis Bank Limited to allow Mrs W to complete an income and expenditure 
profile to determine whether or not she is eligible to retain the use of her credit card account, 
as they should have back in October 2020. In addition, I instruct Vanquis Bank Limited to 
pay Mrs W £250, for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Vanquis Bank Limited to allow Mrs W to complete an income and expenditure 
profile to determine whether or not she is eligible to retain the use of her credit card account, 
as they should have back in October 2020. In addition, I instruct Vanquis Bank Limited to 
pay Mrs W £250, for the trouble and upset caused.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman