DRN-4202626
The complaint
The estate of Mr B complains about the sale of a funeral plan to Mr B by Co-op Funeral 
Plans Limited. The estate is represented by Mr C. 
What happened
To summarise, in 2015, the late Mr B bought a funeral plan from Co-op. The plan was a 
tailor-made burial plan, costing £6,345. Mr B paid in full up front.
Sadly, Mr B died in August 2022. When Mr C redeemed Mr Bs plan, he was told a burial fee 
of £1,167 was not included in the price Mr B had paid. 
Mr C complained, saying Mr B had paid in full with the understanding that all of his funeral 
requirements would be met. Co-op said that only items ticked on the application form were 
included in the price.  
Mr C remained unhappy, so came to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator 
looked into things for him and upheld the complaint.  She thought thered been failings at the 
point of sale and that Mr B would not have been aware that he hadnt paid in full for all of his 
funeral requirements. She said Co-op should be responsible for the covering the third-party 
charge and it should not fall to the estate to pay.
Neither party has commented on our investigators view. Co-op asked for an extension to the 
deadline, which was granted, but no further information was received. So the case was put 
forward for a final decision, with a further deadline for comments sent to the parties. That 
deadline has also now expired without any additional responses. 
Im satisfied both parties have had sufficient opportunity to comment, so I now consider it 
appropriate to issue my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain my reasons, focusing on the key 
points. So, if I dont refer to a particular point or piece of evidence, its not because I havent 
thought about it. Rather, I dont consider it changes the outcome of the complaint. 
Co-op accepts responsibility for the actions of its sales agents. Its provided Mr Bs 
application form and some terms and conditions. The terms state that only those services 
itemised and costed on the application form are included in the plan benefits, although I 
note the terms provided post-date the sale of Mr Bs plan. 
The voluntary code of practice in place at the time indicates that Co-op shouldve provided 
Mr B with information about the type and cost of funerals and other services available and 
any costs which might not be met by the funeral plan.
Having looked at the application form I can see that Section 3 Grave Details (for Burial Plans 
only) is completed, recording that a grave has been purchased and giving the cemetery 
name and plot number. 
However, under Section 5 The Funeral Benefit/Arrangements, no charge is made towards 
third party costs for interment and grave diggers fees. I find this strange, as it was quite 
clear that Mr B wanted to be buried and in those circumstances these services were clearly 
necessary. So the sales agent was responsible for ensuring Mr B understood that if no sum 
was included for these services, the fees would be payable by his estate at the time of need. 
In light of the detail recorded in other sections of the application form about his wishes, and 
the significant amount of money Mr B was prepared to pay up front to assure himself that his 
wishes were taken care of, I think on balance the sales agent failed to provide Mr B with 
sufficient information about costs that would not be met by his plan, and consequently, Mr B 
reasonably believed that everything was covered. Im also satisfied if he had been aware of 
a potential shortfall, Mr B would likely have paid extra for the assurance that there would be 
minimal, if any financial impact on his estate, when the time came to redeem his plan.
Putting things right
Mr Bs relatives have been left with an outstanding sum to pay of £1,167. This has caused 
additional distress in the aftermath of bereavement. However, our rules do not allow me to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience to relatives or representatives of an 
estate, only to eligible complainants themselves  in this case, Mr B. But as Mr B would not 
have been aware of the issue with his plan, Im afraid I cannot make any award to recognise 
what I acknowledge has been an upsetting time for his relatives.  
However, I dont think Co-op gave clear information at the sale and Mr B lost out as a result, 
by not getting the plan and services he thought hed bought. So I think Co-op is responsible 
for the outstanding third party burial fees and should waive the £1,167 charge requested of 
Mr Bs estate. Mr Bs estate should not be required to pay it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about Co-op Funeral Plans Limited. I direct 
Co-op to waive the outstanding £1,167 charge, as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman