DRN-2255198
The complaint
Ms S complains that Vanquis Bank Limited trading as Chrome Card irresponsibly gave her a 
credit card account and later increased the credit limit.
What happened
Ms S says she opened the Chrome Card account whilst she was in an active Trust Deed 
and also had defaults registered on her credit file. She says Chrome Card should not have 
allowed her to open the account and the lending was unaffordable and irresponsible. Ms S 
would like all charges and interest refunded to her.
Chrome Card says the account was opened in August 2017 and Ms S told it she earned just 
under £50,000 with a household income of just under £100,000. It says it carried out 
proportionate and reasonable checks on the application and says the Credit Reference 
Agency (CRA) it used didnt have details of any County Court Judgements (CCJs), or 
defaults and there was no reference to a Trust Deed. Chrome Card says it then used a 
different CRA and saw a default but that was registered some three years before the 
application. It says it offered a credit limit of £1,000 and increased that in July/ August 2018 
after carrying a further review.
Ms S brought her complaint to us and provided evidence of the Trust Deed. Our investigator 
thought Chrome Card hadnt made a mistake by lending and thought all reasonable checks 
had been carried out. And thought Ms S had declared she was in full time employment with 
a household income of about £100,000. The investigator didnt think there was evidence on 
the CRAs that were used about the Trust Deed and that Ms S could have rejected the credit 
limit increase in 2018.
Ms S doesnt accept that view and questions why Chrome Card could not see the Trust 
Deed or the defaults.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Chrome Card carried out all reasonable 
and proportionate checks on Ms Ss application and on the later decision to increase the 
credit limit. I appreciate Ms S will be disappointed by my decision.
Lender should carry out proportionate and reasonable checks on applications for credit. 
Those checks will vary depending on the amount of the lending and the type of lending. 
There is no doubt here that Ms S applied for a credit card rather than a loan or mortgage and 
so I accept the checks will vary in those circumstances.
I can see that Ms S was in full time employment when she applied for the credit card account 
in 2017 and declared a household income of just under £100,000 a year. Im satisfied that 
Chrome Card carried out appropriate checks on that application and its provided information 
from the CRA it used which said Ms S didnt have any adverse information recorded against 
her such as CCJs or defaults. There is no mention of the Trust Deed. So, Im satisfied that 
proportionate and reasonable checks were carried out and I also think the initial credit limit 
offered was relatively modest. It follows that I dont think the original decision to lend was 
irresponsible or on the face of it unaffordable.
I appreciate that Ms S was subject to the Trust Deed that she entered into in 2014 and that 
she reasonably questions why that information was not recorded on her credit file. I cant 
answer that question. But I cant fairly hold Chrome Card responsible for information not 
recorded on a credit file and Im sure Ms S appreciates that Chrome Card relies on the 
information it is given. I make clear that even if that information had been recorded on the 
credit file then Chrome Card would have to decide if it made a material difference as by that 
stage the Deed was taken out some three years before.
I can see that Chrome Card used a different CRA from September 2017 which I find was 
after the original lending decision date and that CRA did have details of a default registered 
in 2014. I think that by July/ August 2018 Chrome Card was reasonably entitled to conclude 
that default had little relevance to its decision to offer what I think was a modest credit limit 
increase of £750. I also think Ms S could have rejected that increase if she wished to do so 
but didnt and I think at that stage Chrome Card did carry out further reasonable and 
proportionate checks on Ms S. And would have had the benefit of looking at her credit card 
account management since the account was opened which I dont think would have led to 
Chrome Card reasonably concluding the increase was unaffordable.
I appreciate Ms Ss account was defaulted but I can see that was in 2020. Overall, Im 
satisfied Chrome Card carried out appropriate and proportionate checks on both the original 
lending decision and the credit limit increase in 2018. I appreciate Ms S will have 
unanswered questions about why different CRAs didnt have information about the Trust 
Deed or defaults, but I hope Ms S appreciates that is not something I can fairly hold Chrome 
Card responsible for. And it may not have made any difference to a lending decision in any 
event.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman