DRN-3932712
The complaint
Mr A complains about the amount that Advantage Insurance Company Limited paid him 
when it proportionately settled his claim made on his motor insurance policy.  
 
What happened
Mr A renewed a motor insurance policy with Advantage and negotiated the final price. When 
he had an accident, he made a claim for the total loss of his car. Advantage then checked 
his driving history and it found that Mr A hadnt disclosed a driving conviction when asked. 
And it considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to settle 
the claim proportionately. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us, and our Investigator thought it should be not upheld. She 
thought Mr A should have disclosed the driving conviction when asked. She thought 
Advantage had shown that it would have charged him a higher premium if he had done so. 
And so she thought it was entitled to settle the claim proportionately. She also thought the 
proportionate reduction that Advantage had applied was correct according to its underwriting 
criteria.
Mr A doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He 
explained that he felt that he was being penalised because he had negotiated a lower 
premium at his renewal. He thought the discount should also be applied to the premium 
Advantage said he should have paid. He thought Advantage should compare the two 
undiscounted quotes to determine the amount he was underinsured. Mr A also said the non-
disclosure was an honest mistake and that Advantage had treated him poorly because of it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has explained that he felt that Advantages attitude towards him changed when the 
undisclosed driving conviction came to light. He said its level of service changed, that he felt 
like a criminal, and its delays in settling his claim caused him hardship. 
I can see that Mr A raised these concerns in his complaint form to us. But I cant see that he 
raised them with Advantage to give it a chance to respond. So I think its for Mr A to do this if 
he so wishes and, if he is unhappy with its response, then he can bring his complaint to us. 
Mr A also said that he understood that he was underinsured, and this wasnt his main 
concern. But I have reviewed Advantages decision as it led to the proportionate settlement 
of his claim. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Advantage thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he didnt disclose his driving conviction. I can see that the Statement of Insurance sent with 
his renewal invite states None disclosed for driving related convictions within the previous 
five years. And I think this was a reasonably clear question asked by Advantage about 
previous driving convictions. 
Mr A was asked to check his information was correct and notify Advantage of any changes 
needed. Mr A didnt tell Advantage that there were any errors in the Statement. But Mr A had 
a driving conviction within the past five years, and I think he didnt take reasonable care 
when he didnt then disclose this. 
Advantage has shown us evidence provided by its underwriters that shows that if the 
conviction had been disclosed, then it would have charged Mr A a higher premium. This 
means Im satisfied Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
Advantage thought Mr As misrepresentation was careless. And I think thats fair and 
reasonable as he has explained that he simply forgot about the offence at a busy time. And I 
can see that when he found it on the DVLA website, he immediately contacted Advantage to 
inform it. 
As Im satisfied Mr As misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Advantage can take in accordance with CIDRA.
As there had been a claim and Mr A hadnt paid the premium he should have paid without 
the misrepresentation, Advantage was entitled to settle the claim proportionately. Advantage 
paid 73% of Mr As claim. Advantage explained that the renewal quote accepted was 
£392.66. It said that had the offence been disclosed, the premium would have been 
requoted as £537.94. I can see that this includes the discount Mr A originally negotiated. 
I can understand that Mr A is concerned that 27% is a significant increase for one driving 
conviction. But I think its for Advantage to assess the risks its prepared to take and to 
calculate its premiums accordingly. Advantage has provided evidence from its underwriters 
that shows that the revised premium was correctly calculated. This evidence is commercially 
sensitive, so I cant share that with Mr A. But I can reassure him that it is correct. 
So Im satisfied that Advantage was entitled in accordance with CIDRA to proportionately 
settle Mr As claim. And Im satisfied from the evidence its provided that a settlement of 73% 
is correct. And so I think allowing Advantage to pay 73% of Mr As claim produces the fair 
and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman