DRN-2756135
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly declined his claim for damage to 
the property he lets under his landlord insurance policy.
What happened
I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and also here. 
Mr S owns and lets out a property, which he says he has insured with AXA since 2015. In 
July 2019 he claimed to AXA for malicious damage caused by his previous tenant and loss 
of rent. He said it cost him £11,200 to put the property right. 
Mr S said AXA repudiated the claim for the reason that he hadnt carried out credit checks 
on his tenant. He said hed informed AXA when he took the policy out that his tenant had 
been renting the property since 2009 and had always been on council support. Mr S said he 
wouldnt carry out credit checks as the tenant would fail this test. He said he had informed 
AXA of this and felt he had complied with the policy conditions, other than the credit check.
Mr S said AXA never told him of the importance of the credit checks and if this condition was 
critical then AXA should have made it clear in the renewal documents and policy summary. 
Mr S said AXA also refused to renew the policy in October 2019, which he thought was 
because AXA decided it wasnt suitable for him and he thought AXA had mis-sold the policy. 
Mr S said AXA hadnt responded to his correspondence from July to October 2019 and hed 
sent several reminders. Mr S complained to AXA and said it should pay him up to the claim 
limit of £5,000 and compensate him for the stress and inconvenience it had caused him.
AXA paid Mr S £150 compensation for its delayed response to his claim. But it said it wasnt 
obliged to renew the policy where circumstances have changed. AXA confirmed its decline 
of the claim and refused renewal as Mr S hadnt followed the condition requiring credit 
checks on tenants. AXA said that it was aware that Mr Ss tenant was in receipt of benefits 
and this wouldnt affect its decision to offer cover. It said it was the lack of credit check and 
inspection of the property that was the problem. AXA said Mr S purchased the policy online 
in October 2015 and there was no sales call. AXA said the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said the policy wasnt mis-sold 
but Mr Ss claim shouldnt have been declined. He said Mr S hadnt carried out a credit 
check on his tenant as required, but AXA hadnt explained why this was material to the 
claim, or what difference it would have made. The investigator said AXAs compensation for 
delays was fair, as was its decision not to renew the policy. 
AXA disagreed and requested an ombudsman review the complaint. It said the policy states 
the claim isnt covered if the conditions are breached. It said someone receiving housing 
benefit can still have a credit check as this may identify other adverse information allowing 
the insured to make a more informed decision about agreeing a tenancy. AXA has also 
made the point that Mr S didnt carry out inspections of the property as required by the 
policy.
My provisional findings and the parties responses
In my provisional findings I said the Statement of Fact AXA sent to Mr S as part of his 
renewal documents in 2018 records that his property is occupied by Council Support. Mr 
Ss policy provides cover for malicious damage and theft by tenants to a limit of £5,000. This 
section of the policy requires policyholders to carry out inspections of the property every 
three months and, obtain satisfactory credit references from a licensed Credit Referencing 
Agency prior to granting the tenancy with the tenant having given permission for this 
information to be released in the event of a claim.
Mr Ss policy states that if this condition hasnt been complied with AXA wont pay the claim. 
Mr S had said he didnt visit his property and authorised an agent to carry out inspections. 
AXA said Mr S didnt obtain credit checks for the tenants and there was a failure to inspect 
the property as required by the policy. 
I said the requirements for a credit check and property inspections are set out in the policy 
where we would expect to see them within the Malicious damage and theft by tenants cover 
section. I considered these requirements to be standard to landlord insurance policies and 
adequately advised to policyholders in the policy booklet. I didnt think Mr Ss policy differs 
from the standard landlord cover and I didnt think it was mis-sold to him. 
AXA said by undertaking a credit check the insured may be in a better position to take 
reasonable care of the property and deal with any damage if the tenant breached the terms 
of their lease. I think its fairly obvious why a credit check is important to an insurer. The 
insurer will assess a tenant who fails a check as placing the insured property at greater risk 
of damage or theft. The insurer is also on risk for loss of rent and will assess a claim for this 
as more likely. Its possible a credit check may reveal a previous default for rental payments.
I said I could see why it was important to AXA that credit checks were carried out. I hadnt 
seen any evidence that Mr S told AXA he hadnt carried out a credit check and I didnt find 
any justification for him not having done so. It didnt appear that property inspections were 
carried out by Mr Ss agents, but AXA is entitled to repudiate the claim on the failure to carry 
out a credit check alone. On this basis I thought it was fair for AXA to repudiate Mr Ss claim.
I said insurers are entitled to decide which risks they wish to cover and which they dont. 
This is a commercial decision with which our service does not interfere. It follows that AXA 
was entitled not to renew Mr Ss landlord insurance policy in 2019. 
I asked AXA about Mr Ss claim it paid in 2017 and why this was different from the present 
claim. AXA said the 2017 claim was for malicious damage caused by unknown persons to 
his garden wall. It said it was dealt with under the general peril of malicious damage and 
unlike the present claim the perpetrator was not thought to be a tenant. It said the exclusion 
in the policy is for damage caused by the insureds tenant or persons lawfully residing at the 
premises.
The policy terms show that the Malicious Damage caused by Tenants cover requires that 
the insured abides by a set of conditions noted in the policy, these conditions are precedent 
to the claim. I thought that it is these conditions with which Mr S hadnt complied.
AXA apologised and paid Mr S £150 compensation for its delayed response to his 
communications. I thought that was fair and I wasnt minded to ask it to pay any more.
In his response Mr S said AXA was wrongly suggesting he hadnt carried out inspections of 
the property as required by the policy. He said he had never told AXA this and in fact had visited the property more often than was required by the policy to make inspections and 
oversee repairs and maintenance work. He said his agents role was mainly to collect the 
rent, deal with the council re tenants and chase rent arrears.
Mr S said again that he had informed AXA that the requirement to undertake a credit check 
was pointless as the tenant would likely to fail being on benefits. He said if the credit check 
was a material condition of the policy then why didnt AXA make it clear at the renewal of the 
policy or require a copy of the check.
Mr S requested that AXA address these points. In response AXA forwarded information Mr S 
provided it in July 2019 about his claim. In response to AXAs question about the 
requirement for inspections at least every three months that are logged, Mr S wrote in 2019:
The property has been rented to the same tenant for many years and the letting agent 
carries out regular inspections depending on circumstances, once a year. Quarterly 
inspection is not a requirement under the lease agreement.
Concerning the credit checks, AXA said it treats tenants on benefits as in receipt of regular 
income and an acceptable risk. In response to AXAs request for evidence of satisfactory 
credit references, Mr S wrote in 2019:
The tenant is one with housing benefit for whom we do not do credit checks as they would 
fail as they do not work full time, the letting agent carries out the affordability checks with the 
documents the tenant give them.
AXA said the purpose of the requirement is to ensure the tenant has no issues paying bills 
and rent. It said it provides substantial and detailed information in its New Business and 
Renewal packs which are sent in advance. It said Mr S has a duty of care to read through 
the policy and ensure he complies with the requirements. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should not be upheld. I will explain 
my reasons.
Its obvious that the credit check on prospective tenants is important to AXA. AXA says it 
only requires evidence in the event of a claim, however I agree with Mr S that it would be 
preferable for AXA to require a copy of this before the policy is agreed. Notwithstanding this, 
I think the requirement for the check is clear from the policy booklet and the renewal 
information. 
The relevant condition within Mr Ss policy is as follows:
Obtain satisfactory credit references from a licensed Credit Referencing Agency prior to 
granting the tenancy with the tenant having given permission for this information to be 
released in the event of a claim.
I can see that Mr S doesnt think carrying out a credit check will tell him anything. I disagree 
for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, in that it would give an indication of the 
tenants ability to pay the rent for which AXA is on risk. More importantly, its a policy 
condition and therefore a requirement on Mr S to carry out the check.From what Ive seen this is a fairly standard requirement of landlord insurance and I remain 
of the view that the policy was not mis-sold to Mr S as it would have met his claim 
requirements had he complied with the conditions.
Im uncertain as to whether or not Mr S inspected his property as his response now and the 
one he gave in 2019 appear to differ on this. I havent seen any other information Mr S 
provided AXA about inspecting the property at the start of the policy. From what Mr S told 
AXA in 2019 it appears that AXA was entitled to reach the view that the letting agents are 
the ones who visit and carried out the inspections and only once a year. The policy condition 
requires quarterly visits that are logged and theres nothing to show that this has been 
observed.
Even without the potential failure of the inspection condition it seems clear to me that AXA 
was entitled to decline Mr Ss claim and cancel the policy on his failure to comply with the 
credit check condition in the policy.
I remain of the view that the £150 compensation AXA paid Mr S for its delayed response to 
his correspondence is fair. I think AXA acted fairly in declining Mr Ss claim and cancelling 
his policy and I dont require it to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman