DRN-3585786
The complaint
Mr As complaint relates to the maturity value of a joint mortgage endowment policy he and 
his ex-wife (Mrs H) held with Prudential Assurance Company Limited. He is horrified that 
Prudential paid half of the maturity value to his ex-wife without his authorisation, which he 
says resulted in her receiving over £1,000 more than she was entitled to. Mr H also doesnt 
think that Prudential made enough effort to ensure he was aware of the maturity and claimed 
the policy value.
In settlement of the complaint, Mr A wants Prudential to pay him the amount of the 
overpayment made to Mrs H and a sum for the mortgage interest he would have saved, 
had he paid the money off his mortgage immediately following the policy maturity. In 
addition, Mr A wants a compensation payment in the thousands of pounds to compensate 
him for what he considers are the inappropriate actions of Prudential, and the stress and 
grief he has suffered. Mr A asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs H held a joint mortgage endowment policy with Prudential, which matured on 
1 December 2017. Prudential wrote to both Mr A and Mrs H at their respective addresses to 
notify them of the maturity and provide the documentation they needed to complete to claim 
the money.
At the end of November 2017 Prudential separately chased Mr A and Mrs H, as it hadnt 
heard from them regarding the policy maturity. It asked them to complete the claim form(s) 
and return it as soon as possible. A further chaser letter was sent. As Prudential hadnt 
heard from either policyholder by 8 January 2018, it wrote to them again and confirmed that 
it had closed its file until it received instruction. 
Mrs H then wrote to Prudential. She explained that Mr A had dealt with claiming previous 
maturity claims, but she had been unable to contact him in relation to the current one. She 
confirmed she wanted the maturity settled and asked for Prudentials advice about how to 
proceed.
Prudential tried to called Mr A to discuss the maturity on 29 January 2018, and left a 
voicemail when he didnt answer. Further chaser letters were sent to Mr A in February 2018. 
Prudential explained that as the policy was a joint one, both policyholders were equally 
entitled to the policy proceeds and so it needed the authority of both policyholders before it 
could pay the proceeds out. It asked him to complete a payment authority form and return it, 
detailing how much was to be paid to each policyholder. It went on to say that if he didnt 
respond by 16 March 2018, it would release half the maturity value to Mrs H. 
Prudential confirmed to Mrs H that it had written to Mr A for his payment instructions and 
was waiting for his reply. In light of Mrs H wanting the maturity value paid, and Mr A not 
responding, Prudential paid out half the maturity value to Mrs H.
Mr A confirmed that in 2022 he located, in his home, the letters sent to him on 8 January and 
13 February 2018; they were unopened. However, he stated that he didnt receive the earlier 
letters. Nor does he believe that Prudential tried to call him, and left him a voicemail, in 
January 2018. Mr A has also said that he cant find any evidence of Mrs H trying to call him 
before she claimed half the maturity value.
Mr A was paid half the policy maturity value, plus interest, less tax on the interest, in 
February 2022.
Mr A complained to Prudential about it paying half the maturity proceeds out to Mrs H. 
Prudential didnt consider it had done anything wrong in doing so. It explained that 
irrespective of who paid the premiums, each policyholder was equally entitled to the maturity 
value. In addition, it was satisfied that there had been no delays caused by its procedures 
and administration in Mr A receiving his share of the maturity value. It did, however, 
apologise to Mr A about detailing an incorrect telephone number in an item of internal 
correspondence, which he had noticed and raised. It had been a human error and Prudential 
confirmed that the number had had never been associated with him on its records. A £100 
compensation payment was sent to Mr A for the concern the typographical error had caused 
him.
Mr A wasnt happy with the response from Prudential and referred the complaint to us. He 
explained that he and Mrs H had an arrangement, whereby following their divorce, Mr A paid 
the premiums in full to the policy in question and others. When the policies matured, the 
maturity value would be paid to Mr A and he would then deduct Mrs Hs share of the policy 
premiums from her share of the maturity proceeds. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She was satisfied that Prudential hadnt done anything wrong in paying Mrs H half 
the maturity proceeds. 
Mr A didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He reiterated that he felt he had been 
grossly unfairly treated by Prudential. He said that he considered Prudential had made an 
unauthorised payment to Mrs H and that it had failed to use all reasonably measures and 
means to contact him. This he considers would have involved using various methods of 
communication, different postal options and tracing his next of kin. He set out why he 
believed this and the losses he had suffered because of Prudentials actions. Mr A said that 
he wanted Prudential to admit that it had made an unauthorised payment and also wants an 
apology from its CEO.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my decision, I think its important for me to recognise Mr As strength of 
feeling about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions to support this complaint, 
which I have read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy; as no discourtesys intended. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, 
and if I dont mention something, it wont be because I have ignored it. It is because I didnt 
think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr A has said that Prudential didnt make enough effort to contact him in 2017 and 2018 
before it paid part of the maturity value out to Mrs H. While I note that he has said he didnt 
receive the maturity notification and the earlier letters, I am satisfied that they were correctly 
addressed. Although some letters do go missing in the post, the vast majority are delivered 
when they are correctly addressed. As such, I consider that it is more likely than not, as with the letters Mr A found unopened in 2022, the earlier letters were delivered to his home. I also 
note that, based on contemporaneous records, Prudential attempted to contact him by 
telephone in early 2018 and left him a message. 
While Mr A has indicated that he doesnt believe that Prudential sent the letters he has said 
he didnt receive or that it tried to call him, the available evidence doesnt support that being 
the case. I am satisfied that in sending multiple letters to the correct address and attempting 
to telephone Mr A, Prudential made appropriate and proportionate effort to inform him of the 
situation regarding his and Mrs Hs policy. The fact that Mr A didnt open the correspondence 
and may not have listened to the telephone message, isnt Prudentials fault. 
At the core of Mr As complaint is that he doesnt believe that Prudential should have paid 
any of the maturity value out without both his and Mrs Hs joint authorisation. When a couple 
divorces, a financial settlement is agreed, which should include assets such as joint 
investments like endowment policies. However, frequently it does not, and one party simply 
takes over maintaining such policies. When they reach maturity problems arise because of 
the lack of formal agreement as to the maintenance of, and proceeds from, the maturing 
policies. It is often the case that one or other of the policyholders cant be reached for some 
reason. 
As has been said previously, when it comes to a joint policy, both parties have a right to the 
proceeds. Unless a life assurance company has been told otherwise, that would usually be 
considered to be an equal right. While I note that Mr A has said he and Mrs H had an 
agreement between them about how much of the policy proceeds Mrs H would receive, 
Prudential wasnt told about the agreement as it related to the policy in question. Although all 
of the proceeds of previous maturities, with the agreement of Mrs H, were paid to Mr A, she 
didnt give the same instructions to Prudential on the policy in question. In the absence of 
such instruction, Prudential was reasonable to attribute each policyholder with the right to 
50% of the proceeds. If Mrs H accepting half of the maturity value was contrary to Mr A and 
Mrs Hs private arrangement, that would be a matter for them to discuss between them.
In this case, Prudential had both parties contact details, but one of the parties didnt respond 
and the other told it that she wanted the maturity proceeds to be paid out. As I have said 
above, it is not an unusual situation when it comes to mortgage endowment policies for only 
one of the policyholders to engage with the life assurance company, which can be the case 
for various reasons. In the circumstances, the life assurance company is placed in a difficult 
situation; it can either disadvantage the policyholder who is in contact with it by withholding 
what is reasonably their share of the maturity proceeds, or it can pay that share out and hold 
the remainder in the event that the remaining party contacts it or the one that has previously, 
proves they are entitled to the remainder. It has become quite normal industry practice for 
life assurance companies to pay out half the policy proceeds to a policyholder that requests 
it in such circumstances. As such, I cant find that Prudential acted unreasonably or 
inappropriately in doing so in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
7 December 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman