DRN-3315215
The complaint
Ms F complains about the transfer of her Junior ISA and then Stocks and Shares ISA, from a
third-party business, referred to as the transferor to Hargreaves Lansdown Asset
Management Limited, referred to as HL or the business.
Ms F is represented by her grandfather Mr H. In short, he says the delays were primarily
caused by HL, its staff shortages during the Covid-19 pandemic and service-related
administrative errors.
What happened
In early December 2022, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below 
and forms part of my final decision. In the decision I said:  
subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im minded to uphold this
complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the parties say, I think HL (as the
transferee) should pay Ms F £250 compensation  for the minor delays, helpdesk
(service/administrative) issues and the trouble and upset caused  which I believe is broadly
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Notwithstanding the £150 compensation offered, and the fact that Ms F was being assisted
by Mr H, Im recommending a slightly higher compensation amount because I think the
distress and inconvenience caused is likely to have been greater given Ms Fs age and
circumstances, which I dont believe have been fully considered.
The above notwithstanding, and despite what Mr H says, on balance Im unable to safely say
that HL is responsible for the losses claimed.
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much
recognise Ms F (and Mr Hs) strength of feeling about this matter. Mr H and the business
have provided detailed submissions in respect of the complaint, which Ive read and
considered carefully. However, I hope Ms F wont take the fact my findings focus on what I
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point or question raised under a
separate subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this
case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the
pertinent points.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr H and the business and reach what I
think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case,
rather than take any side. Despite what Mr H says, this service is not a consumer champion
and were not here to consider only the interests of the consumer. Its also not for us to
punish a financial business for any wrongdoing, thats the role of the FCA.
I appreciate that there are additional issues raised by Mr H relating to himself and other
(potential) complainants, that is (purportedly) being dealt with by HL separately  but it
doesnt form a part of this complaint. So, despite what Mr H says about him liaising with HL
directly, Im unable to deal with his other issues. In this decision, Im only considering the
actions of HL in respect of Ms Fs complaint.
I appreciate the investigator believes that the transferor (in the main) is responsible for the
delay. Im also conscious that Mr H probably wants to know which of the two businesses is
to blame, although hes convinced its HL. But further to my comments above, in this case Im
only considering the actions of HL.
In this instance, two independent parties were involved in the transfer process. One
business isnt responsible for the actions of another, therefore I cant say that HL is
responsible for the transferors actions, for example if it didnt respond when it said it would,
or didnt make clear what additional checks may need to be carried out and in what format.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says, Im persuaded that HL
is only responsible for minor delays in addition to the shortcomings HL already accepts.
On 21 August 2020, HL received the transfer application form (dated 15 August 2020) which
it processed and sent to the transferor. The transferor received the form on 4 September
2020.
I understand that matters couldnt initially progress because the form wasnt signed, and the
reference number didnt match  Im minded to think that HL, as transferee, probably ought
to have checked the form, to ensure that it was at least signed (and probably correctly
referenced if possible)  whilst processing it  before sending it to the transferor. I think HL
wouldve known, or ought reasonably to have known, that an unsigned form was unlikely to
be progressed by the transferor.
The above notwithstanding, Im aware that matters probably couldnt progress much further
in any case, because Ms Fs contact address and DOB didnt match the transferors.
However, the missing signature (and probably the incorrect reference number) wouldve
been two less issues to sort out in any case.
I note HL says that after checking its records for the address, it found this was different to
what was provided on the form, so its not at fault, but on balance I think it probably couldve
checked the details sooner, probably when processing the form.
In any case, I note Mr H says that Ms Fs address was (subsequently) changed when she
turned 18  and that the business was in due course notified. I note some matters were
resolved  HL received the correct reference number and home address by 27 October 2020
 but unfortunately not the correct DOB, which still that meant that matters couldnt progress.
I note HL wrote to Ms F on five occasions, between late September 2020 and late November
2020 without success. Im broadly satisfied that HL, in relation to the incorrect DOB, took a
proactive approach in trying to resolve this issue.
However, I also note that Mr H on behalf of Ms F called HL on numerous occasions but was
unable to get through. This was probably down to a number of reasons, including the global
pandemic and that the business (like a lot of financial businesses at the time) had a limited
workforce that was operating from home.
Im broadly satisfied that HL made reasonably clear its predicament and that it wasnt
operating as it normally would, and inevitably this would have an impact on its ability to
promptly answer all customer calls. Whether or not this was a problem created by HLs lackof planning to cope with a huge surge in parents and their children having to switch out of
the original trust fund on reaching the age of 18, as suggested by Mr H, I dont think this
situation generally justifies not dealing with Ms Fs queries, or not doing so within a timely
manner.
I note HL accepts that there was some helpdesk (service related) issues, and lack of
response to some enquiries. Im also aware of the number of calls made both by Ms F (and
Mr H) and the waiting times they endured, and the success rate of getting through was far
from ideal. I can see why Ms F (and Mr H) probably think that they wouldve resolved any
outstanding issues with HL if theyd been able to get through and dealt with better.
I note on 3 November 2021, HL also notified Mrs F that once Ms F turned 18, the junior ISA
would convert to a stocks and shares account and that Ms F will have control of her account,
and any security credentials set up will no longer work. HL also made clear that if it didnt
hear back from Mrs F (or Ms F) the account would still have its ISA wrapper and be shielded
from tax  however, it still needed Ms F to provide documents verifying her name and
address under AML regulations.
I note that by 12 November 2020, HL received a valuation from the transferor, which it
processed in due course, and sent back the acceptance via recorded delivery, on the
assumption that there werent any outstanding issues.
Its not entirely clear upon what basis HL made that assumption  receiving the valuation
probably doesnt of itself mean matters had been resolved. Given the history of the case, I
think it wouldve been reasonable and diligent for HL to confirm/check that the DOB wasnt
still an issue.
On the 17 November 2020, I note the Junior ISA was converted to a stocks and shares ISA,
bringing into play the additional documents that HL said it would need. As the DOB issue still
hadnt been resolved, the transferor duly rejected the request on 2 December 2020. Im
aware that the form had (probably) been filled about by Mr H which wasnt helping matters.
On 14 January 2021, the transferor received the new transfer application form but was
unable to accept it, as Ms F had turned 18. I also note that thereafter the wrong form was 
filled out and returned to HL by Mr H/Ms F  the correct form was subsequently supplied on
2 February 2021 which it received back on 23/25 February 2021.
I note that HL couldnt verify Ms Fs identification online  because of her age  so requested
documents in the post. I note it received the verification documents on 30 March 2021 
namely the matured child trust fund form and passport (from list A)  but it couldnt accept
her bank statements (from list B) as these were copies of her online statements. Despite
what Mr H says, this isnt something I can blame HL for. In a letter dated 12 April 2021 HL
asked for the list B documents, but on 29 April 2021 it unfortunately received back a copy of
the same document(s).
Im not seeking to blame Ms F or Mr H, who did what they thought would satisfy HLs criteria,
even though it didnt  thats not the point of my decision. I also make clear that businesses
are entitled to request these documents in line with AML requirements and thats not
something I can blame the business for.
I note that in response to receiving the wrong documents, and in an effort to move things
along, on 12 May 2021 HL recommended Hooyu as an alternative to Ms F providing the
necessary documents in the post. I note it followed Ms F up with a voice message on 14
May 2021 effectively urging her to use this.But in the circumstances, and on balance, I think HL probably couldve offered this service
sooner, on 12 April 2021 or at latest 29 April 2021, rather than waiting till May to suggest
this, in an effort to keep things moving. Im conscious that by this stage it was roughly nine
months since the request was first made.
I also note that previously in March 2021, HL (incorrectly) said that it would provide a pin
number to the account but subsequently told Ms F that it couldnt, as the security
checks/AML documents were still outstanding. Whilst I dont think HL was wrong to refuse
the pin number at that point, I think leading Ms F to think that shed have access to her
account (when she wouldnt) was likely to have caused her distress and inconvenience in
the circumstances.
I note that subsequently the outstanding AML documents were processed, and the transfer
authority was sent to the transferor. Ms F was also provided with the pin number on 5 June
2021, roughly four months after HL had erroneously told her she could have it.
On 8 June 2021, the transferor confirmed an address mismatch, so couldnt once again
process the request. It seems HL notified Ms F soon after and did so again in a letter dated
16 June 2021. On 18 June 2021, Ms F confirmed that her address had been updated with
the transferor and requested HL to re-submit the form which it duly did on 22 June 2021.
In a letter dated 1 July 2021, the transferor said that it was conducting AML checks of its
own and had written to Ms F for the documents. In response to a call from Ms F/Mr H on or
around 23 August 2021, HL chased the transferor again. It transpired that the transferor
couldnt accept photocopies of Ms Fs passport and documents and required a certified
copy, which was beyond the control of HL. On 27 September 2021, the funds were
eventually received - around 13 months after the request was initially made.
The above notwithstanding, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H
says, Im not persuaded that HL is responsible for the financial loss claimed, I do so for the
same reasons set out by the investigator.
Im conscious that this was an in-specie transfer request  so Ms Fs funds remained
invested throughout this period. Ms F (and/or Mr H/Mrs F) had the opportunity to sell the 
holdings and reinvest in new stocks at any point during this period if thats what she/they
wanted to do. Im mindful that Ms F had an execution-only account with the transferor,
therefore the decision to buy/sell shares was with her and/or her guardians, until she was of
age and could legally make her own decisions.
Any change in the value of her investment/or shares during this period isnt something I can
blame HL for. Thats primarily down to changes in the financial markets, and not something
that HL could predict or control. Im also aware that no guarantees were given as to what
she might receive. Given the reasons above, I also dont think HL is responsible for the
change in value Mr H now says Ms F wouldve invested in.
Whilst I dont doubt that Mr H has suffered significant distress and inconvenience dealing
with this case on behalf of Ms F, I should make clear that under the rules governing our
service, Mr H (as representative) isnt entitled to any compensation for distress and
inconvenience. Im aware Mr H might think that he is eligible to receive compensation but
thats not something I can ask the business to do.
I can only tell a business to pay compensation for trouble and upset experienced by its
customer, not by a third party. So, Ms F would be entitled to compensation but not Mr H. If
HL decide to pay Mr H any money  for his efforts to help his granddaughter  thats a
matter for the business.I note in a recent piece of correspondence, Mr H mentioned that in total 470 calls were
made, 74 of those took over an hour to obtain an answer, the rest took between 27 minutes
and 38 minutes to obtain an answer  after which point they just stopped keeping a record.
Im not suggesting that Ms F made all these calls  shes been fortunate enough to have her
grandfather assisting her. Nevertheless, Im aware that she did herself make numerous calls
and liaised with the business during a very important and critical stage of her life  during her
A-levels  in preparation for university. I note Mr H says she spoke to around 22 people. In
short, not being able to get through, or have queries unanswered/dealt with were likely to
have had an impact on Ms F.
For the reasons set out above, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what
the parties say, I think HL should pay Ms F £250 compensation for the minor delays, help
desk (service related) issues, and the distress and inconvenience caused, less any money
already paid.
I appreciate Ms F will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached a different conclusion to the
investigator, but I still havent given her what she wants. Whilst I appreciate their frustration,
Im not going to ask the business to do anything further.
Im satisfied that £250 compensation is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. On
the face of the available evidence, and on balance, provisionally Im unable to give Ms F
what she wants, other than the redress above.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider before I considered my final decision. 
HL hasnt responded to my provisional decision. 
Mr H responded but didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said:
The ombudsman seems to forgive some part of Hargreave Landsdown failures to the 
national plague (pandemic) which afflicted all organisations.
This not the case with Hargreaves Landsdown. Their mis behaviour commenced many 
months before and caused many persons enormous anger and waste of time because 
Hargreaves Landsdown FAILED to make any provision for the inevitable surge of parents 
wanting to transfer the funds that the socialist government contributed to and instigated and 
had to be transferred at the childs age of eighteen to a jnr. ISA.
They simply completely neglected to have enough staff or plans to cope with the volume of
work. The number of government under eighteen year old children was open knowledge.
For the UKs largest stockbroker to behave in this way is quite unforgettable. The work load 
due to this basic error coincides with childrens A level studies. All this was described by (the 
transferor) Hargreaves being in a chaotic state.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, notwithstanding the latest submissions from Mr H, my decision to uphold 
this complaint remains the same, principally for the same reasons as set out in my 
provisional decision. In other words, despite being given time to respond to my provisional decision, Im satisfied 
that no new material points have been made that persuade me I should change my decision. 
In this instance, and on balance, Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and 
have been considered by me, in my detailed and comprehensive provisional decision. So, I 
dont intend to re-address issues that have already been dealt with. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the parties say, I still think the 
complaint should be upheld and I think HL (as the transferee) should pay Ms F £250 
compensation  for the minor delays, helpdesk (service/administrative) issues and the 
trouble and upset caused  which I believe is broadly fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Notwithstanding the £150 compensation offered, and the fact that Ms F was being assisted
by Mr H, Im recommending a slightly higher compensation amount because I think the
distress and inconvenience caused is likely to have been greater given Ms Fs age and
circumstances, which I dont believe have been fully considered. Despite what Mr H 
suggests, Im not seeking to excuse the businesss behaviour because of the pandemic. 
The above notwithstanding, and despite what Mr H says, on balance Im still unable to safely 
say
that HL is responsible for the losses claimed.
Putting things right
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay Ms F £250 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay Ms F redress as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman