DRN-2817967
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Experian Limited deducted sums from her bank account for a monthly 
subscription service without her knowledge. She wants a refund.
What happened
Mrs S tells us that in 2010 she used a credit check service provided by Experian. She says 
that she doesnt recall ticking a box to agree to monthly subscriptions. She explains that she 
hasnt used the service since the first occasion. But that shes been charged ever since. She 
states that she wasnt notified about changes in the subscription fee. 
Experian told us that when Mrs S had registered for the service shed agreed to the monthly 
subscription. And that the charge might be changed. It said it had sent emails to Mrs S when 
the variations to the subscription were applied. Experian stated that as Mrs S hadnt used 
the service it had provided her with a gesture of goodwill and refunded her £125.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that 
Experian had done nothing wrong. And that as the service was available to Mrs S, Experian 
was entitled to charge for it. She felt the goodwill gesture of £125 was fair.
Mrs S didnt accept this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Part of Mrs S complaint relates to some dates which are more than six years before she 
made her complaint. Whilst these would usually be outside the jurisdiction of this service, 
Experian has given me permission to consider all the relevant dates back to 2010.
I can understand that Mrs S would be upset for having paid so long for a service which she 
hadnt used.
The basic facts of the complaint arent in dispute. Mrs S took out a monthly subscription 
service with Experian in 2010. This wasnt cancelled and charges continued to be taken. In 
early 2020, she noticed that sums were still being deducted from her bank account in 
relation to this service. Im aware the subscription has now been terminated.
Ive viewed the terms and conditions of the agreement - for which Mrs S had ticked a box to 
accept. These provided for a 30 day free trial. After which  if the subscription wasnt 
cancelled  a monthly charge would be made. The terms allowed this monthly charge to be 
varied. The terms and conditions also allowed for the service to be cancelled by Mrs S at 
any time, including by terminating the method of payment.
I accept that Mrs S may not have fully read the terms and conditions at the time she applied 
for the service. Most of us would find such reading rather tedious. But that doesnt mean a 
business cant rely on them where the customer has signified their agreement.
Ive considered what Mrs S has said about not using the service. And also not being made 
aware of the changes to the monthly charge.
Experian has provided information to show that emails were sent to Mrs S to notify the 
changes. And whilst I accept that due to a change of email details, she probably didnt 
receive these letters, Ive not seen that shed notified Experian of the change in her email.
It wouldnt be fair and reasonable to expect Experian to individually monitor the replies to the 
no doubt thousands of emails it sends out. Many of which I would expect to be automated.
As Mrs S didnt cancel the subscription, Experian continued to make the charge. Whilst Mrs 
S wasnt using the service, it was available had she wished to use it. So I cant reasonably 
say that Experian did anything wrong in applying the charge.
Id also note that the regular monthly deductions wouldve showed on Mrs S bank 
statements. Whilst I infer that she didnt notice them over the years, thats not something for 
which I can hold Experian responsible.
Experian has provided Mrs S with a refund of £125 as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs S has 
calculated that over the period shes paid around £1,800 for a service she didnt use.
I accept that the refund might not be particularly generous. But as Experian wasnt required 
to make any refund  as it had done nothing wrong  I cant say its been unreasonable.
In summary, I empathise with Mrs S and understand her disappointment and frustration. But 
I dont find that Experian has made an error. Accordingly, I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Experian Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman