DRN-3131000
The complaint
Mr W says he didnt receive the pension annuity he was entitled to from Phoenix Life Limited 
(Phoenix) between March 2009 and March 2019 inclusive.
What happened
Mr W had a pension annuity with Phoenix. This was worth about £95 every six months. 
In November 2008 he wrote to Phoenix asking it to make all future payments into a 
different account he held with the Co-op Bank.
When checking his affairs in 2019, Mr W discovered he hadnt received his annuity 
payments from March 2009 onwards. After contacting Phoenix in June 2019 to understand 
what had happened, the problem was identified. The sort code and account details hed 
provided in 2008 had been incorrect.
Mr W tried to resolve matters but felt he was getting passed between the 
businesses involved. Although he managed to get his account details put right for 
payments from September 2019 onwards, hes experienced problems in getting his 
missing pension payments returned.
Mr W says Co-op bank told him it had never received payments into an account with the 
details he provided in 2008. And while Phoenix gave him details of what payments had 
been made from its bank (Lloyds), it told him that if the account details hed provided were 
invalid his annuity payments wouldve been returned and placed in a holding account. But 
this hadnt happened.
Frustrated by progress, Mr W brought his case to this Service in October 2019. The 
investigator issued his recommendations in March 2020  he said:
To sum up I am not upholding [Mr Ws] complaint on the merits but I do recommend 
Phoenix Life to get in touch with Co-op through it's paying bank (Lloyds) by way of doing a 
tracing/faster payment query requesting a fund reversal from the incorrect account. And to 
resolve the issue I also ask Phoenix Life to pay [Mr W] his due share of the annuity payment 
in to his correct bank account.
Mr Ws first case was closed, but progress in trying to implement the investigators 
recommendations was slow.
Phoenix didnt provide Mr W with a full response until 14 January 2021. After liaising with 
the Co-op about the receipt of Mr Ws pension payments, Co-op attempted to make contact 
with the account owner. This failed and so matters couldnt be progressed. Mr W was 
unhappy with the outcome and raised a further complaint.
The same investigator considered what had happened and this time he upheld Mr Ws 
complaint. He wasnt satisfied that Phoenix Life and its bank had done enough to recover his 
pension payments. Phoenix disagreed and so Mr Ws complaint has come to me to review.
I issued my provisional decision earlier this month. I upheld Mr Ws complaint but not to the 
extent hed hoped for. Since neither party has provided any new evidence or arguments, I 
see no reason to depart from my initial findings and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, 
my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
I recognise the frustration this matter has caused Mr W. I can understand why he didnt 
discover the problem for many years. The amount of the annuity was relatively small. 
Certainly, had it been his main income Im sure the error he made with his instruction in 
2008 wouldve come to light much earlier.
I also understand Mr Ws expectation that he should now be able to recover his missing 
pension payments. After more than a decade these are worth over £2,000  a significant 
sum of money.
Of course, as Mr Ws brought his complaint against Phoenix, I can only consider its role 
in whats happened. As the investigator concluded in his first view, fundamentally it 
acted on Mr Ws instructions in 2008. It didnt do anything wrong.
But subsequently Phoenix was too slow to grip Mr Ws case. Whats happened to him is very 
unfortunate, but the issues were quite straight-forward. It shouldnt have taken it over 18 
months to get him a proper answer.
In responding to Mr W initially in July 2019, Phoenix provided him with information 
about what had happened to his payments between March 2009 and March 2019. And 
it made changes to his account details to make sure the problem was fixed.
Phoenix also told Mr W to make contact with the Co-op. It said it would be able to discuss 
the situation with his bank at the same time he attended his branch to help sort things out. 
This couldve been helpful, but it wasnt actually very sensitive or responsive to his situation 
 Mr W is a gentleman in his mid-eighties and fifty miles from his nearest branch.
Phoenix was prompted by the investigator in March 2020 to take the issue up with its 
own bank, Lloyds, which could contact the Co-op about the payments it had sent to one 
of its accounts and to try to recover the funds. Firms like Lloyds and the Co-op when 
acting as payment service providers must take reasonable steps to recover funds that 
have been mistakenly applied to an account, as was the case here.
This Services expectation is that when its told about a mistake, the sending payment 
services provider must contact the receiving payment services provider (the Co-op) 
within two working days. If the mistakes clear, it should ask the receiving payment 
services provider to prevent the money being spent. If the moneys still available and the 
recipient doesnt dispute what happened, the sender should get the money back within 
20 working days.
If its not possible to get the money back  for example, if its been spent or if the recipient 
says its theirs  the sender should be told about the outcome within 20 working days. The 
sending bank or building society should also tell their customer about other options, such as pursuing the recipient (although they wont be able to tell their customer who the 
recipient was).
Phoenix says it initiated action for a payment trace in April 2020, but it wasnt until June 
2020 the paperwork had been completed with Lloyds. Lloyds told Phoenix in July 2020 that 
it would only be possible to attempt a payment recall covering three years, although no 
explanation was given as to why this was the case. And on 4 August 2020 it wrote to 
Phoenix with the outcome of its investigations. It said:
Thank you for letting us know on 10 July [2020] that youd made a payment error of 
£381.24.
Weve been trying to recover the payment for you but have not been successful. Heres 
what weve done to try to recover the payment and what else you can do if you want to 
continue your claim for recovery.
Based on the sort code and account number youve given us, weve identified the bank 
that received the payment. We asked the bank to identify the person the account 
belonged to (the recipient) and to contact them to recover the money.
The bank has told us that the recipient has not responded to contact and therefore, 
they havent been able to return payment to you.
Lloyds letter goes on to suggest possible next steps for Mr W including seeking 
independent legal advice or support from Citizens Advice.
There are oddities with the account of events Phoenix gave us. For example, the 
payment amount quoted for recovery in Lloyds letter represents two years of Mr Ws 
pension payments, not three. And more significantly, the date of the letter shows 
Phoenix already knew that Lloyds has contacted the Co-op and the attempt to recall Mr 
Ws pension payments had been unsuccessful.
So, I dont know why Phoenix subsequently entered into effectively nugatory 
communication with Mr W after it had Co-ops answer. Perhaps different parts of the 
organisation werent joined up, which can happen in large businesses. Im also mindful of 
the Covid situation and working arrangements. But Mr W shouldve been a priority 
customer for the reasons Ive already mentioned. He shouldnt have had to wait for a 
proper answer until January 2022.
However, it seems clear from the information Ive seen that despite what the Co-op had 
told Mr W at one point, his bank had received the funds from his pension, and these had 
been credited to one of its account holders. The letter Lloyds sent to Phoenix confirms Co-
ops efforts to contact the recipient of his funds had so far been unsuccessful.
So, I cant agree with the investigator when he concluded that Phoenix should have to pay 
Mr W for his missed pension payments. That wouldnt be fair. It initially acted on his 
payment instructions.
Over a decade later when Mr W reported a problem with his pension arrangements, 
although Phoenix was too slow in getting to grips with his case, the investigations it 
eventually initiated confirmed the Co-op bank had received his funds. So, based on what Ive 
seen, I dont think its reasonable to conclude Phoenix hasnt provided the relevant evidence 
about what happened to his annuity payments.
Both parties have had some contact with the Co-op bank to date, either directly or indirectly. 
And what its said to them seems to have been at odds. I asked for sight of any 
correspondence but neither party has provided anything for me to review. Finally, Mr W will be aware that he can contact his bank the Co-op to ask it to confirm what 
actions it has taken to recover his money from its account holder who received the funds. 
And any other assurance and advice it can provide about taking the matter forward.
Putting things right
I asked Phoenix to provide an explanation of why its bank couldnt seek to recover ten 
years of Mr Ws pension payments. Why he was told Lloyds would look to recover three 
years of payments. And why this is at odds with the correspondence it had with its bank, 
which suggests only two years payments were the focus of recovery action. 
While these matters may be academic in light of Co-ops inability to contact their recipient 
account holder, it will be helpful to Mr Ws understanding of events. And it may help his 
efforts in any exchanges he has with his bank.
Phoenix Life Limited has failed to inform me whether its been in touch with Mr W to 
explain these matters since my provisional decision. So, if it hasnt, I now direct it to 
provide him with a full answer within 28 days of Mr Ws acceptance of this decision.
I also require it to pay Mr W £200 for the unnecessary delays and poor handling hes 
experienced. As Ive set out already, Phoenix shouldve given Mr W a proper answer much 
more quickly, reducing the trouble and upset he experienced, even though that answer 
wouldnt have been the one he was hoping for.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint but not to the extent he 
hoped for. I require Phoenix Life Limited to take the actions Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman