DRN-2690732
The complaint
Mr S complains that Loans 2 Go Limited mishandled the early withdrawal from a fixed 
sum loan.
What happened
 In January 2019, Mr S entered into a fixed sum loan with Loans 2 Go. The loan was for 
£500 and was due to be repaid over an 18-month period. The instalments were £113.28 
per month.
Mr S says that, when he realised the total amount that would need to be repaid, he 
decided he didnt want to proceed with the loan. So, eight days after taking the loan out 
he emailed Loans 2 Go and said he was pulling out.
Two days later Loans 2 Go responded to Mr Ss email and said it had logged his request 
to withdraw. It said that Mr S now had 30 days to pay back the loan amount together 
with the interest that was accruing. Loans 2 Go also set out the daily rate of interest that 
was being applied. The email informed Mr S he could make his repayment either via the 
phone or the website.
At the time Mr S had cancelled the loan, he also cancelled the first monthly instalment 
that had been due to be paid. He received a number of text alerts from Loans 2 Go that 
this payment had been missed.
Around two weeks after Loans 2 Go had acknowledged Mr Ss email to withdraw from 
the loan, Mr S emailed again, enquiring how long he had to clear his account. He also 
queried the texts hed been receiving about the missed payment.
Loans 2 Go responded saying he had 30 days from the date of its original email 
confirming receipt of his request to withdraw. It also explained that the account had gone 
into arrears as the first payment hadnt been made and the account was still live.
Mr S sent a further email asking about the time limit in which to pay the loan as he said 
he hadnt received a response. Loans 2 Go confirmed the date, the loan amount and 
the daily interest amount to be applied.
Mr S says he logged on to the website to make the payment and thought it would provide 
the outstanding balance, but no amount was shown. He worked out what he thought he 
owed and made payment. He sent Loans 2 Go an email explaining the amount hed paid 
and asking if he owed any more.
Mr S received a phone call from Loans 2 Go the following day, saying that there was still 
an outstanding balance of a little over £20. Mr S says at the time of the call he was 
driving, so he explained he would make the payment later that day. However, Mr S says 
he then couldnt recall the outstanding amount but had expected Loans 2 Go to send an 
email confirming the outstanding amount. This was because hed received an automated 
email response to his earlier enquiry saying he would be contacted in the next 72 hours.
Mr S says he didnt then receive any further contact from Loans 2 Go until July 2019, 
when he was informed his agreement was now in arrears.
Mr S contacted Loans 2 Go and said he hadnt received any contact as to the 
outstanding amount, and that it hadnt supplied the breakdown of what was due as hed 
requested. He complained to Loans 2 Go over the amount that it now said was 
outstanding.
Loans 2 Go didnt uphold his complaint. It said that the website wasnt able to access a 
customers account, so wasnt able to supply any settlement figures. However, Mr S had 
been provided with all the information hed required to settle his account. And that, after Mr 
S had made his payment, hed been advised over the phone there was a shortfall and had 
agreed to clear that amount, but then hadnt done so. It said nothing more had been heard 
from Mr S until July 2019.
Loans 2 Go said that the reason it hadnt contacted Mr S was that the payment made by 
Mr S had gone on to his account as an overpayment, and so his account had remained in 
credit until the funds had run out. This was because Mr S hadnt completed the withdrawal 
process and his account had remained open. However, as a gesture of goodwill, Loans 2 
Go said it would accept one monthly instalment of £113.20 in full and final settlement 
which was significantly lower than the current outstanding balance.
Mr S was unhappy about Loans 2 Go response and complained to this service. He said 
that it was unfair that Loans 2 Go hadnt responded to his email about the outstanding 
amount by email or tried to make contact before July 2019. He said he should have 
received statements and arrears notices before then.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She said that, 
although Mr S had paid the principle amount of the loan and most of the interest within the 
30 days of giving notice to withdraw, he hadnt paid the whole amount within that time 
frame. However, Mr S hadnt had the benefit of the loan having repaid it and our 
investigator said she thought it was unfair of Loans 2 Go to now seek such a significant 
repayment, when only around £20 had been outstanding. She said it would be fair for 
Loans 2 Go to write-off the outstanding amount.
Loans 2 Go disagreed with the view of our investigator and said Mr S had been aware of 
the amount of the shortfall he needed to clear to settle his account, and had agreed to pay 
that, but subsequently hadnt done so. As the withdrawal time period had lapsed it was 
within the terms and conditions of the agreement to seek the outstanding balance. Loans 
2 Go said its gesture of goodwill to accept the equivalent one months instalment in full 
and final settlement had been fair and reasonable.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint was been passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines.
Looking at the fixed sum agreement, which had been by signed by Mr S, there was a right 
to withdraw within the first 14 days of the agreement starting. And, if the consumer did 
withdraw, then they needed to repay the amount of the loan issued within 30 days. The 
agreement also said that if all the amounts were not repaid when due then the the 
agreement will continue. And that if the consumer wished to pay the loan off then Loans 
2 Go would send a settlement figure in writing setting out what you owe.
I didnt think it was disputed that Mr S had exercised his right to withdraw within the first 
14 days, and that this had been accepted by Loans 2 Go. It had informed him of the date 
the payment would need to be made by, set out that he would need to repay the loan amount, and then added a daily rate interest of just over £2.00 for each day he had the 
loan. Mr S said he wasnt sure how to calculate the daily interest rate he needed to add, 
and so had estimated the extra he needed to pay on top of the principle amount. I wasnt 
surprised Mr S hadnt been entirely sure how to work this out, and Id seen he sent an 
email on the day of payment to Loans 2 Go asking if hed paid enough.
Loans 2 Go phoned Mr S and explained there was a shortfall. Mr S hadnt disputed that 
his payment wasnt enough and there was an outstanding balance. Mr S said this call 
came when he was out in his car and, by the time he had arrived at his destination, he 
wasnt able to recall the figure. However, as the response hed received to his earlier 
email enquiry about what was outstanding was that he would receive an email reply 
within the next 72 hours, he had presumed he would receive written confirmation about 
the outstanding amount he needed to clear. However, this wasnt sent by Loans 2 Go and 
no further correspondence was received until July 2019, when the account was 
considered to be in arrears, and the settlement figure by then was considerably higher 
than the original £20 shortfall.
Loans 2 Go said that, as Mr S hadnt paid the full amount required to withdraw, then the 
agreement hadnt ended and, instead, his repayment had been credited to the account 
and treated as payments in advance. It was only when the amount credited had been 
used up by the monthly instalments that had fallen due that the account fell into arrears 
and contact resumed. While I appreciated the terms and conditions of the agreement set 
out it would continue in these circumstances, I didnt think Loans 2 Go had acted fairly to 
Mr S by not informing him that his agreement hadnt ended due to the unpaid shortfall. I 
couldnt see in the notes of the call that he was advised this would be the consequence if 
he didnt make this payment of £20. I also thought that it would have been fair for Loans 2 
Go to have provided the outstanding amount in writing to Mr S, rather than rely on him 
being told on the phone, particularly as at the time of the call it was aware he was on his 
way to work.
I appreciated that Mr S could have also done more as he was aware there was an 
outstanding amount due, so he could have contacted Loans 2 Go before hed received 
correspondence in July 2019. But I thought in these circumstances, it would have been 
fair for Loans 2 Go to make sure Mr S had known what he needed to pay and what would 
happen if he didnt.   
So, for the reasons given, I thought Loans 2 Go should have done more to assist Mr S 
having accepted that he was exercising his right to withdraw from the agreement. I 
thought it would be fair for Loans 2 Go to write off the outstanding balance in full and 
remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ss credit file.
As I thought Mr S could have assisted himself more than he had I wasnt going to ask 
Loans 2 Go to pay him any compensation for its handling of his withdrawal from the 
fixed loan agreement.
Both Mr S and Loans 2 Go have agreed with my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although neither party has asked me to look again at my provisional decision, Ive still 
reviewed it carefully. Im satisfied on the evidence thats been provided that Loans 2 Go 
could have done more to assist Mr S in these circumstances. And for the reasons set out above Im upholding his complaint.
I also havent changed my view that I think its fair in light of Mr Ss lack of contact with 
Loans 2 You that I dont ask it to pay him compensation for the way it handled his 
withdrawing from the fixed loan agreement. 
Putting things right
Im asking Loans 2 Go Limited to write off the outstanding balance on Mr Ss account 
and remove any adverse information recorded on his credit file about this agreement.
My final decision
 As set out above Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Im asking Loans 2 Go Limited to write off 
the outstanding balance on Mr Ss account and remove any adverse information recorded on 
his credit file about this agreement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman