DRN-2445432
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about the service received from their insurer, Evolution Insurance 
Company Limited (Evolution) for their insurance backed guarantee scheme policy (the 
policy). They are unhappy at Evolution rejecting their claim for problems that arose in 
building work carried out at their house.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs T had building work carried out at their house based on an estimate provided by 
a building company in July 2018, with the work being completed in October 2018.  Shortly 
after completion problems emerged including tiles lifting off a roof, leaking gutters and 
missing seals from bi-folding doors. Mr and Mrs T contacted the building company and 
asked them to rectify the problems, but they were unable to rectify them. Further issues were 
subsequently identified when the local council inspected the works for compliance with 
building regulations and found that the footings for the building work were not compliant.
 
Mr and Mrs T subsequently raised their concerns with the administrator of the policy. The 
administrator told them that as the building company had not been wound up, and was 
registered as trading, they were unable to assist Mr and Mrs T. Mr and Mrs T contacted the 
administrator again in October 2019, who told them that while the building company were no 
longer members of their association, on checking the Companies House website the 
company was still showing as active and therefore the administrator could not assist them. 
The administrator also stated that their policy only came into force when a contractor ceased 
to trade due to liquidation, bankruptcy, administration, receivership, state retirement or death 
of the principal.
Mr and Mrs T contacted the administrator again in February 2020, stating that the building 
company was no longer trading and had gone into liquidation. They also asked if their policy 
was valid. The administrator asked Mr and Mrs T to complete a claim form and return it to 
them, noting that its return did not constitute an acceptance of a claim or liability. The 
administrator further confirmed in March 2020 that Mr and Mrs Ts claim had been passed to 
Evolution as the insurer of the policy.
Evolution responded to Mr and Mrs T in April 2020, stating that they considered the claim 
was not covered under their policy. Specifically, Evolution referred to an exclusion within the 
terms of and conditions of the policy that stated:
The insurer shall not be liable for:
11. Any defect that occurred (whether notified or not) prior to the installer Ceasing to 
Trade.
Evolution also set out the definition of Ceasing to Trade under the terms and conditions of 
the policy:
Ceased Trading: means ceasing to trade, for limited companies and limited liability 
partnerships, the appointment of a Liquidator, Receiver or Administrator
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy at their claim being rejected and raised their concerns with the 
administrator, who advised them to complain to Evolution as the insurer. Mr and Mrs T then 
complained to this service in June 2020.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that Evolution had acted 
reasonably in rejecting Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, based on the exclusion clause contained 
in the policy. The investigator concluded that Evolution was therefore not responsible for 
fixing the defects that arose. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the investigator and requested an 
ombudsman review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is the decide whether Evolution has acted fairly towards Mr and Mrs T.
  
The circumstances of the complaint indicate that there were problems with the building work 
carried out at Mr and Mrs Ts home, and that they raised these concerns with the building 
company in the first instance as I would have expected them to do. It is unfortunate that the 
building company were not able to fix the problems, and that subsequent issues were 
identified as a result of the inspection by the local council. I note from the correspondence 
between Mr and Mrs T with the building company in December 2018 and January 2019 that 
there was an issue with illness on the part of the principal of the company that also affected 
their ability to fix the problems. It is also understandable that Mr and Mrs T contacted the 
administrator of the policy when they were unable to contact the building company, and that 
they thought that they would be able to claim for the cost of repairs on their policy.
However, the policy is designed to provide cover in the situation where faults arise with work 
at a point where the contractor has ceased trading, and therefore there is no means for the 
consumer to seek redress from the contractor. It is unfortunate for Mr and Mrs T that they 
have had to bear the cost of the repairs through no fault of their own in these circumstances, 
but looking at the terms and conditions of the policy as a whole and the specific exclusion 
clause that was cited by Evolution as the reason for rejecting Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, I 
consider that it is clear.  Consequently, I do consider that Evolution has acted reasonably in 
applying the exclusion clause in the circumstances of the case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. I consider that 
Evolution Insurance Company Limited has acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr and Mrs 
T.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman