DRN-3402304
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) continually agreed 
increases to her overdraft limit so that it reached £4,500. She says this and the charges she 
incurred for this were unaffordable. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Ss concerns and didnt think NatWest had done 
anything wrong or treated Ms S unfairly. Ms S disagreed she says the overdraft was 
unaffordable and that NatWests credit check wasnt thorough enough. NatWest has since 
offered to compensate Ms S £100 to settle her complaint but as she doesnt wish to accept 
this offer and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Ms Ss complaint. Having considered everything provided, Ive 
decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
NatWest needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
NatWest needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Ms S 
would be able to repay what she was being lent before providing any credit to her. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether NatWest did what it needed to 
before agreeing to Ms Ss overdraft. Ms S was given what was an open-ended credit facility. 
So overall this means the checks NatWest carried out had to provide enough for it to be able 
to understand whether Ms S would be able to repay her overdraft within a reasonable period 
of time. 
Ms S first applied for a £1,500 overdraft in 2016 and then submitted further applications on-
line to increase her limit to £3,000 in August 2018 and £4,500 by October 2019. All 
applications were fully credit scored taking into account information Ms S provided about her 
income and how Ms S had managed her other accounts held with it, as well as information 
held by other lenders provided through credit reference checks. NatWest at the time of each 
application say no adverse information was recorded on Ms Ss credit reference data. And 
based on this information NatWest was satisfied her score was high enough to provide her 
with the overdraft limits and facility she requested.
I accept that Ms Ss financial position may well have been worse than the credit check 
carried out showed or in any information she disclosed to NatWest at the time. And it is 
possible that further checks might have told NatWest this. But NatWest was reasonably 
entitled to rely on the credit check it carried out. 
Ive had a careful look at Ms Ss statements and how she managed her overdraft up until the 
last increase and although I can see she used her overdraft more and more she was able at 
times to bring it into credit or at least bring it down into the hundreds on a fairly regular basis. 
She was also receiving a good income that matched what she declared and given there 
wasnt any adverse information shown on the credit check, I think NatWests checks went far 
enough. 
This means that I dont agree NatWest provided Ms Ss with an overdraft facility unfairly or 
irresponsibly. That said, even though Ms Ss overdraft and increase in limits werent 
provided irresponsibly, NatWest still wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms S if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Ms Ss account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Ms S was experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether there were instances where NatWest didnt treat Ms S fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that NatWest did treat Ms S unfairly or unreasonably though. I say 
this because having looked at Ms Ss statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
NatWest ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to 
it being notified of this. 
I accept that Ms S following the last increase in late 2019 Ms S remained in overdraft for a 
much longer period of time but that in itself isnt enough to show that NatWest ought to have 
known Ms S was in financial difficulty. Ms S was managing to keep up with her other loan 
payments, she wasnt exceeding her overdraft limit and the amount being credited to Ms Ss 
account each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of her seeing a 
credit balance at any stage either. So in these circumstances I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for NatWest to proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did until 
Ms S got in touch. And when Ms S did get in touch it assisted her by refunding £220 in 
overdraft charges.
NatWest has further confirmed that since Ms S made her complaint as well as repaying her 
loans with it, she now holds a credit balance on her account. But it has offered Ms S £100 
compensation to settle her complaint. I dont think that NatWest treated Ms S unfairly or 
unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint but Ms S should get in 
touch with NatWest should she now wish to accept its offer.  
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Ms S  especially as shes been waiting 
some time for this answer. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman