DRN-3489733
The complaint
Mr N complains that the settlement offered by Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard in respect of a claim made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
was unfair.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr N purchased a used car. The car appeared to have been unused 
for some time, it also hadnt been serviced and didnt have a valid MOT certificate. Mr N 
says the car was inspected and was in a satisfactory condition.
In October 2020 Mr N booked the car in with a garage (Garage 1) for the following work 
to be undertaken; a major service, cambelt change and a general inspection. Garage 1 
provided Mr N with an invoice for £2,280 for carrying out the major service and cambelt 
change. As part of the service the garage changed various filters, oil, brake fluid and 
undertook work on the tensioner bearing. This invoice charged £1,266.49 for labour, 
£633.51 for parts and £380 for VAT. Mr N paid this invoice with the credit card he held 
with Barclays.
Garage 1 told Mr N that following investigations an issue with the fuel pump and HT leads 
had been found. Mr N agreed to further work being undertaken including the alternator 
being checked.
Garage 1 provided Mr N with a second invoice for £1,423.39 in November 2020. This 
covered work for replacing the fuel pump, HT leads and testing the alternator. The 
garage had reported to Mr N during this work that the alternator was faulty and that the 
car was smoking. It had then replaced faulty breather pipes and fitted a refurbished 
alternator. The garage also reported there was a lot of oil in the exhaust system and 
that there was a possible issue with the valve steam seal as the car continued to 
smoke.
However, Mr N was concerned about the standard of work undertaken at Garage 1 and 
although he paid the second invoice again via his credit card held with Barclays, he 
arranged for the car to be taken to a second garage (Garage 2).
Garage 2 inspected the car in November 2020 and reported that there were faults with the 
car and that in its opinion the previous repairs had been poorly carried out. Garage 2 
provided an invoice for various works it carried out totalling £8,963.67. As part of these 
repairs Garage 2 had removed the engine, replaced the cambelt and fitted a new fuel 
pump as well as carrying out various repairs to the inlet manifolds and cleaning out 
excess oil from previous service. Garage 2 also provided Mr N with a report on what it 
had found when inspecting the car.
Mr N raised a dispute with Barclays for £3,703.39. He said he should be reimbursed the 
total amount hed paid to Garage 1. Mr N said that the work had been substandard and 
amounted to a breach of contract.
Barclays attempted a chargeback but Garage 1 successfully defended that and so it 
raised a section 75 claim. Barclays investigated Mr Ns claim and found that there had 
been a breach of contract in respect to the repairs to the cambelt and for the service. It 
offered a settlement of £1,519.78 to Mr N.
Barclays explained that this amount had been reached as it accepted the charge for 
labour for the service and repairs but as the parts relating to these repairs were less 
than £100 each then then they wouldnt be covered by section 75.
Barclays also said that Garage 1 couldnt be held responsible for the poor condition of the 
car prior to any of the repairs. And as investigations had been ongoing by Garage 1 into 
the exhaust smoke and burning oil issue before Mr N removed the car it couldnt 
determine what involvement, if any, Garage 1 had in contributing to issues with the car 
found by Garage 2.
Mr N was unhappy at the settlement offered by Barclays and complained. Barclays 
didnt uphold his complaint and said the settlement offered had been fair.
Mr N complained to this service. Following his complaint Barclays said that on review of 
the evidence it accepted on balance that the fuel pump fitted by Garage 1 had required 
replacing by Garage 2 when it had inspected the work. Barclays offered Mr N an additional 
£500 to cover that cost making a total settlement of £2,019.78.
Our investigator said that he thought the new offer from Barclays was fair. He said that 
there wasnt sufficient evidence to say that all the repair work carried out by Garage 1 had 
been substandard. He also said it was unclear whether all the work carried out by Garage 
1 had been redone by Garage 2 or that Garage 1 had damaged parts of the car. Our 
investigator said he thought the condition of the car was relevant and since it had failed its 
last MOT in 2013 there was no evidence that it had been road worthy since that date.
Mr N disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said Garage 1 had damaged the 
gaskets while it had been investigating the reason for the car smoking. He also said a 
number of items fitted by Garage 1 such as the filters had all required replacing due to 
errors in the way Garage 1 had carried out the work.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
My role was to decide whether Barclays had handled Mr Ns claim fairly under both the 
chargeback scheme and section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and so I looked at 
each in turn.
The chargeback scheme isnt enshrined in law but is a dispute resolution scheme 
operated by the companies which run the card networks, such as Visa and Mastercard. It 
has certain rules under which a request for money paid to a retailer is recalled and repaid 
to the consumer if for instance goods dont arrive or are faulty. Under the rules a 
chargeback request can be defended by the retailer and Barclays said that Garage 1 had 
raised an objection to the chargeback claim which the scheme provider accepted. 
Barclays said it wasnt appropriate to pursue the chargeback claim further in the 
circumstances.
In respect of chargeback the bank, here thats Barclays, has a discretion to pursue a 
chargeback and if it feels the chance of success is remote it isnt obliged to do so. 
Barclays said that Garage 1 had disputed Mr Ns version of events. I thought Barclays 
had considered the evidence before reaching this conclusion and I thought it had acted fairly in not pursuing the chargeback and instead looking at a claim under section 75.
Barclays then raised a claim under section 75. The general effect of section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that if a consumer has paid for goods or services with a 
credit agreement, such as a credit card, and they have a claim against the supplier of 
those goods or services for misrepresentation or breach of contract, they are given a like 
claim against the credit provider which here was Barclays.
Id seen that under section 75, Barclays looked at evidence from both of the garages and 
reached a conclusion that on balance there had been a breach of contract in respect of 
the replacing of the cambelt and the undertaking of the major service. Barclays had 
offered to reimburse Mr N the cost of the labour for carrying out that work. Barclays said 
that the individual items replaced as part of that service couldnt be reimbursed because 
their individual costs were less than £100 and so these parts fell outside of section 75.
However, I disagreed with Barclays approach to the law set out in section 75. While I 
accepted that if the value of the goods or services were less than £100 (or more than 
£30,000) then a claim under section 75 cant be raised but, I didnt think that rule applied 
here. This was because the contract between Mr N and Garage 1 was for carrying out a 
major service and replacing the cambelt. As part of that major service various parts were 
replaced such as the oil and fuel filters and brake fluid and oil were added. The cost of 
these items was part of the service cost and not individual repairs. The work undertaken 
for major service would vary depending on the condition of the car. However, I was 
satisfied all the work that was shown on invoice 1 was either for replacing the cambelt or 
for servicing the car. Barclays had accepted this work wasnt carried out to a reasonable 
standard.
I thought my view was also supported that many of the components fitted by Garage 1 
during that major service were later replaced by Garage 2 as set out in its invoice dated 
January 2021. This invoice included the oil and air filter as well as oil and brake fluid. I 
therefore thought that all the costs raised in the first invoice from Garage 1 and paid by Mr 
N should have been reimbursed to Mr N by Barclays. This amounted to £2,280.
Id seen that Barclays had also offered an additional £500 in respect of the work that 
Garage 1 had undertaken to replace the fuel pump which Garage 2 later reported had 
been substandard. I agreed that the evidence from Garage 2 is that Garage 1 hadnt fitted 
the fuel pump to a reasonable competent standard and that this work would also be 
considered as a breach of contract.
In regard to the remaining costs charged by Garage 1 in its second invoice, I thought it 
was relevant to take into account the condition of the car. Id seen that Garage 2 carried 
out a number of repairs amounting to £8,963.67 in total to make it roadworthy. Id also 
seen that Garage 1 had been still investigating issues with the car at the time Mr N had 
decided to remove it from them. As the car hadnt been used on the road for a 
considerable period of time then I thought it was reasonable to assume many 
components would have deteriorated over time. I therefore thought, on the evidence that 
I had seen, that this car had been in a poor condition when Mr N had acquired it.
As the car hadnt been in good condition when Mr N had acquired it then I didnt think I 
could reasonably hold Garage 1 responsible for all the repairs that were later undertaken 
by Garage 2. Garage 2 appeared to have gone further in its repair work than Garage 1. Mr 
N said that Garage 1 had damaged the inland manifold gaskets and left the car in a worse 
and unsafe condition.
While I accepted Garage 1s work in some areas hadnt been up to the standard reasonably expected from a competent garage, I couldnt say that all the work theyd 
undertaken when replacing the fuel pump required redoing by Garage 2. I also hadnt 
seen any evidence that the gaskets had been actually damaged by Garage 1. I accepted 
they were removed by Garage 1 with Mr Ns approval when investigating the car smoking, 
but I thought it was possible, taking into account the condition of the car, that these might 
have already been faulty.
Id seen Garage 2 had also raised an issue with excessive oil being present from the 
service. However, Garage 1 had been investigating issues with the oil before Mr N 
removed the car. I didnt have sufficient evidence to say that any issue with the oil was 
due to the actions of Garage 1.
Looking at the second invoice from Garage 1 that amounted to £1,423.39, Id seen that 
this includes the work on the fuel pump but also other items. I hadnt seen that all this 
work had needed to be redone by Garage 2 when looking at their invoice. As set out 
above it was also clear the car was still faulty when passed to Garage 2 as Garage 1 had 
been actively investigating issues. I thought that Barclays offer to reimburse £500 to 
reflect the work on the fuel pump was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I thought Barclays had acted fairly in dealing with Mr Ns claim under section 75. And it 
had recognised and accepted there was a breach of contract in respect of some of the 
work undertaken to the car by Garage 1. However, I thought the application of the 
£100 limit for goods had been wrongly applied and that a fair reimbursement to Mr N 
would be £2,780. This amount covered the costs of the major service, the cambelt and 
the fuel pump which had been accepted werent provided to a reasonable competent 
standard.
I therefore intended to partially uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Barclays has accepted my provisional view. Mr N has asked that he is also reimbursed the 
cost of the investigation by Garage 2 that resulted in its report about the defective work 
carried out by Garage 1.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although both parties have accepted my provisional view, I still reviewed the evidence and 
my conclusions, I havent changed my mind about partially upholding Mr Ns complaint. Mr N 
has asked that the reimbursement from Barclays includes the cost of the report he provided 
from Garage 2. He says without this report he wouldnt have been able to make a claim.
While I accept that Mr N is likely to have incurred some labour costs when Garage 2 
inspected the car, unfortunately from the evidence Ive seen Im not able to quantify the 
hours Garage 2 actually spent investigating the work that had been undertaken by Garage 1 
and which was found to have been performed below standard. The invoice from Garage 2 
includes 35.5 hours of labour but doesnt set out the number of hours spent for the 
preparation of the report only. 
Mr N has provided an email from the garage that estimates around 10 hours was spent 
inspecting the car and removing the engine. But Im not able to accept this estimate as the 
time spent investigating the cam belt, service work and fuel pump. This is because the 
situation is complicated by Garage 2 undertaking a detailed inspection of the car that went 
beyond checking the work carried out by Garage 1. It also carried out a substantial amount of repair work that wasnt linked to the work that had been carried out by Garage 1. As set 
out above the car had been in a poor condition when acquired by Mr N and required 
investigation into a number of faults.
So, although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr N, Im not going to ask 
Barclays to reimburse him the cost of the report prepared by Garage 2. I dont have sufficient 
information to accurately calculate how much this cost and I think it would be unfair to 
require Barclays to reimburse an amount I cant quantify.
Im therefore partially upholding Mr Ns complaint in the same terms as set out above in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
Im asking Barclays to do the following:
Re-work Mr Ns credit card account as if £2,780 of it had not been paid, refunding 
any interest and charges in respect of that amount. If this calculation results in a 
credit balance B needs to refund this and pay interest on it at a rate of 8% simple per 
year calculated from the date of said credit balance to the date of settlement
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Mr Ns complaint. Im asking 
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to do the following:
Re-work Mr Ns credit card account as if £2,780 of it had not been paid, refunding 
any interest and charges in respect of that amount. If this calculation results in a 
credit balance B needs to refund this and pay interest on it at a rate of 8% simple per 
year calculated from the date of said credit balance to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman