DRN-4447696
The complaint
Miss S complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) have declined her claim for 
treatment provided to her horse T because she had missed a premium payment and her 
policy had been cancelled.      
     
What happened
In September 2022 Miss S took out policies for her two horses T and G with Red Sands. She 
received the documents and separate direct debits were set up for both policies. 
On 2 April 2023 T was treated by the vet for colic and was hospitalised for three days. The 
cost of the treatment was £2637.22. 
On 3 April Miss S contacted Red Sands to advise that T was being treated and to make a 
claim. She was advised to download forms from the portal and send them in. On 24 April she 
contacted them again to start the claim and was told by the call handler that the policy had 
been cancelled on 15 March 2023 as no premiums had been paid since 19 January. They 
therefore declined her claim. 
Miss S complained. She said that she was not contacted by Red Sands about the direct 
debit not being paid so she had no knowledge of the policy being cancelled. She also said 
that if Red Sands had told her about the cancellation on 3 April when she first made contact 
with them, she would have been within the 28 days to reinstate the policy.  
Red Sands didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint so she brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought that Red Sands had acted 
fairly in cancelling the policy and declining the claim.     
  
Miss S didnt agree, and so the case came to me to review.  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
In deciding this case I have to look at whether Red Sands have applied the terms and 
conditions of their policy correctly in terms of the cancellation, and whether they have acted 
fairly and reasonably in declining the claim and the service they have provided.  
Having thought about this, Im minded to partially uphold Miss Ss complaint and I will 
explain why.
I have seen all the policy documents, correspondence between Red Sands and Miss S. 
The cancellation
Red Sands say that in December and January the initial request to pay the direct debit 
failed, but both were collected on a second attempt 5 days later. On 19 February the direct 
debit failed again, and so they wrote to her on 21 February about this advising that they 
would try again. On 28 February they tried to take the payment again but it was unsuccessful 
a second time and so on 1 March they wrote again advising that the policy would be 
cancelled if Miss S didnt make contact in 10 days, and on 15 March they wrote a final time 
advising that the policy would be cancelled.
When we might cancel your policy
We may cancel your policy if you dont keep up with your payments, but well always write to 
you first. If we dont hear from you, well cancel the policy one month from the date we last 
received a payment. We may be able to reinstate the policy if you pay within 28 days.
Miss S says that she was unaware of the cancellation as she didnt receive any of the 
cancellation letters relating to T and didnt know about the cancellation until 3 April when she 
rang Red Sands. 
Red Sands have provided me with copies of all the letters that were sent to Miss S, and 
proof of them being sent by e email. I appreciate that Miss S may not have received them  
for example of they went to her junk mail folder  but I am satisfied that Red Sands made 
sufficient attempts to contact Miss S using her correct e mail address to which the policy 
documents had been sent, to let her know that her payments had failed and her policy was 
being cancelled. Miss S should also have been aware from her own banking information that 
the direct debit had failed. So I think the cancellation of the policy was done properly and 
fairly. 
    
Ive then thought about whether there was a missed opportunity for the policy to be 
reinstated when Miss S rang on 3 April. 
Miss S wasnt told that the policy had been cancelled when she rang to make a claim. Red 
sands have accepted that. However, they say it wouldnt make any difference as Miss S was 
outside the 28 day time for the policy to be reinstated. 
Miss S says that the policy wasnt cancelled until 15 March and so she would have been 
able to reinstate it within 28 days if she had been told of the cancellation in the call on 3 
April. 
Ive looked at the terms of the policy above and I can see that the policy says that the 
cancellation date will be one month from the date of the last payment. Last payment was 19 
January and so the policy cancellation date would have been 19 February 2023 in line with 
the terms  even though it wasnt effected until 15 March. That means the time limit for 
reinstatement would have expired on 19 March, so when Miss S rang on 3 April 
reinstatement wasnt possible.   
 
The service provided
Whilst I am satisfied that even if correct advice had been given on 3 April, it wouldnt have 
made any difference in terms of the policy, I do think that being given incorrect information 
has had an impact on Miss S. 
Being told that she could make a claim meant that she had an expectation that some of her 
costs would be met. I appreciate that no claim had been determined, but thinking she still 
had insurance meant that she made choices about the care for T and also the way she paid 
for it that she may not have made if she had known she had no cover. 
Miss S has explained to me that at the time she was experiencing financial and personal 
difficulties which have been further impacted by having to meet the cost of Ts care which 
she paid for on a credit card, and that she now cannot meet those payments. She says that she would not have authorised the three-day stay in the equine hospital if she had known 
and may have had T put to sleep. Subsequently finding out 3 weeks later that she had no 
cover when she had already paid the bill  for the care has therefore caused her some 
distress and inconvenience, and I am minded to make an award to compensate for that. 
  
I understand that this wont cover the costs of the care that T has received, and I am  
sympathetic to the difficulties that Miss S finds herself in, but I cant compensate her for the 
cancellation in these circumstances, only for the poor service.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Miss S and Red Sands have accepted my provisional decision, and so Im making my 
final decision in line with my provisional findings.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right Red Sands should pay Miss S £250. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Miss Ss complaint and direct Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) to put things right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman