DRN-1921059
 
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C took out a mortgage in 1998 with Santander UK plc, trading at the time as 
Alliance & Leicester and were sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy at 
the same time. They say they were mis-sold this type of cover.
Ill refer mainly to Santander for consistency.
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mrs and Mr C its unlikely to 
be upheld. They disagreed and asked for it to be passed for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. 
Mrs and Mr C are adamant they were told the PPI was something they needed to have with 
the mortgage. Whilst Im sure this may well be their genuine recollection of events, Im 
afraid the paperwork Ive seen does tend to point, quite strongly in my view, the other way.
I see, for example, that on their mortgage application form there was a section about PPI. It 
gave several choices about having  or not having  this type of cover. One option said, I 
do not need this protection and it allowed the applicant(s) to tick the corresponding box to 
confirm this. This box was left empty. By the way this was set out on the page, I think they 
would have been easily able to see that they didnt need to buy any PPI. 
However nearby, a box was ticked to say they did want PPI and so this shows their 
recollections about later being told they needed to buy it, as part of having a mortgage, are 
probably not right. Even if they were told such a thing, Mrs and Mr C selected the PPI from 
what I consider to be a clear menu of options. So this record shows they consented to the 
PPI being added, although I completely accept that after 22 years they may not remember 
this now.
Santander probably advised them during the sale, which it means it had a duty to make 
sure the PPI was suitable for them. I think it was. Only Mr C seems to have been covered 
which to me suggests a discussion took place and that Mrs and Mr C probably gave some 
thought about what they wanted to do. 
He was eligible for the PPI and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in 
these types of policy. The cover was there to help protect the mortgage on their home. In 
the event of unforeseen circumstances I think the PPI was therefore useful and I assume 
Mrs and Mr C came to the same conclusion. If Mr C had lost his job or became unable to 
work, it would have paid £300 per month for up to a year. Overall, I think the PPI was 
suitable for their circumstances of the time.
Obviously, I cant say after such a long time that Mrs and Mr C were told everything they 
ought to have been told. But the price seems to me to be comparable with similar policies 
from around that time period and Ive seen nothing that suggests it wasnt affordable for 
them. I note the cost was also disclosed on a letter they were sent explaining about the type 
of protection they had bought and who was covered. I think they had enough information on 
which to make an informed decision.
Mrs and Mr C say the policy was kept running after they closed their Santander mortgage 
and they have asked us to look at this. 
However, I see it was paid for by separate direct debit and the payment was to a third-party 
insurer. Although Mrs and Mr C think the policy was mis-sold, theres no dispute that they 
knew of its existence. So Im afraid it was Mrs and Mr Cs responsibility to manage the 
policy and I assume they would have been able to see the £15 leaving their bank account 
each month. Clearly, if they had wanted to stop this then they would have been able to 
make the relevant enquiries. In any event, my understanding is that they were still covered 
by the PPI as a result of it being with a separate insurer, so if they transferred their 
mortgage to another company, they could still potentially make a successful claim. In short, 
the policy was still relevant and the protection still there for Mr C.
Im sorry to have to disappoint Mrs and Mr C. But all the evidence shows they agreed to the 
policy, knew how much it was costing and would have known it was optional, rather than 
compulsory.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Cs complaint. And I dont direct Santander UK plc to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman