DRN-3561600
The complaint
Mr K has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined a storm claim 
under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K contacted AXA when the carport at his home was damaged during a storm. AXA 
assessed the claim and declined it because it found evidence of rot, which it said was the 
cause of the damage.
When Mr K complained, AXA maintained its decision to decline the claim but offered £25 as 
a gesture of goodwill because of how long it took to deal with the complaint.
So, Mr K complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
that although there was a storm, the surveyors findings showed that rot was the main cause 
of the damage. She said it was reasonable for AXA to decline the claim.
As Mr K didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Ive looked at the weather around the time of the claim and can see 
there were winds that would be considered to be storm force. Ive also thought about 
whether the damage was consistent with the type of damage a storm causes. I think a storm 
could cause damage to a roof and cause it to lift. 
So, Ive thought about the third question. Looking at AXAs surveyor report, this said:
The timber to the carport is rotten and crumbling, the cause of damage is due to a natural 
breakdown of materials.
There were also photos that showed the rot in parts of the carport. Im aware that Mr K has 
said the rot was limited to one area that he couldnt see. But, based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that the rot affected a range of timber to the carport. Although there was a storm, I 
think it was reasonable for AXA to rely on its surveyors findings and to decide that the rot 
was the main cause of the damage. The policy terms and conditions had an exclusion for 
damage caused by rot. So, I think it was reasonable for AXA to decline the claim, as the 
damage wasnt caused by an insured event. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or 
require AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman