DRN-4418358
The complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-sold him an annuity.
What happened
Mr G contacted Aviva to ask for his annuity with it to be surrendered in February 2023. He 
was told on the phone that his annuity couldnt be changed or altered  it had been setup to 
provide a lifetime income in 2004.
Mr G then said he felt his annuity had been mis-sold. Hes told us that hes suffered from 
COPD for 43 years and therefore an annuity was totally unsuitable for his needs. Hes said 
he receives a very small sum yearly which does not cover his costs. He expected a lump 
sum on retirement which would be a far greater financial help. Mr G said to resolve his 
complaint he would like a cash value for the remaining value of his annuity.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint, it said when the annuity was sold, it did not give advice. 
And Mr G wouldve either received advice and/or was given all the information required to 
make an informed decision and he chose to take out an annuity. It said it no longer had the 
original documentation from the annuity sale.
Aviva told us that it believed the complaint had been made out of time because the sale of 
the annuity was in 2004  and this is what Mr G was complaining about so the event was 
more than six years ago. And Mr G ought to have known his cause for complaint more than 
three years before he did complain.
Our investigator looked into matters he agreed that the complaint had been raised too late. 
He said within the information Aviva provided us with he could see that Mr G had asked in 
2009 to cash in his remaining pension and hed been told that Aviva wouldnt allow this. He 
said this meant the complaint about the annuity sale couldve been raised at this point and 
Mr G was now out of time. However, he felt that as the rules with regards to cashing in 
annuities had changed and Aviva had given a new answer on this over the phone  this part 
of the complaint was within time.
Mr G didnt agree, he said in response, Aviva ought to have got him to fill in a health 
questionnaire which wouldve highlighted his COPD. He says because it did not, his annuity 
was mis-sold. Our investigator explained as hed said this part of the complaint was made 
outside of the allowed time-limits  we couldnt consider this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We are bound by certain rules that are set by the financial industry regulator; the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). These are known as the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP Rules) 
and are contained in the FCAs Handbook. In summary, the relevant part of the rules 
provides that the ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint unless the complainant referred the 
complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman within that period and has a written 
acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limitwas as a result 
of exceptional circumstances
(5) the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the complaint where the 
time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R have expired.
In this case Aviva hasnt consented to us looking at the complaint, so I need to consider if 
the complaint has been made in time.
Mr G complained to the firm in February 2023 which is more than six years after the advice 
that was complained about  in 2004. So, I therefore need to consider whether this 
complaint was made within the relevant three-year period referred to above.
The three year test is framed quite widely. It isnt just triggered by actual knowledge but also 
by knowledge that ought reasonably to have alerted someone that there was cause for 
complaint.
Mr G contacted Aviva in 2023, to ask for his pension to be cashed in. When he was told this 
wasnt possible, he then said he felt the pension had been mis-sold as the annuity wasnt 
suitable for him. However, I note Mr G had also been told in 2019 that he couldnt have his 
annuity cashed in. So he had this initial awareness more than three years before he raised a 
complaint.
Ive considered whether this and any other knowledge means Mr G was aware or ought to 
have been aware earlier that an annuity might not be suitable for him. Mr Gs told us he has 
COPD and has had it for 43 years  and he thinks therefore annuities arent suitable for him. 
Hes also said the annuity doesnt cover his costs and he expected a lump sum at 
retirement. 
Mr G wouldve reached the normal retirement age of the policy at 65 in 2019. This may be 
what prompted his call to Aviva in 2019 to ask for a cash value. Mr G wouldve known then 
the value of his annuity and that he wouldnt receive a lump sum at retirement. I think 
therefore he was aware of his cause for complaint at the latest in 2019. 
I appreciate Mr G has said hes since become aware that he ought to have filled in a health 
questionnaire and this is what he believes Aviva did wrong. He hasnt said when he became 
aware of this, however what he refers to is likely only relevant to advised sales and Aviva 
didnt provide an advice service on this product. And in any event, I think even without this 
knowledge, Mr Gs cause for complaint  the value (or perceived lack of) he was getting from 
the annuity  was already apparent in 2019 if not earlier. Therefore, Mr Gs complaint has 
been made too late. It has been raised more than six years after the event and three years 
after he was, or ought to have been, aware of his cause for complaint.No exceptional circumstances have been presented by Mr G as to why he wasnt able to 
raise this complaint earlier. So, as set out in our rules, this isnt a complaint we can consider.
It may be helpful to Mr Gs understanding to explain that in 2004 when he took his annuity at 
age 50, he wouldnt have had options such as taking the fund as cash, as is allowed now. 
Really an annuity was his only option at the time as the rules didnt allow for pensions to be 
taken as cash lump sums (only 25% as tax free cash). Some smaller pensions were able to 
be cashed in but not at age 50.
What originally triggered the complaint in 2023 and was also Mr Gs solution for putting 
things right was his wish to have his pension cashed in. Technically as above, Mr G 
wouldve been aware more than three years ago that Aviva wouldnt offer this to him. As he 
was told in 2019 it couldnt do this. However, since that point there have been changes in 
legislation  some firms have now offered a cash value for annuities. And for the firms that 
dont, the reasons have changed. As firms are now permitted, if they wish to do so, to allow 
a pension to be cashed in. And so, I think its fair to treat Avivas answer now, as a different 
event to the answer given in 2019.
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and 
make payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes 
cashing-in of annuities)  was a permissive over-ride. What this means is the schemes are 
allowed to make these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Mr Gs position doesnt have a right to 
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it 
can, but only up to a limit of £10,000.
Aviva has told us its unwilling to offer Mr G a cash value at this point in time. Essentially 
because the annuity product wasnt designed to be cashed in. And so, this presents a 
number of difficulties that cannot be overcome without significant undertakings which add 
risk, inconvenience and cost to its business and could result in poor customer outcomes. It 
made a number of points about this, for example:
The government concluded that cashing in annuities may not produce good customer 
outcomes. Therefore, there is no agreed framework of how and who to offer this to.
It cannot make exceptions without offering this more widely as it wouldnt be treating 
customers fairly.
To offer this to all its qualifying customers could result in poor customer outcomes.
It would need to do a study of whether it is viable for its business and its customers.
It would also need to decide a framework of who could be offered this fairly.
Because of this it is not in position to change its stance regardless of values of individual 
annuities.
I think Avivas position is a fair one. On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable 
for Aviva to decline Mr Gs request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated 
Mr G in line with other customers.
We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities. If in 
the future Aviva changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation changes, its 
possible Mr G may benefit from such a change. But I cannot fairly say Aviva must change its position at present, in the circumstances Ive considered in this decision.
I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed with this but for the reasons explained I dont think 
Aviva has done anything wrong.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman