DRN-2823735
The complaint
Mr C complains that Family Assurance Friendly Society Limited trading as OneFamily 
delayed his pension transfer. He complains that this caused him a loss.
What happened
Mr C had an Appropriate Personal Pension Plan (APPP) with OneFamily. At the end of 
January 2020, he asked his new pension provider to transfer the value of the APPP into his 
plan with them. 
The new pension provider sent a letter of authority and request for information to OneFamily 
on 29 January 2020. 
OneFamily said they sent a transfer pack to both the new pension provider and Mr C on 4 
February 2020, within their internal timescales. But this was incorrect, as theyd only sent the 
pack to the new provider. They said they sent this by post, which was their usual method. 
The value of Mr Cs policy as at 4 February 2020, based on the previous working days unit 
price, was £41,409.18.
Mr C said his new provider called OneFamily 20 days after their initial request to ask for the 
transfer paperwork again, as they were yet to receive it. OneFamily said they sent the 
transfer paperwork again by email the day after the second request.
On 13 March 2020, OneFamily said they received the forms back, but without the required 
identification. So they wrote to Mr Cs new provider to ask them for the identification.
Mr C contacted OneFamily on 19 March 2020 to confirm what was still needed for the 
transfer. OneFamily replied the same day by email. They confirmed that the certified 
identification theyd requested was the only thing they still required.
OneFamily said they received Mr Cs identification on 25 March 2020. They closed his policy 
the next working day. They sent the funds to his new provider by BACs. And sent 
confirmation letters to both Mr C and his new provider. These letters showed that the final 
amount transferred was £33,679.90.
Unhappy with the how the transfer had been managed, Mr C complained to OneFamily. He 
was also unhappy with the performance of the investment and the service hed received, 
noting that his transfer value had decreased considerably from the time of his initial request 
until the transfer was completed.
OneFamily sent their final response on 15 April 2020. They didnt feel they should 
compensate Mr C for the fall in value of his transfer. They acknowledged that Mr C didnt 
believe that theyd sent the original transfer pack on 4 February 2020. But they provided 
some evidence that they had, by sharing screenshots of Mr Cs documentary history and the 
notes attached to his plan. They said theyd made a business decision to process pension 
transfers like Mr Cs by paper, acknowledging that this wasnt the quickest method. But 
noting that there were no regulations preventing them from using this method. OneFamily 
acknowledged that Mr Cs transfer value had fallen over the time it took to complete his 
instruction. But said that theyd been unable to complete his transfer until they received all of 
the required documents. They said as soon as they had received everything required, they 
processed the transfer as quickly as possible. 
OneFamily acknowledged that the service Mr C had received hadnt always been up to the 
standard they aimed for. They noted that they couldve contacted him directly to ask for his 
identification. And that theyd provided him with incorrect information over the phone when 
theyd told him a certain letter had been sent to both him and his new provider, when it was 
their usual practice to only sent that document to the new provider. OneFamily offered Mr C 
£100 as a gesture of goodwill in recognition of the service hed received. 
Mr C rejected OneFamilys offer of £100. And brought his complaint to this service. He felt 
OneFamily should compensate him for the fall in his transfer value he felt theyd caused due 
to the delays and misinformation.
Our investigator considered Mr Cs complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld. She didnt 
feel that OneFamily had made any administration errors. And she felt that OneFamily had 
dealt with Mr Cs transfer in a fair and reasonable manner. She also said that the £100 
OneFamily had offered Mr C in recognition of incorrectly telling him theyd sent the 4 
February 2020 transfer pack to both him and his new provider, rather than just the new 
provider, was fair. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said OneFamily didnt send the transfer forms to him or the new 
provider on 4 February 2020. He said this caused at least 20 days delay. He also said that 
there were major delays in OneFamily acting on requests. And he said OneFamily gave him 
incorrect information and misleading paperwork. He felt that OneFamily created delays in 
order to retain his funds for as long as possible. He said he shouldnt have been invested at 
all during the period he was trying to transfer his funds. And that hed been caused a serious 
financial loss at a time when his finances were very fragile. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Cs complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Mr C is upset with the service hes received. Its clearly been very 
frustrating trying to transfer his pension while his investments were falling in value. But the 
question for me is whether its fair to hold OneFamily responsible for the delays Mr C 
experienced. And therefore the fall in value. Ive decided its not, so Im not going to uphold 
Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
I first considered whether there was sufficient evidence that the 4 February 2020 transfer 
pack was sent. 
4 February 2020 transfer pack
Mr C said that: This pack wasn't sent to me or the new pension provider. It was never 
received. Even though OneFamily say they sent it to both myself and the new provider. He 
also said that the pack had his name and address on it, so shouldve been sent to him in the 
first instance.
OneFamily said that the request for the pack had come from the new provider, not Mr C. And that their usual practice is to only send information to the party whod requested it. 
OneFamily provided evidence that they had sent the transfer pack to the new provider. They 
shared screenshots of Mr Cs documentary history and the notes attached to his plan. They 
also confirmed that they did in fact only send the 4 February 2020 transfer pack to the new 
provider. They acknowledged that theyd told Mr C incorrectly that theyd sent this pack to 
him as well. But said: Im sorry that this information was incorrect. Wed only sent the forms 
to [new provider name] and not to you in the first instance. The reason for our mistake on the 
phone is that the forms we needed to be completed by you had your address on, but had 
been sent to your new provider with the rest of your transfer pack. Because your IFA had 
asked for these forms, we had sent them directly to them and not you. This IS our usual 
procedure. Sometimes, the customers address is left on this letter as part of the whole pack 
so that the IFA can forward it on the customer at a later date, although we shouldve 
addressed this to [the new provider] on this occasion.
I can understand why Mr C struggled to believe that both packs had been lost in the post. 
But I can see that the pack was only sent to his new provider. Im satisfied this is standard 
industry practice. Although it appears that the new provider didnt receive the pack, I dont 
have any evidence that OneFamily didnt send it. So I cant hold them responsible for it not 
being received. 
I can see that the new provider didnt request a further transfer pack until 24 February 2020. 
OneFamily said: To speed things up, we then sent this to them again by email the following 
day. 
Based on the evidence, Im not persuaded that OneFamily shouldve done any more to 
follow up the initial request. They said: we do not chase any requests for information or 
transfer forms, as the responses are sent in good faith on the understanding the IFA will 
receive them. If they dont for any reason, it is then up to the IFA to request them again.
Ive no evidence that OneFamily didnt send the 4 February 2020 transfer pack to the new 
provider. And Ive no evidence that they didnt follow their standard practice. I can see that 
when they received the second request, they acted quickly. So I cant agree with Mr C that 
OneFamily caused a 20-day delay here.
I next considered whether the paperwork was misleading.
Was the paperwork misleading and did it lead to a loss?
From the evidence Ive seen, OneFamily received the completed transfer forms on 13 March 
2020. They said the value of the transfer at that time wouldve been £32,729.88. This is 
lower than the £33,679.60 transfer value Mr C actually achieved as at 26 March 2020.
OneFamily said there was no identification included with the forms. So they couldnt 
complete the transfer. They said: Were unable to carry out a transfer until we receive all the 
documents we require and confirm this on the first page of our Transfer Pack. 
The transfer pack said the following forms would be needed to complete the transfer 
payment:
For us to transfer your pension pot to a new pension provider please arrange for the 
completion and return of the following enclosed forms
Transfer Payment FormNew Pension Provider Scheme Details Form
We also require 2 forms of identification Please refer to the Personal Identification List 
enclosure for further information
I consider this is a clear request. And the information being requested is in line with what Id 
expect.
OneFamily said they wrote to the new provider to let them know what was missing. They 
acknowledged that they couldve requested the missing information directly from Mr C, 
rather than asking his new provider. But noted that they followed their normal procedure. 
They also acknowledged that the new provider emailed Mr C to explain what was needed, 
but didnt include the list of acceptable documents or certification requirements. So Mr C had 
to call OneFamily on 19 March 2020 to confirm what was still needed.
While I can see that the process wouldve been completed more quickly if OneFamily had 
called Mr C directly to request the missing information, Ive no evidence that they did 
anything wrong when they didnt take this action. From the evidence, the additional delay 
didnt cause Mr C a loss. And OneFamily followed their usual procedures. So I cant say that 
they treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably. So I cant conclude that they did anything wrong 
here. 
Mr C also felt that that he shouldnt: have been invested at all during this period due to their 
incompetence or wilful mishandling of my request. He said that he hasnt been treated fairly 
and has been caused a serious financial detriment at a time when his finances are fragile. 
So I then considered what happened to Mr Cs investment during the transfer period. 
Investment during transfer period
Mr C was invested in the Family Freeway Pension Managed Fund. This fund factsheet 
states this is mainly invested in both UK and overseas shares, along with fixed interest 
investments and property. The fund factsheet states under What Are The Risks?:
We invest in stocks and shares because we believe there IS good potential for growth over 
the long-term However, there is no guarantee that this will happen and the value of the 
investment can fall as well as rise This means that it is possible to get back less than has 
been paid in.
During the period Mr C was trying to transfer his APPP, stock markets were generally falling. 
This was connected to the covid-19 pandemic. OneFamily said: All of our equity-based 
investments decreased during this time because of the uncertainty surrounding COVID-19 
The fund performed as we would expect it to, but this means it unfortunately decreased at 
the same time Mr C choose to go ahead with his transfer.
Mr C said he was disappointed with the performance of the fund in general. And its also 
clearly disappointing that the value of his funds decreased while he was trying to transfer to 
another provider. OneFamily acknowledged this in their final response letter. But noted that 
Mr C had benefitted from a significant return on his pension fund over the entire period of his 
investment. 
Ive looked at the information OneFamily sent. The valuations they sent include warnings 
that: the value of your pension pot can go up or down. And explain that: The amount we 
transfer to your new pension provider may be more or less than the figure being quoted. 
They also state: The amount we transfer will be based on unit price available on the next available price date following receipt of all of OneFamilys required payment documents.
Im satisfied that this wording is clear. So I consider that OneFamily made it clear that the 
values they were quoting were never guaranteed. Im also satisfied that other pension 
providers wouldve been experiencing exactly the same performance problems with their 
equity-based investments. 
Mr C said: I clearly would not have wanted to stay in an at risk pension fund at this time and 
feel I have been forced to due to their administrative errors which I believe were designed to 
make it difficult for me to transfer the funds from them. I am sympathetic to this point. Its 
incredibly unfortunate that his fund decreased at the same time as Mr C decided to go ahead 
with his transfer. Im sorry that Mr C suffered due to the falling market. I can see that it was a 
very difficult time for him. But Ive not seen any evidence that OneFamily made 
administrative errors which caused delays to the transfer. And Ive no evidence that Mr C 
asked to invest differently over the transfer period. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me 
to hold OneFamily responsible for the fall in value.
Finally, I looked at OneFamilys offer of £100 for the incorrect information they gave Mr C.
Gesture of goodwill
OneFamily acknowledged theyd made a mistake when they told Mr C that theyd sent the 4 
February 2020 pack to both him and his new provider. Theyd actually only sent it to his new 
provider. They offered him £100 as a gesture of goodwill for their error. 
Ive considered whether this offer was fair and reasonable. Ive thought about the whole 
transfer process and the points Mr C has made. Ive no evidence that OneFamily made any 
further mistakes in the transfer process. And Ive no evidence that they didnt follow their 
usual procedures. So Ive considered what I think would be a reasonable offer under the 
circumstances. I can see that the error contributed to Mr C not believing that the 4 February 
2020 pack was ever sent. But I dont consider that the error led to any delays in the transfer 
process. So Im satisfied that the offer of £100 is fair. I note that OneFamily have said that 
although Mr C has rejected this offer, if he chooses to accept it, they are still happy to make 
this payment. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr C, but Ive not been able to find evidence that 
OneFamily delayed his transfer. So I cant ask them to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman