DRN-3874869
The complaint
Miss P complains that she doesnt think her balance on her account with Clydesdale Bank 
Plc trading as Virgin Money  (Virgin) is correct.
What happened
Miss P has an account with Virgin. She contacted Virgin in September 2022 to say she 
couldnt reconcile her balance with the transactions she made on her account. She referred 
to transactions made in January - February 2022, and a balance she got from the ATM on 
19 January 2022. 
Miss P complained  she said she couldnt reconcile the balance on her account with the 
transactions she had made. This caused her to go overdrawn. She said she should receive 
compensation for the inconvenience.
Virgin said that the issue seemed to be that Miss P made a purchase for petrol on 13 
February 2022  and the transaction hadnt gone through to her account until 14 February 
2022. And when she checked her balance on 13 February 2022, it wouldve shown the 
balance before the debit to her account went through. Virgin suggested Miss P check her 
statements to see if there were any transactions she didnt recognise and contact them 
again - so it can be investigated further. Virgin gave a contact number, and a number for 
their support line for customers in financial difficulty, together with guidance for free debt 
advice agencies. 
Miss P brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Virgin acted fairly. He said Miss P 
referred to two periods where her balance was less that she expected. But she hadnt 
disputed any of the payments or withdrawals she had made. Our investigator said what 
Virgin had said  that sometimes retailers dont put through a debit to an account for some 
days after the purchase was made. This may have led to the problems experienced by Miss 
P. This was normal banking practice. But it didnt mean to say there was an error on the part 
of Virgin.
Miss P asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint  and so it has come to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P has shown us a lot of calculations and written notes from her statements and shown 
us ATM and purchase receipts. She says her balance wasnt correct during the period in 
question. Im afraid to say that our service doesnt provide an audit check. But from what Ive 
seen, there wasnt an error on her account. But equally I cant go through every transaction 
and match it to her statements  its not what we do. And  Miss P hasnt disputed any of the 
payments shes made. 
But more importantly, Virgin have offered for Miss P to contact them again and go through 
her account to see if they can help  theyve provided the number for her to call. Id 
encourage her to do that  its not something we can do at this service.
I can also see that money has been tight for Miss P  there have been several direct debits 
retuned unpaid for lack of funds. If Miss P is in financial difficulty, Id encourage her to speak 
to Virgins specialist team  and Virgin have given her the number to call. Or another option 
is for Miss P to speak to a debt advice agency  many are free to use, and again, Virgin 
gave her the contact numbers for those in their final response. And - thats what we would 
have expected Virgin to do in the circumstances.
Therefore, I am not upholding Miss Ps complaint  but in doing so, I hope she will take my 
advice and ask for help if she needs it. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman