DRN-4377902
The complaint
Mr U complains about the sale of a home learning package financed with a loan from 3J 
Finance Limited.
What happened
The background facts are well known to the parties here  so I wont be covering those in 
detail here. Instead I will summarise the information and focus on giving reasons for my 
decision.
Mr U purchased a home learning package (the package) on finance for his children. Mr U 
said that during the sale things were not properly explained  for example that he would be 
signing up to a finance agreement and that the course would not involve a tutor regularly 
coming to the house to give 1-2-1 lessons to his children. 
Mr U says the deal he was signing up to was misrepresented and complained to the credit 
broker and also 3J Finance about it. 
3J Finance did not uphold Mr Us complaint so this service looked into things. Our 
investigator looked at the complaint taking into account the relevant law - however she was 
not persuaded the actions of the supplier (which also acted as a credit broker) meant that 3J 
Finance should fairly refund Mr U for the package he signed up to.
The matter was passed to me to make a final decision on. I asked for more information 
about certain things and noted that in the course of his complaint Mr U had explained the 
financial impact on him of signing up to the deal. 
Our investigator then looked at the affordability of the finance agreement but did not uphold 
this aspect. She also considered the new information that had been obtained following 
further investigation (such as a promotional leaflet for the package) and said it did not 
change her view on the matter.
The case has now come back to me for a final decision at Mr Us request.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the evidence submitted by the parties but I will not be commenting on all 
of it  only the matters I consider central to the complaint. This is not intended as a 
discourtesy but reflects my role resolving disputes informally.
In order to decide what is fair and reasonable I consider relevant law and good practice. It is 
worth noting here that I am only looking at the actions of 3J Finance here in its capacity as a 
finance provider and not the actions of the supplier of the package (except where 3J Finance 
might reasonably be responsible for said actions in accordance with relevant law). 
Here I think Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) is particularly 
relevant. This can make 3J Finance responsible for a like claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by a supplier of goods and services financed by its loan. I consider the 
particular criteria for a valid Section 75 claim are met here (in relation to the contracting 
parties and financial limits) so I have gone on to consider whether there is a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier here.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 56) is also relevant here as it can 
make 3J Finance responsible for information given to Mr U by the supplier in its role as 
credit broker during antecedent negotiations in arranging the finance deal.
I have broken down what I believe to be the key aspects of the complaint here as follows:
The sale of the package
Mr Us main complaint point appears to be that he was mis-led by the supplier about the 
fundamental nature of the package. He has explained that he thought it was a tutor led 
course where a tutor would regularly visit and teach his children the learning materials. 
However, he says he later found out that the course did not include a tutor and involved 
selfdirected online learning materials which could be accessed in the home.
I am satisfied from looking at the course information that it doesnt include in person tuition 
and that it is an online resource (with a degree of telephone support). So in not providing in 
person tuition I dont consider that there has been a breach of contract by the supplier. 
However, I have thought about whether there has been a misrepresentation here.
In order to uphold this complaint I would need to be persuaded it was more likely than not Mr 
U was given false information about the package he was signing up to by the supplier. And 
that this false information led him to sign up to something he otherwise would not have.
From what I can see I think it likely the salesperson said he could come around initially and 
demonstrate the online learning system to Mr Us family once they had signed up  because 
from his testimony this is what appears to have occurred once Mr U agreed to the package. 
But overall I am not persuaded this means the package was misrepresented - in that Mr U 
was falsely told by the salesperson that the package included ongoing weekly in person 
tuition in academic topics for his children. 
I have seen the promotional leaflet which I am persuaded Mr U was likely given to express 
interest in the package and arrange a home visit. And I note that leaflet is clear that the 
service is online and support with the system is available over the phone - it says nothing 
about in person tutors. Mr U has been shown this leaflet and has not denied receiving it  his 
initial contact also refers to being given a leaflet in an educational setting about the package. 
So it seems that the nature of the service would have been reasonably clear from the outset 
before the salesperson visit was arranged.
I also note none of the sales documents say anything about in person tuition and make it 
reasonably clear that the package is an online resource for use in the home. Mr U says he 
didnt get these while 3J Finance says that these were sent to him shortly after he agreed 
the package and has sent system notes to show this. There is of course a possibility that Mr 
U didnt get these documents and might not have been given a lot of time to fully read 
through them on the day of sale. However, this in itself does not mean he was given false 
information about the service, and although I do appreciate that to Mr U this was a financial 
commitment overall the cost of the service being less than £50 a month would have reasonably indicated that it was unlikely to include twice weekly in person tuition for his 
children as Mr U claims he was led to believe. 
I note Mr U has indicated that because someone came to his house to sell the package this 
indicated to him that it involved in person tuition. He questions if this was an online only 
service why it is not sold online. I appreciate Mr Us comments and the impression he 
appears to have had from a salesperson coming to his home however, I dont think the fact 
the package was sold in person persuades me that Mr U was likely told that the package 
itself included in person tuition. 
While I have carefully thought about Mr Us testimony, in factoring in the leaflet he appears 
to have received, the monthly cost of the service offered and the materials the salesperson 
had to use to sell the package it seems less likely than not that in person tuition was falsely 
promised as a part of the package. Considering the testimony he has provided I think Mr U 
might have misunderstood the situation - however I am not persuaded that is enough here to 
say the package was actively misrepresented by the supplier.
The sale of the finance agreement
Mr U says he was not aware he was signing up to a finance agreement to pay for the 
package. 
My starting point here is that Mr U signed a loan agreement and that 3J Finance has sent 
system information to show that it sent a copy of this to Mr U shortly after he signed it. I am 
not sure why Mr U did not receive this  but on face value it appears 3J Finance made Mr U 
reasonably aware he was signing up to a loan agreement.
I accept there is a possible question mark over how much Mr U was able to read of the 
paperwork during the sale here because although the salesperson apparently spent some 
time with Mr U (across two visits) it appears the documents were all electronically signed in 
close proximity. However, even if I were to accept this I note in any event: 
- from his testimony about the sale Mr U appears to have at least been aware that he 
was signing up to a 5 year commitment and the price of the monthly commitment; 
- the testimony indicates that flexible or ongoing cancellation wasnt something Mr U 
appears to have had any discussions or assurances about from the salesperson at 
the time;
- he has not been clearly disadvantaged by signing up to a finance agreement as there 
is no interest payable on it; and
- by the time Mr U complained to the supplier (around the middle of 2021) about the 
package he was outside any withdrawal or cancellation period associated with said 
agreement. 
In summary, there is evidence to suggest that Mr U would have been reasonably aware that 
the package was being funded via a 5 year finance agreement. However, overall even if 
things could have been clearer I dont think this has caused Mr U a financial loss here in any 
event.Affordability of the finance agreement
Mr U has mentioned the impact of the monthly payment commitment on him and his family. 
Which I am sorry to hear about. As a result of what Mr U said this service used its 
inquisitorial remit to explore if the finance the supplier (acting as credit broker) sold to him 
was affordable in the first instance.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mr Us complaint. 
Having thought carefully about everything here I consider there to be certain questions to 
answer in order to decide Mr Us complaint fairly and reasonably. These are: 
- Did 3J Finance complete proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr U would be 
able to meet his obligations under the finance agreement in a sustainable way?
- If so did it fairly conclude that Mr U could sustainably make his repayments?
- If not, would such checks have shown that Mr U would have been able to do so?
In making my decision here I will also consider if there was some other way in which 3J 
Finance acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
If I determine that 3J Finance didnt act fairly and reasonably towards Mr U and that he lost 
out as a result I will go on to consider what fair compensation is due. In doing so I note the 
finance was interest free  however, there might be some other detriment Mr U has suffered 
in respect of signing up to the course he now says he is not benefiting from.
In considering whether 3J Finance carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr U was able to sustainably repay the agreement I note that the monthly 
commitment is relatively low  after a deposit of £55 the payments are around £47 a month. 
However, I also note that the commitment is over 5 years here  which is not a short amount 
of time. The overall commitment is not insignificant so 3J Finance should have looked 
carefully at information to indicate Mr U could sustainably repay this.
3J Finance has explained that it carried out a credit reference agency check and that Mr U 
signed a letter of affordability. I note that 3J Finance doesnt have a copy of the check it 
carried out. Furthermore, I dont think Mr U signing a letter of affordability shows that 3J 
Finance carried out appropriate borrower focused checks here. So my starting point is that I 
am not persuaded that 3J Finance carried out appropriate affordability checks.
However, even though 3J Finance has not persuaded me it carried out appropriate checks 
here I need to consider what appropriate checks would likely have shown it in any event. To 
do so out investigator has gathered information to show Mr Us financial situation at the time 
the loan was taken out leading up to the agreement start date in February 2020. 
After looking at Mr Us income and benefits received it appears he was averaging around 
£1,325 per month. It appears there were no existing credit commitments at the time but a 
monthly direct debit of £2.99 for an insurance product. 
Looking at Mr Us outgoings at the time is less clear because he pays for lots of things with 
cash. However, our investigator has looked at the cash withdrawals to build a picture of what 
appears to be Mr Us average monthly outgoings at the time. It appears this was around £1,106 a month. So on the face of it the monthly commitment to 3J Finance was not 
unaffordable at the time he took out the finance.
I appreciate that Mr U is very distressed at paying this each month now  and that his 
financial position might have changed since when he signed up for the product. However, 
that doesnt mean the lending was unaffordable at the start. If Mr U is now experiencing 
financial difficulties due to the repayments then 3J Finance should work with him in a 
positive and sympathetic way regarding what he owes it and any suitable repayment plans. 
If it does not then Mr U might be able to complain about this in future.
In summary, I dont consider that 3J Finance acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr U in 
granting him credit in February 2020, Furthermore, taking into account the overall 
circumstances here and my earlier findings in respect of its liability under Section 75 or 
Section 56 I do not consider it acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him in some other 
way. This means I am not upholding Mr Us complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman