DRN-2977401
The complaint
Mr B complains about the adverse information Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) have 
reported to his credit file.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Studio Retail, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let 
me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Studio Retail accept that they should have refunded the cost of the faulty bunk beds and that 
they were wrong to pass the debt, that included the cost of the bunk beds, to a third-party 
debt collector. But they say Mr B was wrong not to have made payments towards other 
items that were on his account and for which payment was rightly anticipated. They say that 
they were therefore right to report the account in default.
Mr B says that Studio Retail frequently told him not to pay anything towards his account until 
the cost of the bunk beds was credited and our investigator thought it was unfair for Studio 
Retail to report adverse information to Mr Bs credit file. 
I think Studio Retail were unreasonable to demand payment for a faulty item and leave that 
with the consumer for over a year. I dont think the balance they were claiming on the 
account could be considered accurate and, in those circumstances, I can understand Mr Bs 
confusion. Mr B says he was told not to make payments to his account by Studio Retail, but 
its not been possible to locate copies of those calls as they happened such a long time ago. 
On balance I think it was unreasonable for Studio Retail to record adverse information about 
Mr Bs account whilst this dispute persisted. The amount being claimed was inaccurate and 
stayed that way for some time and Mr B would clearly have been confused about what could 
be paid and what the minimum payment would be.
Putting things right
I think Studio Retail should remove all adverse information it has reported to the Credit 
Reference Agencies since this dispute started in March 2019, including the default. 
Studio Retail should also contact the debt management company it sold the debt to, to 
confirm whether the balance was cleared by Mr B as he says it was. If the balance was 
cleared, Studio Retail should request that the third-party debt company remove all 
information relating to this account, that was reported to the credit reference agencies.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Studio Retail Limited to:
remove all adverse information it has reported to the Credit Reference Agencies 
since March 2019;
if the debt collection agency confirm the debt was cleared by Mr B, Studio Retail 
should request that the third-party debt collection company remove all information 
relating to this account, that has been reported to the credit reference agencies.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman