DRN-2025320
The complaint
Ms G complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has unfairly 
recorded a claim she made under her motor insurance policy as a fault one.
What happened
Ms Gs car was hit by another car, causing scratches on the bumper, while it was parked in a 
car park. Ms G reported the incident to the Police, who were able to look at CCTV of the car 
park, but the incident wasnt recorded and so the Police were unable to confirm conclusively 
who had damaged Ms Gs car.
Ms G reported this to LV and made a claim under her motor insurance policy with it. LV 
arranged for the repairs to be completed and recorded the claim on the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database.
Ms G later discovered, when adding herself to her daughters policy as a named driver that 
LV had recorded the claim as a fault one. Ms G was upset by this and complained to LV.
LV explained that as it had no way of recovering the costs of the claim from any other party, 
it had to record the claim in this way. It did tell Ms G that should she wish to pay the costs of 
the claim herself it could change the way the claim was recorded to a notification only claim.
Ms G was unhappy with LVs answer and so brought her complaint to this service. The 
investigator considered Ms Gs points but didnt uphold her complaint as he felt that LV had 
acted fairly in dealing with the claim.
Ms G disagreed, in summary she said that to have the claim recorded as a fault claim, 
meant that she would have to declare this to other insurers in the future and as she wasnt to 
blame for the accident this would go against her values of honesty and integrity as its a lie. 
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have to tell Ms G that I think the investigator has reached the right outcome 
here and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain.
When a claim is made under an insurance policy it can be recorded in three separate ways:
Fault - where an insurer has had to pay out for repairs and is not able to recover all 
the costs associated with the claim from another party
Non-Fault  where an insurer has had to pay out for repairs and is has been able to 
recover all the costs associated with the claim from another party
Notification only  where the insurer hasnt had to pay out for any repairs, but an 
incident has been reported or it has paid for repairs, but the insured party has 
decided to pay the insurer back for the repairs (this can also be called buying back 
the claim)
None of the above have any bearing on blame  the categories solely reflect who bore the 
costs associated to any claim.
It is important any record added to CUE is accurate to ensure that insurers are able to 
correctly rate the risks they insure.
In Ms Gs case although she wasnt to blame for the damage caused to her car LV wasnt 
able to recover the costs associated with the claim as the party responsible is unknown. 
While I appreciate that Ms G wasnt to blame for the damage because LV has no way to 
recover the costs it had no choice but to record the claim as a fault one on CUE.
LV did offer Ms G the option to buy back the claim  this would mean it would change the 
status of the claim to notification only. If Ms G decides to do this, she will only have to 
declare a notification only incident to any future insurers, but this could still have an impact 
on future premiums.
I understand this is upsetting to Ms G as even if she chooses to buy back her claim her 
future premiums will likely be impacted by this incident. But that doesnt mean that LV has 
acted incorrectly or unfairly here, as it would record any incident of similar circumstances in 
the same way.
I know Ms G will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with LV can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman