DRN-2705977
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) declined transactions 
on his credit card.
What happened
Mr D had a credit card from Halifax. From August 2020 to December 2020, he had a lot of 
declined transactions. 
Mr D complained. He said that this was too many and caused him a lot of inconvenience. In 
December 2020, he tried to pay for a flight when abroad. This was also declined  and by 
the time he had the transaction approved, the flight price had increased. This cost him £180 
more as a result. He also had to call Halifax from abroad  and pay international call 
charges. He wants a refund of the increased fight price and a refund of his call costs. He 
didnt always get texts to advise him of a decline  so he didnt know what was going on.
On 8 January 2021, Halifax said they had security processes in place to prevent fraud. 
These included high risk merchants those which had a lot of fraud), multiple purchases with 
the same merchant in a short period, large and unusual amounts, and the number of 
contactless transactions exceeded. They hadnt declined any transactions for Mr D since 26 
December 2020. So  if there had been a decline, it may have been due to the merchant. 
Most of the time, when a decline happens, Mr D would usually be contacted by text  and he 
could then confirm the payment, or not, as genuine. On occasions, he might need to call 
Halifax to do this. They paid Mr D £75 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr D brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Halifax had acted fairly. There were 
two ways a transaction may be declined  firstly, for reasons such as the use of the wrong 
PIN, insufficient funds, too many contactless payments, or merchant declines  these 
wouldnt result in Halifax contacting Mr D. They are called policy declines. Or  payments 
might be declined for reasons of suspected fraud  and in these cases, Halifax would send a 
text to Mr D to confirm the transaction or  possibly need him to call them. All banks, 
including Halifax, have processes in place to guard against fraud.  And  these are what 
caused Mr Ds transactions to be declined. So  she could see that Halifax hadnt made an 
error and so had acted reasonably. She considered that the goodwill payment of £75 was 
also reasonable. She didnt think that Mr Ds call cost should be reimbursed.
Mr D didnt agree and asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at Halifaxs terms and conditions  they give them the right to decline payment if 
there are reasons of suspected fraud. They say: We may cancel or suspend use of the 
card, refuse to replace or reissue a card, or refuse to authorise a transaction or type of
transaction (even if your balance is under your credit limit) if: we consider it necessary to 
protect the security of the account or card; (or) is necessary as part of our procedures to 
prevent fraud or misuse of cards. You may be asked for further information, including proof 
of your identity, when we are asked to authorise a transaction;
All banks, including Halifax, now have sophisticated systems in place to prevent fraud taking 
place on cards  and to manage the way in which the overall card payments systems work.
That said, I did see a lot of declined transactions on Mr Ds credit card  and so we asked 
Halifax for a lot more information about Mr Ds card, the transactions and the declines  
which they provided. Weve gone through the data and several things are shown. 
Firstly, we saw that the declines throughout August to December 2020 were consistent with 
what our investigator found  that there was a combination of both policy declines and 
fraud declines.
Policy declines  these wouldnt usually have been advised to Mr D. These wouldve 
included the wrong PIN number being used, too many contactless transactions, or an 
inactive card used  or where the decline was made because of the nature of the merchant  
i.e. where that merchant has a history of experiencing fraud. In these cases, Mr D wouldnt 
have been contacted by Halifax. Where the decline was due to the status of the merchant, 
Halifax wouldnt be aware of that  and Mr D would need to take it up with the merchant. 
But we also saw  that there had been several declines because Mr D tried to use a new 
card that hadnt been activated. In both November 2020 and December 2020, Mr D was sent 
a new card. I could see that because it hadnt been activated, seven transactions were 
declined between 21 November 2020 and 23 November 2020  and after it was activated on 
23 November 2020, payments were then agreed. It may have been that the new cards were 
suggested by Halifax  when Mr D complained to them  I cant be sure. But it does look as 
though - because Mr D didnt activate the card, transactions were declined. And  these 
wouldnt have caused Halifax to get in touch with him. 
We could also see fraud declines - due to fraud checks where Halifax needed to check the 
transactions with Mr D by text or by phone. In these cases, we could see that SMS/text 
messages had been sent to Mr D. For example, I could see texts sent on nine occasions 
between 6 August 2020 and 11 August 2020, and on 15 December 2020.
Mr D raised specifically the problems he had on 31 December 2020  when he tried to pay 
for flights, and he told us that these were declined. We asked Halifax about these. And we 
saw Halifaxs records. They did authorise four payments totalling £522.33 on 31 December 
2020.  But - they didnt decline any payments on that day, or around that time to the flight 
company in question. So  I assume that they were policy declines for one of the reasons 
Ive given. And so  it wasnt a specific action taken by Halifax to decline on that occasion, 
and neither would they have necessarily got in touch with Mr D about what had happened.
I can see and appreciate that the number of declined transactions must have been 
frustrating for Mr D. But I hope he can see that weve investigated his complaint in depth. I 
can only decide that Halifax were at fault if theyve made an error in declining Mr Ds 
payments. And they didnt. And so  while I can see that this will be disappointing for Mr D, I 
wont be asking Halifax to do anymore here.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman