DRN-3821947
The complaint
Mrs V is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited has stopped paying a claim she made on a 
group income protection policy. 
What happened
Mrs V has an underlying health condition. In 2017 she reduced her working hours due to ill 
health and Aviva accepted a claim she made on her employers group income protection. At 
that time her job was that of Finance Director. 
In 2019 Mrs V decided to reduce her working hours again, due to her ill health. Her job title 
also changed to Founder Director. Her claim for increased benefit was accepted by Aviva. 
The following year in 2020 Mrs V said that she wanted to retire due to ill health. Aviva said 
that there wasnt enough evidence to support this. 
Mrs V complained to Aviva. In their final response letter, they explained they didnt think the 
medical evidence supported a deterioration in her condition to the extent that she could no 
longer work at all. And, they said that Mrs V hadnt worked in her insured occupation as a 
Finance Director since 2020 and hadnt been carrying out another occupation on a full or 
part time basis. So, they said theyd paid a benefit to Mrs V for some time even though she 
hadnt been entitled to it. They said they wouldnt seek to recover the overpayment but 
wouldnt be making any further payments of the benefit after a specified date. They also 
offered Mrs V the opportunity to return to work on a part time basis before the benefit 
payments were stopped. 
There was further correspondence between Mrs V and Aviva. In a further response to Mrs V 
Aviva said that there was no reason why she couldnt work part-time as a Finance Director, 
but shed stepped down from that role. So, they said they couldnt continue to pay a 
proportionate benefit. They also highlighted a conversation theyd had with Mrs V where 
shed confirmed that she hadnt been working two days per week since 2020. Whilst Aviva 
accepted that Mrs V remained a Founder Director and shareholder they thought it was 
reasonable to conclude that this was for tax purposes  they didnt think it was sufficient to 
meet what was required in the policy terms and conditions to pay her a proportionate benefit.  
Mrs Vs complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator looked into what had 
happened and didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, he thought Aviva had acted fairly 
because Mrs V was no longer in her insured role as a Finance Director. He thought Aviva 
had been notified of her change in job role in 2019. 
However, the investigator also explained that the available evidence showed Mrs Vs 
involvement in the business had been more limited since 2020 as she was being paid a fixed 
fee for attending meetings and giving ad hoc advice. There was also evidence that Mrs V 
remained as a Founder Director and board member for tax purposes. So, he didnt think 
Aviva had acted unreasonably by stopping payments to Mrs V. He also noted that Aviva had 
continued to pay proportionate benefit up for some time after September 2020 but wasnt 
seeking to recover any overpayment theyd made to Mrs V.
Mrs V didnt agree. She said the policy covered Founder Directors and queried when the 
insured category changed from covering all directors including Founder Directors to the 
Financial Director. And she didnt agree that the roles she played in the company were 
relevant. So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
In order to make a successful claim on the policy its for Mrs V to show that she meets the 
policy definition of incapacity, not for Aviva to show she doesnt. The policy definition of 
incapacity says it means: 
The members inability to perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her 
job role as a result of their illness or injury. 
Job role is defined as:
A members job role with the policyholder at the time the incapacity starts.
The policy will pay a proportionate benefit: 
If before the incapacity the member was actively at work and following their 
job role and; 
If incapacity has lasted for at least five working days; and as a result of injury 
the member is either: 
Following their job role on a part-time basis; or 
Following any other occupation 
In either case with a reduction of earnings. 
Was the claim fairly declined?
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. Im not upholding Mrs Vs complaint because: 
The insured category hasnt changed as Mrs V has suggested  the policy covers 
directors, including Founder Directors.  At the time Mrs V became too unwell to work 
full time her job role was Finance Director. So thats her insured occupation. When Mrs V said she was no longer able to work part time, and wanted to stop work, 
Aviva weighed up the medical evidence that was provided. I think it was reasonable 
for them to conclude she could continue to work part time. The medical evidence 
doesnt suggest that there had been a significant change in Mrs Vs health to the 
extent that she could no longer work at all. And it doesnt give a detailed or 
meaningful insight into why Mrs V couldnt continue to work on a part time basis in 
her insured occupation.
I think Aviva fairly assessed the medical evidence when considering if Mrs V was 
now totally incapacitated to the extent that she couldnt work. That included seeking 
guidance from their Chief Medical Officer who reviewed the medical evidence and 
commented on it. 
Mrs V changed roles and became a Founder Director  her role and responsibilities 
changed and adapted over time so that she was providing more of the support 
function to other internal stakeholders. It seems that this enabled the business to 
continue to benefit from her knowledge and experience, whilst relieving some of the 
pressure Mrs V felt under. 
I think it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude that since late 2020 Mrs Vs 
responsibilities have been more ad hoc in nature rather than a regular part time 
working arrangement. Thats supported by both the testimony from Mrs V and 
information provided by the company. So, theres no clear or compelling evidence 
that she was still working in her insured occupation on a part time basis since 2020. 
Rather, the evidence suggests that its most likely it was tax efficient for Mrs V to 
maintain a presence in the company whilst offering some guidance and support on 
an ad hoc basis. 
I understand why changing or adapting her job role may have been the right decision 
for Mrs V to make, bearing in mind that she was finding the role of Finance Director 
stressful and because she was worried about the impact of Covid-19 on her health. 
But it was Mrs Vs decision to step down from the role and it doesnt automatically 
follow that Mrs V should receive a full benefit. I think Aviva has fairly assessed her 
claim in line with the relevant policy terms when deciding if it can continue to pay a 
proportionate benefit. And, based on the available evidence I think Aviva has fairly 
concluded that she most likely remained as a form of consultant for tax purposes, 
providing some limited ad hoc assistance when the business needed it. 
Aviva could have stopped paying the claim when Mrs V stopped working in a part 
time capacity  this was when she says she became a consultant to the business. 
Aviva didnt stop paying the claim and this may have been an oversight on their part. 
If so, its unfortunate that this wasnt identified at an earlier time. However, Aviva has 
decided not to recover the money its paid to Mrs V since 2019. I think thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman