DRN-1813512
complaint
Ms B complains she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by Santander UK 
Plc (Santander).
background
Ms B took out a PPI policy with Santander in 2005. It would have covered her mortgage 
repayments for up to 12 months at a time if she couldnt work due to an accident or sickness. 
It did not cover unemployment.
Ms B says she didnt know the policy was optional. She says she was coerced to buy it. She 
says she didnt need it and had she been given all the terms and conditions she wouldnt 
have bought it. 
The adjudicator didnt think Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. Ms B disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ms B didnt have a mortgage with Santander at the time of sale. And she didnt take one out 
with Santander when she bought the PPI. She had a mortgage with another provider until 
2007, and Santander has provided evidence to show this. 
So the PPI couldnt have been a condition of Ms Bs mortgage, and there doesnt seem to 
have been a reason why Ms B would have felt coerced to buy it. Ms B says she was led to 
believe shed have a better chance of being approved for her mortgage if she bought it, but 
this cant be the case. Its possible Ms B is remembering her conversation with Santander a 
few years later when she did take a mortgage out with Santander. 
On balance, Im satisfied Ms B bought the PPI in 2005 knowing she had a choice about it. 
Santander advised Ms B to buy the PPI so it had a duty to take reasonable steps to make 
sure it was right for her. Looking at Ms Bs circumstances at the time I think that it was. I say 
this because:
 
Ms B was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any terms which might have 
made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those related to 
existing medical conditions;Ms B had some contractual sick pay available to her. But the policy would have paid 
out in addition to this and potentially for up to a year at a time. So it offered an 
additional benefit;
Ms B says she had life and critical illness cover so she didnt need the PPI. 
Santander has provided evidence that Ms B told it that she had life cover. But this 
isnt the same type of insurance as PPI. It wouldnt have paid out if she was alive but 
unable to work because of sickness. I havent seen evidence of Ms Bs critical illness 
cover and she didnt tell Santander about this, but again  critical illness insurance 
doesnt provide the same cover as PPI. It will only pay out on diagnosis of a very 
serious illness, and wont cover less serious illness that leads to taking extended time 
off work;
Ms B says her family would have helped her out with her mortgage if she was too ill 
to work. But the PPI would have meant she didnt need to rely on anyone else. And 
her family may not have always been in a position to help her out;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other similar products on the market around 
the same time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled without penalty at any time. 
And I havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable for Ms B. 
 
Santander also needed to make sure Ms B had enough information about the policy to make 
her own informed decision. I am satisfied that Ms B would have  as a very minimum - 
understood she was buying a policy designed to meet her mortgage repayments if she 
couldnt work due to an accident or sickness. And although I cant be sure Ms B had all the 
other detail she ideally shouldve done, I dont think shed have acted differently and not 
bought the policy if shed had all the information. I say this because the policy was suitable 
for her in the way Ive already described.
Ms B has told this service that she is sure she has documents which support her case, but 
which she couldnt find at the time. We gave Ms B several months to find them but we 
havent received anything, and I dont think waiting any longer would be fair to all parties.
So, on balance, I dont think Ms B lost out because of anything Santander might have done 
wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint, so it follows that Santander UK Plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7July2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman