DRN-1627912
 
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy about a call she received from The Co-operative Bank p.l.c. (Co-op).
What happened
Miss R has a bank account with Co-op. She received a call from the bank on 
21 October 2019 which lasted around five minutes. She said the call was to question a 
single payment into her account of £21,500 and there were threats about closing her 
account. Miss R said the bank employee wanted to know what the payment was for. She 
said the agent informed her about anti-fraud measures and her account being closed. 
Miss R said that outside of money laundering and fraud allegations, the bank has no right to 
question her about deposits and her money. Miss R said the creditor was a housing trust. 
She said that as they hadnt made a claim of fraud or denied crediting the funds as means of 
a legal settlement, the bank shouldnt be questioning her. Miss R said this is irregular 
practice. She said by the end of the call she realised she was being accused of fraud. She 
wants the bank to refrain from contacting her about indirect allegations of frauds and 
associated threats. She feels the allegations are prejudiced and unfounded.
Miss R also complained that any such claims should be conveyed to her in writing and not 
via telephone call. Miss R has referred to a financial conduct authority publication to support 
that she shouldnt have been targeted when there were no allegations.
She said the employee said that the bank is always concerned about large credits and 
debits. She feels this is untrue as she paid £7,500 to another body, but they didnt question 
this. She feels that any fraud claim from the bank should be using the Fraud Act 2006 as a 
basis to their investigation, and she feels the criteria wasnt met.
Miss R said the bank is aware shes a disabled client, and she feels the questioning wasnt 
direct and therefore this is disability discrimination. She said the call was confusing and she 
felt as though the call was to get her to confess wrongdoing by mistake. She said she didnt 
consent for the bank to call her via telephone, and she wants important correspondence sent 
to her in writing.
Co-op has said it cant agree it acted incorrectly, and it is obliged to undertake due diligence 
checks in line with regulatory and fraud prevention procedures. It confirmed it contacted 
Miss R in a way permitted in its terms and conditions for her account.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He appreciated that Miss R felt 
targeted as she has conducted banking in line with her terms and conditions, but he thought 
Co-op has an obligation to monitor its banking relationship and unusual transactions. 
Therefore, he didnt think Co-op had done anything wrong by contacting Miss R to find out 
more information about the transaction in question. He also thought Miss R was contacted in 
a way permitted by the terms and conditions of the account.
He thought it was worth noting that Co-op has agreed to try to make adjustments for 
Miss Rs communication needs, but it hasnt heard back from Miss R regarding this. Miss R 
has said that she didnt feel the questions were direct which made communication difficult. 
He thought this was something she can ask the business to adjust going forward. He thought 
Miss R needs to give Co-op details about any specific communication needs she has so that 
future ease of communication can be improved.
He didnt think it was unreasonable for the bank employee to tell Miss R that her account 
could be closed. If a customer doesnt comply with its due diligence checks a bank can make 
the business decision to close the account. Furthermore, he didnt think it was wrong for the 
agent to mention anti-fraud procedures to explain why it was questioning a large credit. He 
could appreciate that Miss R felt targeted, but it is normal practice for banks to carry out 
customer due diligence checks. He didnt think it was reasonable for Miss R to have been 
caused significant inconvenience from a five-minute call questioning genuine transactions. 
Miss R said she felt as if the bank employee was trying to get her to admit wrongdoing but 
ultimately if the account is conducted as per the terms and conditions, theres no reason for 
Miss R to be concerned. 
Miss R disagrees she says it is very convenient that the bank does not have the recording of 
the call. Due to this being the case she thinks it is being overlooked that she was threatened, 
and proper protocol was not taken. She thinks the bank is duty bound to keep all evidence 
so that telephone communication should be available. She points out the caller hasnt been 
interviewed or provided a written statement of what the protocols are. It hasnt been 
established if he checked her file to know she was disabled, and she questions where in the 
policy does it state the caller was to take the place of a police officer and try and interrogate 
her and trick her when no crime took place. She says threatening people is illegal in this 
country. She says if she had done fraud the bank would have no need to threaten her as it 
would simply act by holding her account, contacting the police and the matter becomes 
criminal so even if this matter is a case of the telephone operative going too far it is a case 
that needs to be answered as she is not satisfied with what the investigator has said. She 
says the bank employee told her she should register with Companies House and open a 
business account as she has a lot of money going into her account. This raises alarm bells 
to her as what he was telling her wasnt allowed so in Co-ops position, she can understand 
why it doesnt have the recording available.
She also says she has worked for another banks fraud team and in that case, she only dealt 
with clients who had millions of pounds and when they uncovered fraud the team didnt call 
clients and threaten them, so she knows the difference between protocol and bad behaviour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry that Miss R felt threatened by the call. I can understand why she feels the 
questions should have been sent to her by letter particularly given her disability and her 
communication preferences. My role here is to look at what the bank did and decide if it did 
anything wrong. Notwithstanding my sympathy for Miss R, I dont think the bank did anything 
wrong and Ive explained why below. 
All banks have systems which flag up potential fraud. Miss R has referred to cases where 
the person who has made a payment has made a claim of fraud. This is one thing that might 
cause a bank to investigate an account. But questions can also be raised by other things, for 
example because of the size of a payment. In this case the payment into Miss Rs account 
triggered a warning of potential fraud. In these cases, banks usually want to contact a 
customer quickly and to speak to that customer. Miss Rs accounts terms and conditions 
allow this. So, I dont think Co-op was wrong to call her. I appreciate Miss R has experience 
in a different bank of things being dealt with differently. That doesnt mean that Co-op was 
wrong here. Miss R says she found the call confusing and she felt there was trickery and lies. Im sorry 
she felt this way. Unfortunately, a recording of the call isnt available. Miss R thinks the bank 
should have kept a call recording. Unlike Miss R, I dont draw an adverse conclusion from a 
call recording not be available. The bank satisfied itself the payment was legitimate, and no 
further action was necessary, so it didnt need to keep a call recording if one was ever taken.
As there is no call recording, I need to consider what both parties have said about the call to 
decide whether anything wrong occurred. Co-op has provided a note of the call. It says: 
Customer advised that the large credit from [a housing trust] was a legal settlement. The 
customer also advised that credits from multiple third-party accounts is from child minding 
which she uses to pay her university fees as she is still a student. Customer states she does 
not have a company. 
Miss R says of the call: I received a call from the bank today at 12.19 which lasted for 5 
minutes and 29 seconds and this call was tailored about threats to close my account and I 
was also questioned about a single payment into my account of £21,5k.
The male who called said the reason for the call was about the single payment listed above 
and wanted to know what it was for. Outside of money laundry and fraud allegations the 
bank has no right to question me on my deposits and my money in general when the money 
has not been illegally sought and there is no trace or allegation or proof of wrongdoing. The 
creditor [a Housing Trust] has not made a claim of fraud nor have they denied crediting 
these funds as means of legal settlement so why is the bank contacting me about antifraud?
This is irregular practice as you have protocols to deal with such matters outside of calling 
me for 5 minutes about fraud, in any case I confirmed to the bank that these funds were a 
part of a legal settlement, which is also reflected in the payment details. However, your 
operative was hell bent on informing me about anti- fraud measures and my account being 
closed. 
As Ive already explained the bank wasnt wrong to contact Miss R by phone when it had 
concerns about a payment into her account. Miss Rs view is that the bank was wrong to 
contact her in this way. I think this coloured her view of the call and so as the bank asked her 
things, she felt the bank tried to trick her or lied or was threatening her. I think it just wanted 
to establish whether the payments into the account were legitimate. Once it had the 
explanation no further action was taken.
Its not clear to me why there was a discussion about whether Miss R had a company or not. 
I agree with her that it isnt for the bank to give her advice on this matter. But even if it did, 
given the whole call lasted just over five minutes, I dont think Miss R suffered any significant 
inconvenience.
Co-op has offered to discuss Miss Rs disability with her further so it can better understand 
any reasonable adjustments it can make. I think this is fair. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman