DRN-1860383
The complaint
Mr E complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos has unfairly 
recorded a default on his credit file. He wants the default removed.
What happened
Mr E tells us that he made a number of purchases on his Argos credit account during 
November 2016. He says these were made using the Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) option. But 
he later found that two items were faulty. Mr E says he was given conflicting information 
about whether these items needed to be returned to a store or collected from him. Mr E says 
he advised Argos he hadnt paid off the remaining balance due to the faulty items. He said 
that Argos advised that upon the return of the items the account would be updated, and hed 
be able to pay off the balance. Mr E explains that he then suffered a period of serious ill 
health which meant he lost his employment. And when payments werent made, he said the 
account was defaulted. Mr E states he was unaware of this at the time as hed moved 
address due to his illness. He says that apart from the Argos default his credit record is 
unblemished. But he's now experiencing difficulty in obtaining credit.
Argos said it applied the default correctly as items on the account had remained unpaid. And 
that as the information it reported to credit reference agencies had to be correct it said it 
wouldnt remove the default.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said that as the 
required payments on the account hadnt been made, Argos hadnt made an error in 
recording the default.
Mr E wasnt satisfied with this outcome and emphasised hed not been aware of the default 
warning as the letters had been sent to his previous address. As its not been possible to 
resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr E would be anxious and upset by the recording of a default on his credit 
record. And the subsequent difficulty that this has created in his accessing credit. 
Mr Es complaint contains several elements. These relate to the faulty goods; confusing 
information provided by Argos; non  receipt of the notice of default and the alleged 
unfairness of the default.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
In our investigators first view she set out a timeline which Ill not repeat in detail as the 
parties have seen it.
Summarised, it showed that monthly statements had been sent to Mr E stating that the 
BNPL period for items purchased on 8 November 2016 ended on 22 May 2017. And that 
payment of £428.87 was required. Under the terms of the BNPL option if payment in full 
wasnt made by that date the deferred interest would be applied and the account would 
revert to the normal credit plan with minimum monthly payments required.
No payments were made and the default was recorded on 20 September 2017. Mr E says 
he didnt receive the default notice or the earlier warning as due to his illness hed moved 
away from the address where hed previously been living. I cant say that Argos is at fault as 
notices were sent to the address it had on file. And the default had already been recorded 
when it was notified of a change of address.
Im aware Mr E has said there were various contacts with Argos before September 2017, but 
the first note recorded about this matter is that of 25 September when the change of address 
was also noted. It may be that some of the contacts were made directly to branches or the 
warehouse. In which case it wouldnt necessarily be recorded on the main customer service 
system.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I empathise with the situation that Mr E faced with the serious illness and the effect this had 
on his employment and finances. But in order to require Argos to remove the default Id have 
to find it had made a mistake or acted unfairly in recording it or refusing to remove it.
Theres a dispute about precisely what Mr E was advised and whether he was told he should 
withhold payments pending the dispute about the faulty items. Im not doubting that Mr E 
understood this to be the case. But the terms and conditions of the agreement stated when 
payments were to be made. And in the absence of telephone recordings or a written 
agreement from Argos to the effect he neednt make them, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable 
for me to say that such an arrangement was in place. Its hard to think that such a major 
alteration to terms and conditions wouldnt have been documented.
Its also the case that no payments for the items that werent faulty were made. Nor for the 
item that was later ordered separately in November 2016. And whilst I can see that Mr E has 
since offered to make payment, I cant see that at the time the investigator issued her view in 
February 2020 that this had been made.
Ive not dealt with the issue of the potential section 75 claim for faulty goods as Ive 
insufficient information. And I cant see it was directly brought up with Argos. Our investigator 
mentioned that Mr E should make a separate complaint if he wished to pursue this issue. 
And that remains the situation. I notice that Argos mentioned that his notification of the faults 
was made outside its warranty period. But if a claim is available under section 75 this could 
potentially be brought up to six years after the purchase.In summary, I find that Argos acted reasonably in defaulting the account when it did. And 
that it had sent the correct notices to the address last notified to it by Mr E. The required 
payments hadnt been made at the time of the default and based on the information supplied 
to me have remained unpaid.
I accept that Mr E will be disappointed at my final decision. It remains open to him to seek to 
record a notice of correction on his credit file. This allows him to explain the circumstances of 
the default. And bring it to the attention of potential lenders.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman