DRN-3688362
The complaint
Miss C complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), didnt respond to or uphold a 
claim she made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system she says were misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Miss C is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
n or around August 2016, Miss C was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Miss C decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In June 2021, the CMC made a claim on Miss Cs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced 
Miss C to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had 
been made:
The solar panels would be self-funding and would pay for themselves as the benefit 
would cover not only the purchase cost but also the finance costs; and
the solar panels would pay for themselves over the loan period from the combined 
benefits of the Feed-in-Tariff and electricity bill reduction; and 
Miss Cs electricity bills would significantly reduce; and
a voltage optimiser would maximise the energy savings.
Further, the CMC said:
the finance agreement included a 2-month deferred payment period which Miss C 
didnt request; and
Miss C was left with estimates/predictions which do not reflect what she was told by 
the sales representative; and
based upon current levels of performance and assumed benefits, the panels will take 
over 97 years to pay for themselves.
Shawbrook didnt issue a final response. So, the CMC asked this service to consider Miss 
Cs complaint.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Miss C and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons;
It is no defence to a misrepresentation that Miss C could have discovered that 
statements verbally made were untrue by taking more care; and
Miss Cs recollections of the sales meeting havent been considered, despite 
Shawbrook not providing evidence to the contrary. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Miss C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Miss C could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way she could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss C 
and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider was most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is 
available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Miss C says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, entitled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation. Ive considered these, along with Miss Cs testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, have 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P wouldve discussed this in detail with Miss C, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to her agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Ive also noted the CMCs letter of the complaint to Shawbrook confirms that Miss C was left 
with estimates/predictions which showed the income the solar panels were expected to 
generate.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Miss Cs 
version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. It also sets 
out the cash price of the goods.On balance Im satisfied that Miss C was told that the cost of the system was £7,309. The 
quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the cash price of the system was £7,309. The monthly payment was £96.44. The total 
amount of credit is £7,209 after a deposit of £100 and goes on to show that the total amount 
payable would be £11,672.80.
The credit agreement clearly shows that the first repayment wouldnt fall due until three 
months after the loan was first advanced. This was signed and accepted by Miss C. 
Shawbrook also wrote to Miss C in November 2016 to remind her that the payment deferral 
period was ending.
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
she was told there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £7,309, it would 
cost Miss C more than this as she had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
Self-funding
Miss C has said she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and electricity savings. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Miss C could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Miss C could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £104.68, which results in an average monthly income of £8.72. As 
outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there would 
be a monthly loan repayment due of £96.44. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Miss C 
was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Miss C could expect from the system. 
The expected year one electricity saving is £182.31 and, when taking into account the 
optional extras chosen by Miss C the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£440.59. This is shown in a table entitled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months, as this is the 
length of the loan that Miss C entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 120 monthly payments of £94.87. This is slightly lees than in the credit 
agreement due to the three-month payment deferral. For each year of the 10-year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £94.87, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Miss C could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, wouldnt be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. This supports my finding above that the consumer wasnt told 
that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about 
the consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central 
part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I 
can reasonably find that Miss C was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Miss C that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Miss C was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 17 the overall benefits that Miss C could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Miss C that the system would pay for itself by 
year 17, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the 
contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
System performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Miss C. The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is 
expected to produce 1,561.23 kWh a year.
I have looked at Miss Cs FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 1,637.54 kWh up to September 2019. This is slightly more than estimated by P at 
the point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases were lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why she hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have been 
correspondingly lower.
As Ive explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available from 
the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to 
have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Miss C couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, while I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Miss C entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Miss C to 
enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman