DRN-2017804
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say National Westminster Bank plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy in 2002 when they applied for a mortgage in one of the 
banks branches. The cover gave them protection against accident, sickness and 
unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
NatWest had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs S the PPI was optional, and they had to agree to 
take it. Mr and Mrs S say they felt pressured to take out PPI and were led to believe there 
would be a negative impact on their credit application if they didnt. Their representative says 
the form was too similar to their mortgage application and they could have signed it without 
realising. 
I cant know what was said in the meeting, so Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Ss 
comments and looked at the paperwork available from the sale. On Mr and Mrs Ss 
mortgage offer it said You have selected a monthly benefit of £500 on a joint basis under 
Mortgage Repayment Protector . This suggests me it was presented to them as optional. 
The cost was also set out separately there. They also completed and signed a separate 
direct debit mandate for the PPI. And there is nothing on the form that I think could 
reasonably have led them to think the PPI was mandatory. I havent been able to find strong 
enough evidence to support their claim they were pressured to take it. I have considered 
their comments carefully, but I also have to take into account how long ago the sale was and 
how that might affect what they recall.
So overall, I think its most likely NatWest made it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr and 
Mrs S chose to take it.
Both parties told us NatWest didnt recommend the PPI. This means it didnt have to make 
sure the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs S. But it had to give clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the PPI so that they could make a properly informed choice.
Its possible NatWest didnt give Mr and Mrs S as much information as it shouldve done. But 
I dont think better information wouldve put them off taking out the PPI. I say this because:
It seems Mr and Mrs S were eligible for the cover, and wouldnt have been affected by 
any of the main things not covered by the policy.
Mr S told us he was entitled to eight months full pay and eight months half pay if he was 
off work sick, and Mrs S was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if 
she was off work sick. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to their work benefits and 
for up to 12 months. It also gave them up to 12 months redundancy cover. Given the 
consequences for Mr and Mrs S of defaulting on a debt secured against their home, I 
think the PPI would have been useful for them if they were sick or lost their job(s).
I dont know when the cost was first made clear to Mr and Mrs S - it was set out on their 
mortgage offer - but I havent seen any evidence that the PPI premium was unaffordable, 
and the policy was competitively priced.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman