DRN-2749511
The complaint
Ms T says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1999, Ms T took out a PPI policy alongside the mortgage she was getting from Lloyds. 
She paid a monthly amount for the policy and it would have covered her mortgage 
repayments for up to 12 months if she had made a successful claim.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ts case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Lloyds should have made it clear to Ms T that she had a choice in buying the PPI. Ms T says 
she didnt know the policy was optional and she was told she had to have it to obtain the 
borrowing. Lloyds has said Ms T would have been made aware she had a choice about 
buying it. And its provided us with copies of the PPI documents Ms T completed at the time. 
There is a proposal form for the PPI which has been completed and Ms T has signed. This 
leads me to think that there was a discussion around the policy and Ms T selected the level 
of cover which best suited her circumstances at the time. And based on what I know about 
how Lloyds sold policies like this at the time, I think the optional nature would have been 
made clear. 
So I think it most likely that Lloyds made Ms T aware that she had a choice about buying the 
PPI, and that she chose to take it  although I can understand why she cant remember this 
now. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms T, so it had to make sure the policy was right for her. 
From what Ive seen, it seems to have been suitable for Ms T based on her circumstances at 
the time. Ill explain why:
Ms T met the policys requirements so was eligible for it.
Ms T says she would have received sick pay benefits from her employer. In the event 
of a successful claim, the PPI wouldve paid her mortgage repayments for up to 12 
months if she was unable to work due to being too unwell. It would have also covered 
her if she became unemployed. The policy wouldve paid out alongside Ms Ts 
employee benefits. This would have meant she could have used any sick pay she got 
to pay for other essential costs. 
It doesnt look like there was anything about Ms Ts circumstances that wouldve 
made it difficult for her to claim. For example, she didnt have any unusual working 
patterns or an existing medical condition. 
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Ms T would still have bought it. Ms T was taking on a large financial 
commitment - on her own - secured against her home. So, I think she would have 
wanted the security of knowing her mortgage repayments were covered if she was 
too sick to work or became unemployed. 
It doesnt look like the policy was unaffordable for her and she could have cancelled 
the PPI at any time if she no longer had a need or didnt want it.  
As well as making sure the PPI was right for her, Lloyds should have taken reasonable steps 
to point out the main things the policy didnt cover to Ms T. I dont know if Lloyds did point 
these things out. But Ive explained why I think the PPI was right for Ms T. And I dont think 
clearer information wouldve changed her decision. I think she still would have bought it. I 
say this for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable for her. 
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Ms T has lost out as a result of anything 
Lloyds mightve done wrong. 
I know Ms T feels strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Shes put time and 
effort into her complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points shes raised, but for 
the reasons explained above, these points dont change my outcome. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman