DRN-4454139
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Barclays Bank Plc, trading as Barclaycard, wont reimburse a transfer
he made to them in error.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr C attempted to instruct a balance transfer from a third-party credit account
to his Barclays credit account. Unfortunately, Mr C input the incorrect details for his Barclays
account, meaning that the money wasnt received into his Barclays account.
Mr C contacted the sending bank about this, but they confirmed that the money had been
sent to Barclays and hadnt been returned back to them. Mr C therefore contacted Barclays
and asked them to locate and recover his money for them. But Barclays couldnt find Mr Cs
money and kept asking for further information which he couldnt provide. Mr C wasnt happy
about this, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to Mr C and confirmed that they were unable to locate the money he
had sent. However, Barclays did accept that Mr C hadnt received the standard of service
from them surrounding his request that he should have received, including that Mr C had
been given differing reasons as to why the payment couldnt be located. Barclays apologised
to Mr C for this and made a payment of £50 to him as compensation for any upset or trouble
he may have incurred. Mr C wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that Barclays had first told this
service that they believed the payment had been automatically returned to the sending bank,
but that Barclays correspondence with the sending bank appeared to confirm that the
payment had been received by Barclays, albeit into another persons account. Because of
this, our investigator said that Barclays should reimburse the payment amount to Mr C.
Barclays didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 November 2023 as follows:
Its accepted by all parties that Mr C made an error when instructing the balance transfer
which resulted in Barclays receiving the balance transfer funds in conjunction with account
details that didnt correspond to Mr Cs Barclays credit account.
However, its not yet fully understood whether the incorrect account details input by Mr C
corresponded with another Barclays credit account  i.e. an unintended third-party persons
Barclays credit account  or whether the incorrectly input details didnt correspond to any
Barclays credit account.
This is significant because without knowing which of the two possibilities described above is
correct, its difficult to understand with any certainty exactly whats happened here.
In the first instance, if the account details did correspond to another Barclays account, then
it seems likely to me that the money Mr C transferred would have been received by an
unintended recipient  the third-party person whose account details Mr C input by mistake.
Alternatively, in the second instance, if the incorrectly input account details didnt correspond
with a Barclays account, then it seems likely to me that Mr Cs money would have been
automatically returned to the sending bank. And I say this because Barclays have confirmed
that, in instances when a balance transfer is received without the information required to
allocate that money to one of their credit accounts  as would be the case in this instance 
then that money is returned to the sending bank as per their process.
So, given the above, it seems to me that either Mr Cs money has already been returned by
Barclays to the sending bank, or Mr Cs money has been received into the Barclays account
of an unintended recipient.
If the money has already been returned by Barclays to the sending bank, then Barclays have
no further action to take here. But Mr C has explained that his sending bank have no record
of receiving his money. And its notable that on 20 December 2022, internal communication
within Barclays suggests that Mr Cs money was received into an unintended recipients
Barclays account, but that recovery of Mr Cs money wasnt possible because no funds
remained in the account of the unintended recipient into which the money was received.
Importantly, in either of the scenarios described above, Barclays didnt do anything wrong.
This is because the error was made by Mr C, who input the account details incorrectly when
instructing the balance transfer. And so, if Mr Cs money was received by an unintended
recipient, Im satisfied that this was a consequence of Mr Cs mistake, and not the result of
any error by Barclays.
Furthermore, if money is transferred to an unintended recipient in error by an account holder,
and that money is then withdrawn from the account by the unintended recipient, then a bank
such as Barclays isnt generally expected by this service to credit that money to the person
who instructed the transfer in error. This is because if the bank were to do so, then that
bank, which hasnt made any error, would be accepting and taking on the financial loss of
the person who instructed the transfer and who did make the mistake. And this clearly would
not be fair.
Accordingly, if it is the case that Mr Cs money was received into an unintended recipients
account, and was then removed from the account by that unintended recipient, I feel that this
would be a civil matter between Mr C and the unintended recipient  although it would be
expected that Barclays would provide Mr C with the necessary information about the
unintended recipient to allow him to pursue this matter with that person himself.
All of which means that my provisional decision is that I wont be upholding the primary
aspect of Mr Cs complaint and that I wont be instructing Barclays to reimburse the transfer
amount to Mr C.
However, I will be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mr Cs favour on the basis of the
poor standard of service Mr C has received from Barclays surrounding this matter. And this
includes that it remains unclear whether Mr Cs money was received by an unintended
recipient or not.
Because of this, Ill be provisionally instructing Barclays to make a further payment of £150to Mr C as compensation for the trouble and upset that hes incurred here, and to confirm
whether the incorrect account information that Mr C provided to them did or did not
correspond to another of their accounts.
It would be expected that Barclays would provide confirmation of this point to Mr C within 28
days of the date of this letter, and so before any final decision on this complaint is issued by
myself. Should Barclays fail to provide clear confirmation of this point to Mr C within 28 days,
then its likely that Ill issue a further provisional decision awarding increased compensation
to Mr C at that time.
Finally, if it is the case that Mr Cs money was received by an unintended recipient, then it
would be expected that Barclays would provide confirmation of when that money was
removed from the unintended recipients account along with confirmation of when they first
attempted to recover that money on Mr Cs behalf. Again, I reserve the right to award further
compensation to Mr C dependent on the nature of this further information.
Barclays responded to my provisional decision and confirmed that Mr Cs money was sent 
back to the sending bank because the incorrect information Mr C inputted didnt correspond 
with any of their accounts. This means that it wasnt the case that Mr Cs money was 
received by an unintended recipient. 
Barclays also provided the sort-code and account number of the account with the sending 
bank that Mr Cs money was sent back to, and these have been provided to Mr C under a 
separate cover to hopefully enable him to locate his missing money with the sending bank.
Mr C responded to my provisional decision and reiterated the difficulties hed had when 
trying to resolve this matter, both with Barclays and the sending bank.
I can appreciate Mr Cs frustration here, but in consideration of the responses Ive received 
from both himself and Barclays, my position on this matter remains as Ive described it in my 
provisional decision. And this means that my final decision here will be that I uphold this 
complaint against Barclays on the limited basis that they must make a further payment of 
£150 to Mr C as compensation for the trouble and upset that hes incurred.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr C was wanting, but I hope that the information 
sent to him separately regarding the sort-code and account number of the sending bank to 
which his money was returned will enable him to locate and recover his money.
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £150 to Mr C, in addition to the £50 compensation theyve 
already paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclay Bank Plc, trading as 
Barclaycard, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman