DRN-2914324
The complaint
Miss M complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) held her at fault following a 
claim made on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss M was making a three point turn when a moped rider collided with her car. RSA 
investigated the event. There were no independent witnesses or CCTV evidence available. It 
took legal advice that said Miss M would be held fully liable if the matter went to court. So it 
settled the moped riders claim. RSA agreed that there had been delays in providing Miss M 
with a courtesy car. And it offered her £30 compensation for this. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In the absence of 
any other independent evidence, RSA relied on what it thought a court would decide. She 
thought it was entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. So she couldnt say it 
had done anything wrong in admitting liability. She thought its compensation for the delay in 
providing the courtesy car was fair and reasonable. 
Miss M replied that she hadnt accepted any compensation. She thought RSA should have 
defended her and asked why the moped rider hadnt slowed down. She said he had driven 
into her whilst her car was stationary. She thought RSA should have agued for a 50/50 split 
liability settlement. Miss M asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that Miss M has been involved in two accidents within a short space of 
time. I can understand that this must be very upsetting for her and her family.
Miss M said she was midway through a three point turn when the speeding moped rider 
drove into her cars door. The rider said Miss M had pulled out in front of him. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Miss M the same as someone else in her position. 
I think RSA is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Miss M to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Miss M has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term 
in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a 
commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
Ive looked at how RSA investigated the claim. Miss M had a dashcam camera, but she was 
unable to download footage from this for RSA to consider. Miss M explained that there was a 
council CCTV camera at the junction near the accident. She said this was a 360 degree 
camera and she thought this would have captured the collision. I can see that RSA 
contacted the council, but it said the camera didnt capture the incident. 
Miss M said a police car had passed her shortly before the accident and dashcam footage 
was available from its camera. She thought this would provide evidence of the mopeds 
speed at the time. The police werent taking action against the rider. But RSA said it would 
ask for the police report. But the police had closed its file without making a full report. 
There were no independent witnesses identified at the time. I can see that Miss M found out 
six months later that a shopkeeper recalled the incident. But the claim had already been 
settled by then. 
RSA was threatened with legal action by the moped rider. In the absence of any further 
evidence, RSA asked for a legal opinion of the likely outcome if the case went to court. This 
thought there was little chance of avoiding 100% liability and recommended that RSA should 
settle the moped riders claim in full. 
So I think RSA did all it could to investigate the claim. It had no independent evidence to 
show that the moped rider had been speeding or that Miss M was stationary at the time. 
RSA already had the moped riders version of events. It wouldnt be able to cross-examine 
him outside a court. 
So it was Miss Ms version of events against the riders. RSA didnt say that it didnt believe 
Miss M. I can see it found her account convincing because of the trouble shed taken to 
provide evidence to support it. But it thought it wouldnt be able to defend the claim if it went 
to court as the greater duty of care was on Miss M as the manoeuvring party. So I think it 
fairly and reasonably settled the claim and held Miss M fully at fault as it was entitled to do 
by the policy terms and conditions. 
Miss M thought RSA should have argued for a split liability settlement. But this was against 
the legal advice it had received. And the result would have still been a fault claim recorded 
against Miss M, so the outcome for her would have been much the same. 
I can see that there was a two day delay in RSA providing a courtesy car for Miss M. It 
offered her £30 compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with 
our published guidance. If Miss M wishes to accept this, I expect RSA to honour this offer. I 
can see that RSA asked for her bank details to make the payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman