DRN-3403366
The complaint
Ms D complains that she was misinformed by Barclays Bank UK PLC about the amount that 
she could borrow when she applied for a joint borrower sole proprietor mortgage. Ms D then 
spent time sourcing a property in a price bracket that she understood she would get a 
mortgage for and engaged a conveyancer only to be told later that she couldnt afford that 
mortgage.
What happened
Ms D applied to Barclays for a joint-borrower, sole-proprietor mortgage. Barclays Bank 
informed her during five telephone conversations, totalling 69 minutes, that based on her 
circumstances at the time, which included the salary of her father (as a joint borrower), they 
would loan her up to £308,000. During the third conversation, Barclays stated that they 
would not offer an Agreement in Principle (AIP), and that the mortgage could not be put in 
place until an offer on a property was accepted. 
As a result of these conversations, Ms D proceeded to place an offer on a flat - the mortgage 
needed would have been £240,000, far less than the £308,000 previously cited by Barclays 
Bank. When Ms Ds offer on the flat was accepted, she contacted Barclays to finalise the 
mortgage, and was told that they would only loan her 49% of the original stated mortgage 
offer - £153,000.  D consequently had to withdraw from the purchase of the flat and had to 
attempt to recoup the £400 already paid to the conveyancer. Barclays upheld Ms Ds 
complaint in part. At that stage it hadnt located the calls with Ms D but felt that its employee 
may have mis-heard Ms D and offered £100 compensation but said it wasnt liable  for any 
subsequent fees or charges and would not offer the mortgage that Ms D wanted. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that that this complaint should be upheld as she felt that 
Barclays had considered her application fairly and, having done so was entitled to decline it 
as it didnt meet its affordability criteria. Ms D disagreed saying in summary that the result of 
her application was completely different when examined by two different members of staff, 
firstly a Moment Banker and secondly a qualified mortgage advisor. As her affordability 
remained the same Ms D believes that the same set of affordability criteria was misapplied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a complaint about an initial mortgage enquiry which developed into a mortgage 
application between 23 February 2021 and 17 March 2021. Ms D had initial discussions with 
a Barclays employee who on an affordability check, also including Ms Ds father as a joint 
borrow but not proprietor, said the maximum she was likely to be able to borrow was 
£308,000. But the employee couldnt issue an AIP as the mortgage was a joint borrower sole 
proprietor mortgage with a term that ran into Mr D;s retirement age and that would be 
outside Barclays policy and so a full application would need to be submitted before an 
affordability decision was made. That would require an offer to be accepted on a property 
and then an appointment with a mortgage adviser. Ms D then made an offer and applied for 
a mortgage of £240,000 but on the full mortgage application, the application didnt meet 
affordability.
I have been able to listen to the available phone calls between Ms D and Barclays. I can 
hear that Ms D was hoping to bid on a property and was utilising the assistance of her 
parents for Barclays affordability calculation. Ms D initial contact was with a Barclays 
employee who gave general advices about affordability and processed the information he 
requested and was given by Ms D. My understanding from listening to the calls was that his 
role was to see what Ms D could afford to bid on before she bid on a property. It would then 
be up to Ms D to make an accepted offer on a property before she had an interview with a 
mortgage adviser and then a decision would be made on whether and what level of 
mortgage she would be able to get.
The proposed application was for a joint borrower sole proprietor mortgage for which an AIP 
wasnt available because such an application was outside policy which I understand to 
mean that the application would have to be considered individually and an automatic AIP 
couldnt be generated. But the affordability was dependent on the income of Ms D and that 
of a parent. Mr Ds income was chosen as he was in employment and would have eventual 
access to two private pensions and the state pension. 
The issue here is that Ms D bid on property following the initial phone calls, but when she 
had the consultation with the mortgage adviser, she was told that Barclays couldnt lend the 
amount that it originally suggested had been possible. Barclays explanation is that in the 
original call Ms D gave her fathers income as £30,000 and the initial figures were based on 
that. But when Ms D sent the payslips through, Mr Ds normal basic salary was £2,133.25 
per month or £25,599 per year. Mr D was also on furlough and there was also a furlough 
deduction on his payslip of £644.10 (I note that this was the sum deducted in February 2021) 
to be taken off his basic wages, so his actual basic wage at that time was £17,869.80 
annually which was the figure used by the mortgage adviser. The mortgage adviser also 
says that its lending policy at that time was to ignore any allowances or other pay on the 
payslip if a borrower was on furlough. This meant that the amount of mortgage Ms D wanted 
and which the original employee thought achievable was unaffordable.
Barclays has given us a reasonable explanation of why it reduced the amount it was able to 
lend Ms D and it seems to have fairly assessed the application within its lending criteria and 
of course its up to Barclays to set that criteria and determine the risk it wishes to accept. But 
within that criteria it appears to have acted fairly. 
The problem is that Ms D started her house search with a different view of what was 
affordable. That emerged from her discission with the initial adviser who was operating on 
the basis that Mr Ds income was £30,000. If I look at the gross pay for the three most recent 
pay slips from Mr D that Ive seen, I calculate the gross pay for the three months at 
£2,193.83 + £2,039.79 + £ 2,124.68 = £6358.30. Thats annually £25,433.20 which would 
suggest that the annual income at that time was less than £30,000. But it also seems that 
Barclays had rules as how it dealt with furlough payments that would have affected the 
calculation. The question is should the original questioning by the Barclays employee gone 
further and identified this issue. Ms D believes it should as it would have identified an issue 
that became a problem later. But I have to recognise that the initial interview wasnt a formal 
advised interview like the two-hour interview that was organised with the mortgage adviser. 
These were preliminary interviews which werent intended to cover everything. The adviser 
was working with global figures and didnt interrogate the composition of Mr Ds salary. As a 
preliminary interview I wouldnt have expected him to do so unless a particular issue - such 
as the implications of Mr D being on furlough - was brought to his attention. The in-depth part is left to the post offer interview with the mortgage adviser. 
My view of this is that throughout the process, which lasted about three weeks, although 
Barclays gave indications of what it might be able to lend, it gave no guarantees of that. In 
fact, it was unable to issue an AIP as the lending was outside policy. The fact it gave no 
guarantee is of significance as I would have difficulty saying that the bank should stand over 
a figure that it isnt guaranteeing. In the end the affordability was less than Ms D wanted and 
the explanation for that appears to have been that the documentation supporting Mr Ds 
income showed that he was on furlough and that his income to be used  for assessment was 
lower than the employee who had done the first interviews had been told.
Ms Ds issue as she says in her letter of 9 March 2022 is that as she was not assigned a 
mortgage adviser initially and the employee who asked the questions didnt enquire whether 
her father was on furlough and didnt mention or account for the fact that shift pay wouldnt  
be considered in the affordability calculation nor ask whether shift pay formed part of her 
fathers income. My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable and I have to consider 
industry practice which is that the preliminary interviews are just that  we wouldnt expect 
an in depth analysis of an applicants income which is left to the  two hour interview when the 
mortgage application is made and considered. Having listened to the calls I realise the 
investment by Miss D and her parents of time and energy in this application and I know the 
outcome was disappointing. But for the reasons set out above I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint.    
  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman