DRN-4487992
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that more 2 life Ltd incorrectly valued their property. They said they 
have spent a lot of money on renovations and believe the property is worth more than the 
valuation indicated. They are unhappy that their application for further borrowing was 
declined because of this.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage with more 2 life on 25 January 2021. The property was 
valued at £2,300,000 on 27 October 2020. 
Mr and Mrs F applied for additional borrowing in early 2022 and a valuation was carried out 
on 17 May 2022.  The property was valued at £2,300,000 but Mr and Mrs F dont agree with 
this as they said they spent just under £200,000 renovating their property over the last few 
years  so they dont understand why the value has remained the same. Their broker 
appealed the valuation and requested another valuation to be carried out by a different 
company  but Mr and Mrs F were told this couldnt happen. But they said they could 
arrange another valuation with the same company if Mr and Mrs F wanted one. So a second 
valuation was carried out in November 2022 which came back at the same value - 
£2,300,000.
Mr and Mrs F said they had other independent valuers assess the value of their property and 
it was valued between £2,500,000 and £2,700,000. Mr and Mrs F would like the valuation to 
be corrected and for the loan to be approved.  
Because the valuation was less than Mr and Mrs F expected it to be, more 2 life wont lend 
them any additional funds so they now cant finish the work to their property. 
More 2 life said Mr and Mrs F applied for further borrowing in 2022 for £107,951 which they 
wanted for home improvements. They said the valuation carried out in November 2022 was 
less than Mr and Mrs F expected it to be  as they estimated the property to be worth 
£2,700,000. As Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the valuation, they sent the valuation to their 
underwriters to review it. 
A query was raised with the surveyor about comments which were made about the 
alterations to the property and the concerns that were raised, but the surveyor responded 
and confirmed that the valuation would not be impacted by this.
More 2 life said that Mr and Mrs F contested the valuation and sent details of comparable 
properties to the surveyor on 21 December 2022 and the valuer said they had reviewed 
these but maintained their original valuation. 
More 2 life said the valuation was carried out for the purpose of the additional borrowing that 
Mr and Mrs F required and it wasnt intended on being a detailed inspection of the property. 
In order to try and resolve the complaint, more 2 life offered to refund the valuation fee that 
Mr and Mrs F had paid  but Mr and Mrs F didnt accept this. 
Mr and Mrs F brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was 
looked at by one of our investigators. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
explained our service wasnt able to say if the valuation was correct or not, and we would 
look at the actions of more 2 life  and he didnt think they had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs F disagreed. They said they do not agree that they have been treated fairly by 
more 2 life and have since found out that they withdrew the offer to pay them back the 
valuation fee which they do not think is good customer service. They are also unhappy that 
more 2 life would not arrange a valuation from a different company when they asked for this 
to happen.
As Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the investigator, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman, so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything, I agree with the outcome that our investigator reached. Ill 
explain why.
As its already been explained, our service will only look at the actions of more 2 life. We are 
not able to determine whether the valuation carried out on Mr and Mrs Fs property is in fact 
correct. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs F believe the valuation of their property should be higher than 
its been valued at, and I know they are disappointed as they are now unable to finish the 
renovation works they have been carrying out at their property. 
As part of their application to borrow additional funds, more 2 life arranged for a valuation to 
be carried out to determine if they could lend Mr and Mrs F the amount they required  
based on the value of the property. 
I can see that the original valuation that was carried out when Mr and Mrs F took the 
mortgage out was £2,300,000. Mr and Mrs F have told us that they spent a considerable 
amount of money doing up their property by carrying out extensive work - so they think the 
value of the property should be in the region of £2,700,000 based on other comparable 
properties in their area. 
The first valuation was carried out in May 2022  when Mr and Mrs F made their application 
to borrow additional funds. The valuation at this point was £2,300,000. Mr and Mrs F said 
they expected the value to have increased due to the work they had completed on the 
property. 
Mr and Mrs F via their broker, appealed this valuation and asked if another one could be 
carried out by a different company, but they were told this couldnt happen. I dont think this 
is unreasonable. More 2 life used an independent Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors 
(RICs) surveyor to value Mr and Mrs Fs property  and this is what they were expected to 
do under the circumstances. 
I think its worth pointing out here that more 2 life are entitled to use the surveyors that they 
did, and they dont have to agree to use a different company to value the property.
A further valuation was carried out in November 2022 which came back with a value of 
£2,300,000 which is the same as it was when Mr and Mrs F took the mortgage out. I 
understand why Mr and Mrs F may believe this is wrong, especially as they have spent a 
significant amount of money renovating the property. But there are many factors including 
how house prices have risen and fallen over the last few years as well as comparing 
properties that are similar to that of Mr and Mrs F - that are also taken into account. But like I 
said, its not for our service to determine if the value should be higher or not. Mr and Mrs F contested this valuation, and I can see from the contact notes provided by 
more 2 life that they sent their underwriters a copy of the valuation report for them to review. 
There were queries raised with the surveyor based on some comments surrounding some of 
the alterations that had happened on the property where they were unsure if some of the 
alterations met the specified requirements. I have seen the response from the surveyor who 
confirmed that even with the comments that were raised, this would not impact the value of 
the property. 
As the valuation wasnt any higher, more 2 life explained to Mr and Mrs Fs broker that the 
application to borrow additional funds had been declined. Mr and Mrs F then sent details of 
comparable properties in December 2022 to more 2 life and after these were reviewed by 
the surveyor  the surveyor said they maintained their original valuation.
I have seen the notes that have been provided and its clear that more 2 life were in 
communication with the surveyors about the value of Mr and Mrs Fs property and details 
had been submitted to them to review  but the surveyor didnt change his mind and gave 
details as to why he thought this  based on the comparable property details that had been 
sent. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs F are unhappy about this, but more 2 life are entitled to use the 
expert professional opinion of the surveyor and are guided by the value given in order to 
determine if Mr and Mrs F were able to borrow any additional funds  which in this situation, 
Mr and Mrs F were not able to.
While Mr and Mrs F believe their property should be worth more, I think the actions carried 
out by more 2 life have been reasonable and I cannot agree that Mr and Mrs F have been 
treated unfairly. 
I note that more 2 life offered to refund the valuation fee to Mr and Mrs F which they 
rejected, and Mr and Mrs F have made a comment that indicates more 2 life have now said 
they wont be honouring this. 
I havent seen anything from the evidence that I have been provided with that suggests that 
more 2 life have withdrawn this offer, but if this is in fact the case  I dont believe they have 
done anything wrong.
The reason for this is because more 2 lifes actions in these circumstances have been 
reasonable. A second valuation was carried out because Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the 
valuation carried out in May 2022. It was their choice to appeal the first valuation so in this 
instance, I wouldnt have recommended for the valuation fee to be refunded. But if more 2 
life are still willing to do this, and if Mr and Mrs F would like the refund  they should let more 
2 life know.
I understand that Mr and Mrs F will be disappointed with my decision, but for the reasons 
already explained, Im satisfied that more 2 life have acted fairly under these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Maria DruryOmbudsman