DRN-1046537
The complaint
Mr H says Chelsea Building Society, now part of Yorkshire Building Society (YBS), mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a mortgage in 1988.
What happened
In 1988 Mr H opened a mortgage with YBS. Around this time, he was sold a PPI policy. The 
policy cost £12.95 a month, which was charged to the mortgage account annually and 
included in Mr H's monthly payment towards the mortgage.
Mr H thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didn't think it should be upheld. Mr H didn't 
agree. The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I've taken this into account in deciding Mr H's case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
Because of the time that's passed, YBS doesn't have any documents from the time of sale 
showing how it sold the policy. This isn't surprising: the mortgage started in 1988 and ended 
in 1993, and I don't expect businesses to keep these records indefinitely. But Mr H has, 
helpfully, provided his records from around this time. And so I've used these, together with 
what Mr H and YBS have been able to tell me, to decide what's most likely to have 
happened.
I've first considered whether Mr H would have known he had the choice to buy the PPI. Mr H 
says he applied for the mortgage through a broker - and he says the broker never told him 
anything about the PPI. He says he didn't realise he'd bought a PPI policy until he checked 
his statements in 2019. He says that as he didn't know he'd bought a PPI policy, he 
then bought a separate health care income plan a couple of years later.
YBS hasn't got copies of the original application form, either for the mortgage or the 
insurance. But it says its sales processes at the time meant that Mr H would have indicated 
on the mortgage application form whether he wanted the PPI, and that it would then either 
have sent Mr H a separate application form, or a letter confirming that PPI would be set up 
on completion of the mortgage.
So I've thought about what's most likely based on the evidence I have seen.
Mr H has sent us mortgage statements. I see these show he was paying for a PPI policy. A 
premium was charged to the account each year the policy was active. The premium is described as "Income protection" on the earlier statements, and as "Disability and 
redundancy insurance" on the later statements. I also see that disability and redundancy 
premiums were listed on the redemption statement when Mr H closed the account in 1993.
For this reason, I'm not persuaded that Mr H didn't know he'd been sold the PPI. I think if he 
hadn't known he'd been sold the PPI, he'd have questioned this when it appeared on his 
statements. So on balance, given the limited information that is available, I think it's most 
likely that Mr H chose to buy the policy because he wanted it - though I'm not surprised, 
given the time that's passed, if he doesn't remember doing that now.
Based on what Mr H and YBS have said, I don't think YBS recommended that Mr H buy the 
PPI. This means YBS didn't have to check whether the policy was right for Mr H. But it did 
have to give Mr H the information he'd need to work out for himself if he wanted it.
It's possible that the information YBS gave Mr H wasn't clear enough. But Mr H says he'd 
only receive his full pay for three months if he was off work sick - and then it would drop to 
half pay. The PPI protected a mortgage, and his home was at risk if he couldn't make the 
regular repayments. And as well as sickness, the policy also covered Mr H if he was 
unemployed for up to a year. So I'm not persuaded that better information would have put 
him off buying the cover.
I've considered the other points Mr H has raised. Mr H is unhappy that we've had to rely on 
assumptions. But as I've already explained, there's very limited documentary evidence to 
show clearly what would have happened at the time of sale - and what Mr H says, on its 
own, doesn't persuade me the PPI was mis-sold. I've also thought about the health care 
income plan Mr H says he took out in 1990. But I've already explained why I'm satisfied that 
Mr H knew he'd bought a PPI policy - and so it was ultimately up to him whether he wanted 
to buy further cover. 
My final decision
I don't uphold Mr H's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman