DRN-3232901
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr R complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the 
claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mrs H and Mr R are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around July 2014, Mrs H and Mr R were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs H and Mr R decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In January 2020 the CMC made a claim on their behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mrs H and Mr R to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £9,431.10 to mislead Mrs H and 
Mr R, as when the interest was added the total cost was actually £18,397.80;
Mrs H and Mr R were promised a tax-free year one benefit of £1,226.52 but were not 
made aware that after making the loan repayments there would be an annual deficit 
of £573.53; and
the system would be self-funded by virtue of the feed in tariff (FIT) payments;
the system would not cost Mrs H and Mr R a penny; and
there would be a ten-year warranty on the inverter, but they have received no such 
guarantee.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mrs H and Mr R and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view because Mrs H and Mr R denied that they 
had ever been sent a copy of the main document on which the adjudicator had relied, the 
quote, which contained details about the predicted system performance and returns. The 
CMC said that there was no evidence that Mrs H and Mr R had signed or seen it.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mrs H and Mr R paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs H and Mr R could claim 
against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs H and 
Mr R and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by the CMC and by Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and the quote for the solar panels, titled Solar 
Performance and Returns. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the 
alleged representations made by P, and whether the quote was ever provided to Mrs H and 
Mr R, or to either of them.
The quote is unsigned, and I cannot rule out the possibility that it might not have been sent 
to Mrs H and Mr R. However, Ive seen evidence that sharing the quote with customers was 
a routine stage in the sales process and I am satisfied that it was followed more often than 
not. In this case, Mr Rs email address was written on the contract, which he and Mrs H had 
both signed, and the same email address appears on the first page of the quote, so if the 
quote was emailed then it would most likely have been emailed to the correct address. On 
the balance of probabilities, I consider it to be more likely than not that P did provide the 
quote to Mrs H and Mr R, and that after five and a half years they have simply forgotten it.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mrs Hs and Mr Rs recollections of the 
sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.Cost of the system
The CMC has said that the cost of the system was documented as £9,431.10. It has said 
that this was done to mislead its clients as this figure did not include any interest associated 
with the loan, so it hid the true cost of the system, £18,397.80.
Im satisfied that the credit agreement provided to Mrs H and Mr R (there is no dispute that 
this was provided to them) makes it clear that the total cost of the system is £18,397.80. It 
clearly sets out that the cash price of the system was £9,431.10, the total amount of credit is 
£8,966.70, and it goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £18,397.80.
As the credit agreement provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment 
due, Im satisfied that the credit agreement made it clear that although the cost of the system 
was £9,431, it would cost Mrs H and Mr R more than this as they had decided to pay for it 
with an interest bearing loan.
FIT payments
Mrs H and Mr R have alleged that they were told that their monthly loan repayments would 
be covered, or self-funded, by the FIT payments. Ive considered whether this document 
supports what they have said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs H and Mr R could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs H and Mr R could expect to receive a 
total FIT income in year one of £557.05.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs H and Mr R could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £356.09 and the combined income and 
savings in year one is shown as £913.14. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together.
Theres a section headed PSP Scheme Repayment Options with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 
months as this is the length of the loan that Mrs H and Mr R entered into with Shawbrook. 
This table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £99.54. For each year of 
the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages 
that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £99.54, to give an 
average difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan 
repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs H and Mr R could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that they were 
told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs H and Mr R that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mrs H and Mr R were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a period of time. 
The System Performance and Returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by the end of year 9 the overall benefits that 
Mrs H and Mr R could expect to receive would have exceeded the cost of the system 
(£9,431), and by the end of year 17 the benefits would have exceeded the total amount 
payable under the loan agreement (£18,397).
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs H and Mr R that the system would pay for 
itself by year 17, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs H and Mr R. The MCS certificate sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,194.88 kWh a year.
I have looked at the FIT statements and can see that the system, on average, has generated 
3,055 kWh. This is only slightly less than estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im satisfied 
that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2004 and 2013 to calculate the 
utility price, and data over the 20 years before the sale to calculate RPI inflation. I have 
looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have been 
lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think explain why Mrs H and Mr R havent 
been receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting from the solar panels. 
Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings 
achieved through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs H and Mr R could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs H and Mr R entered into the 
contract.
Guarantee on the inverter
The contract Mrs H and Mr R signed says that the full terms and conditions are attached. 
Paragraph 15a of these includes the ten-year warranty on the inverter.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs H and 
Mr R to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022. The CMC may reply on their behalf.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman