DRN-2667107
The complaint
Ms F has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited avoided (treated it as if it never existed) 
her motor insurance policy and is seeking reimbursement for its outlay following a claim. She 
wants the avoidance removed and the claim paid.
What happened
Ms F took out a motor insurance policy with Ageas through an online price comparison site. 
When the named driver on the policy was involved in an accident, she tried to claim on her 
policy. 
Ageas declined her claim, avoided her policy and returned the premiums shed already paid. 
When Ms F complained, Ageas said shed answered the question shed been asked about 
the named drivers age and licence date incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a 
careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy and refuse the 
claim. As it had already paid for repairs to Ms Fs and the other drivers car, it asked for 
these to be reimbursed.
Ms F brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld in part. He 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and that it was careless. So he 
thought Ageas had acted correctly in declining the claim. And he thought it should agree a 
repayment plan to recover its outlay from Ms F. 
But he thought Ageas had treated Ms F unfairly by avoiding her policy. He thought it would 
have offered Ms F cover without the named driver on the policy. So he thought it should 
remove records of the avoidance just for Ms F so this didnt affect Ms F in the future. 
Ageas doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
said the policy had been fronted and Ms Fs No Claims Bonus (NCB) was already being 
used on another car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Ageas thinks Ms F failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
stated in her application via a comparison site the named drivers date of birth and length of 
time hed held his driving licence. 
I can see that theres some doubts about who completed the online application. But Ms F 
has repeatedly told Ageas that she did this. And so Ive looked at the questions she was 
asked when she completed the application and I agree she failed to take reasonable care. 
This is because she was asked for the named drivers date of birth and how long hed held 
his licence. And I think these were clear questions asked by Ageas through the comparison 
site Ms F used.
The answers Ms F gave were about three years out. And so I think this means Ms F failed to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
Ageas has provided evidence from its underwriters which shows that if Ms F had not made 
this misrepresentation it wouldnt have provided cover due to the named drivers age. This 
means I am satisfied that Ms Fs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
I also think Ageas reasonably decided that Ms Fs misrepresentation was a careless 
misrepresentation. This is because Ms F had opportunity to correct this error when she was 
sent her policy documents. But I cant see that she told Ageas about the errors.
Ageas said it was entitled to avoid Ms Fs policy in accordance with CIDRA. But I dont think 
this would be fair or reasonable in Ms Fs particular circumstances. This is because if Ms F 
had answered the questions about the named driver correctly, Ageas would still have offered 
her cover with the named driver removed. 
The impact of the avoidance is that Ms F will have increased premiums in the future. So to 
put things right for Ms F, I think Ageas should reinstate the policy, on revised terms if 
needed, taking into account the correct NCB discount, and with the named driver removed. 
Or, if this isnt possible, it should remove the avoidance marker for Ms F only. 
But I think that the avoidance of the policy for the named driver was fair and reasonable. 
And, as this means that  in effect  the policy never existed for him, I agree that Ageas 
does not have to deal with the claim following the accident when he was driving and it can 
recover its outlay from Ms F.
Ms F was concerned that the repair costs were too high. Ive looked at these and dont have 
any evidence that they were inflated. So I think Ageas outlay for the repairs to the two cars 
was reasonable. And I think Ageas should agree a repayment plan to recover this outlay 
from Ms F. 
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Ageas to rely on it to decline Ms Fs claim produces the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint. 
Putting things right
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to reinstate the policy with the named driver removed and 
retrospectively apply the revised terms it would have offered to Ms F only. Or, if this isnt 
possible, then Ageas should remove the avoidance marker for Ms F only. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Ageas Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman