DRN-4476293
Complaint
Mr L complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with him. Hes said that it was unaffordable and proper 
affordability checks werent carried out. 
Background
In October 2020, Moneybarn provided Mr L with finance for a used car. The purchase price 
of the vehicle was £12,299.00. Mr L paid a deposit of £4,099.00 and took out a conditional 
sale agreement with Moneybarn for the remaining £8,200.00. The loan had interest and 
charges of £6,240.28 and a 48-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£14,440.28 (not including Mr Ls deposit) was due to be repaid in 47 monthly instalments of 
£307.24.
Mr L complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that 
the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr Ls complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Moneybarn 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr L unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ls 
complaint should be upheld. Mr L disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ls complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ls complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr L before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after Mr L provided details of his monthly 
income and it also carried out credit searches on Mr L, which had shown Mr L had previously 
defaulted on credit accounts with the most recent of these being 10 months prior to this 
application. 
The credit search also showed that Mr L had no county court judgments (CCJ) recorded 
against him. In Moneybarns view, notwithstanding Mr Ls previous difficulties, when the 
amount he already owed plus a reasonable amount for Mr Ls living expenses were 
deducted from his monthly income the monthly payments for this agreement were still 
affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr L says his existing commitments meant that these payments were 
unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr L and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Im not persuaded that the checks Moneybarn carried out 
did go far enough. For example, Im not persuaded that it was reasonable to rely on an 
estimate of Mr Ls living costs given what Moneybarn saw on its credit checks. And I think 
that this ought to have led Moneybarn to do more to verify Mr Ls actual regular living costs. 
That said, I dont think that obtaining further information on Mr Ls actual living costs would 
have made a difference to Moneybarns decision to lend in this instance. 
I say this because the information Mr L has provided about his finances at the time appears 
to show that when his visible committed regular living expenses and existing credit 
commitments were deducted from his monthly income, he did have the funds, at the time at 
least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
In reaching this agreement Ive considered that the real reason for Mr Ls inability to make 
his payments to this agreement wasnt due to his existing credit commitments or his living 
expenses. And that this is readily apparent when Mr Ls bank statements are considered. Im 
sorry to hear of Mr Ls difficulties and that making his payments were difficult as a result of 
this. However, the question I need to determine is whether Moneybarn knew or ought to 
have known about this - not just whether this was the case. 
And to decide this question, I need to keep in mind what Moneybarn needed to do in order to 
answer the questions its initial checks left unanswered. In other words, Moneybarn needed 
to work out what Mr Ls actual regular living expenses were (bearing in mind his credit 
commitments were already validated by the credit search carried out). In these 
circumstances, it isnt the case that a full financial review needed to be carried out. 
Checking bank statements wasnt the only way for Moneybarn to have found out more about 
Mr Ls actual living costs. This is extremely important for me to emphasise here because it 
doesnt automatically follow that bank statements will be reviewed when a lenders checks 
arent sufficient. 
For example, a lender could instead obtain copies of bills or other evidence of payment etc  
I dont think that proportionate checks would have extended into obtaining the bank 
statements Mr L has now provided us with. I think that this is particularly the case given this 
was a first agreement and Mr L was being provided with a car rather than cash.
  
So I dont think that Moneybarn could reasonably be expected to have known about the 
nature and extent of Mr Ls additional spending. And, in these circumstances, I dont think 
that it is fair and reasonable for these to now be taken into account.  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while Im not persuaded that 
Moneybarns checks before entering into this conditional sale agreement with Mr L did go far 
enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have 
stopped Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with him. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr L. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr L. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint, I would remind Moneybarn of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration (bearing in mind what it is now aware of) in the 
event that it intends to collect the remaining payments on the agreement and Mr L is 
experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman