DRN-2705081
The complaint
Mr S complains that he didnt earn interest on his account with Santander UK Plc 
(Santander).
What happened
Mr S had several accounts with Santander. In July 2018 he opened a second 123 account in 
order to earn credit interest. In January 2020, he realised that no interest had been earned.
Mr S complained, He said that when he visited the branch of Santander, he discussed with 
the staff member the rules for getting credit interest  which were to have active two direct 
debits and pay in at least £500 per month. He asked about moving some direct debits from 
his other accounts and assumed Santander would do this for him. He opted to get paperless 
statements  and didnt look at the online statements, so he didnt realise he wasnt getting 
interest for a long time  until January 2020. He believes that Santander shouldve contacted 
him to let him know he wasnt getting any interest on the account.
Santander said they couldnt be certain what was discussed in the branch when the account 
was opened. But - it wouldnt have been possible to simply move direct debits between 
accounts. But he couldve seen from his statements what was happening. And the terms and 
conditions were also clear. They offered Mr S £30 as a gesture of goodwill, which he 
rejected.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said he couldnt be certain what 
was said in the branch. It wasnt up to Santander to contact Mr S about his account  it was 
up to him to manage it, and check he was meeting the requirements to get credit interest. 
Mr S asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate where Mr S is coming from  he opened a 123 account to get interest, but 
because there werent at least two direct debits set up on the account, he didnt get any. And 
he had fairly large balances, so missed out on a lot of interest. 
I looked at the terms and conditions of the 123 account. They are clear  customers must 
have at least two active direct debits on the account and pay in at least £500 per month. Mr 
S isnt disputing these terms.
Ive looked at the monthly statements provided to Mr S on his 123 account in question. They 
are clear  they show a large red box on the front page which says 123 Current Account 
earnings. (cashback and interest) . This month £0.00. Since opening £0.00. The 
statement also says interest on your credit balance £0.00. Ensure you switch all eligible 
direct debits to your 123 Current Account. To receive cashback and interest you must pay in 
at least £500 a month and have a minimum of two active direct debits.. These were 
available for Mr S to view every month. I accept that he says he didnt download them  but 
it was really his responsibility to do that to see what was happening. I dont think it was up to 
Santanders to proactively let Mr S know he wasnt receiving interest  they advised him this 
was the case on his monthly statement.
I cant say what was said in the branch, as I wasnt there. But Santander told us that it wasnt 
possible to simply switch direct debits between accounts. Mr S would have had to contact 
the beneficiary of the direct debt  and ask them to redirect the debt to a different account. 
So, it doesnt seem likely that the staff member wouldve said direct debits could be switched 
 as there wasnt a process to do that. 
So, while its unfortunate that Mr S didnt receive credit interest in his balances, I cant in all 
fairness say that Santander were at fault here. And I wont be asking them to do anymore.
Santander offered Mr S a goodwill payment of £30 which he rejected. But if he still wishes to 
receive this, he should get in touch with Santander to ask for it to be paid to him.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman