DRN-4218725
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Metro Bank PLC (Metro) hasnt reimbursed him after he unwittingly 
transferred money to a fraudster as part of an investment scam.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in June 2023 to explain why I thought Mr Ss complaint should 
be partially upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. This is 
an extract from that provisional decision:
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into too much 
detail here. However, in summary, Mr S has been the victim of a scam. He was tricked into 
sending £17,821.50 to a fraudster in the belief that he was being assisted in trading by a 
legitimate trading firm.
Mr S initially made a small payment to the fraudsters to see how his investment would turn 
out. And he was later able to withdraw this amount in full, plus some returns. Encouraged by 
this, Mr S then went on to make another four payments of £2,500 by way of bank transfer to 
a cryptocurrency exchange account held in his own name, before moving the funds on to the 
fraudsters account.
Mr S then made a final three payments, around a month later, for £2,500, £2,400 and £3,000 
thinking he was paying taxes in order to release the investment returns he had earnt on the 
amounts above. Mr S made these final three payments using his card.
We have been provided with conflicting information as to whether Mr S made the majority of 
these payments himself or whether the fraudsters made the payments on his behalf using 
remote access software. Mr Ss representatives have said the payments were made by the 
fraudsters, not Mr S. But I dont agree.
This service has been provided with a transcript of a conversation that took place between 
Mr S and the fraudsters at the time the scam was taking place. In this transcript, Mr S clearly 
says it is him that is initiating and making the payments. With this in mind, Im satisfied that 
Mr S made the payments himself. However, he now feels that Metro shouldve identified the 
payments he was making as suspicious and discussed them with him before it allowed them 
to leave his account. Mr S believes that had Metro done so, the scam wouldve come to light, 
and he wouldnt have gone ahead with the payments.
Metro doesnt agree that it couldve done anything more than it did to protect Mr S from the 
scam. It said the payments now in question here were being made to a genuine 
cryptocurrency exchange account held in Mr Ss own name and so there wasnt anything 
suspicious about the payments at the time they were being processed.
Metro also pointed out that Mr Ss financial loss stemmed from Mr Ss cryptocurrency 
exchange account - as it was from this account that the money was moved on to the 
fraudsters, not his Metro account. For this reason, Metro didnt think it should be held liable 
for Mr Ss loss now and it said Mr S should speak to the third-party cryptocurrency exchange 
provider instead.
Mr S disagreed with what Metro said and so he brought his complaint to this service and one 
of our investigators looked into things.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She didnt agree with Metro that the 
payments werent suspicious because they were being made to a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange. She said it was common practice for scams to involve transfers to cryptocurrency 
wallets before being transferred to a fraudsters account and that Metro should have been 
aware of this at the time. She said the pattern of transactions had started to look suspicious 
from the second bank transfer onwards and that therefore, Metro had missed an opportunity 
to step in and prevent the scam from continuing. However, she also felt that Mr S should 
also bear some responsibility for his losses alongside Metro. So, she recommended Metro 
refund half of the final three banks transfers and half of the card payments too, from the 
second card payment onwards.
Mr S agreed with our investigators findings, but Metro did not. It reiterated that Mr S loss did 
not stem from his Metro account.
As an agreement was not reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
My intention is to partially uphold this complaint but my findings, and the redress Im minded 
to recommend, differs to that recommended by our investigator. Ill explain why in more 
detail below:
The starting position in cases like this is that Mr S is presumed liable for the payments that 
left his account in the first instance. Thats because, as per the Payment Service Regulations 
2017, he authorised them. However, that isnt the end of the story and Metro has 
responsibilities beyond simply executing payment instructions it receives.
Does Metro bear any responsibility for Mr Ss loss?
Its well-established (through industry regulation, best practice standards, and this services 
approach to scam complaints) that Metro ought to have had systems and processes in place 
for identifying payments at risk to fraud. That includes monitoring accounts for suspicious 
and unusual activity. This services approach to cryptocurrency scams has also been well- 
established for some time now, and Metro ought to be aware of this.
Cryptocurrency scams have been growing in prevalence for several years, with the FCA 
specifically providing commentary on them as early as June 2018, including publications on 
its website and a Dear CEO letter. Im therefore satisfied that Metro ought to have been 
aware of, and on the lookout for, cryptocurrency scams at the time Mr S fell victim to this particular scam and this includes instances where a customer make payments which firstly 
go to a cryptocurrency wallet in their own name. That the payments went to Mr Ss own 
cryptocurrency wallet initially doesnt remove Metros obligations to protect him from fraud 
and financial harm. And Im satisfied that the loss to him, in sending the money to a 
cryptocurrency wallet before moving it on to a fraudster, was both reasonably foreseeable 
and preventable in this particular case.
The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code doesnt apply in this case because of 
the specific provisions of the Code. Those provisions dont, however, remove Metros 
account monitoring and fraud prevention responsibilities. And so, Im persuaded that Metro 
might be considered to bear responsibility for Mr Ss loss, if it is evidenced it didnt act as it 
ought to have done when the payments were being made. And Im satisfied that by the third 
transfer of £2,500, the activity on the account had started to look suspicious.
This was the third payment, for the same amount, that Mr S had made on the same day and 
by this point he had transferred £7,500  significantly more than he had spent on any given 
day in the preceding months. And so, Im satisfied that the payments made as part of the 
scam started to become unusual at this point  rather than at the point of the second 
transaction as our investigator had previously suggested.
Im also satisfied that intervention from Metro at this point would have made a difference 
here. Theres nothing to suggest Mr S would have lied about the purpose of the payments he 
was making or how he came upon the investment opportunity. And in hearing what Mr S had 
to say, Metro ought to have been concerned, given that many of the hallmarks of a scam 
were present. Metro ought then to have highlighted the scam risk to Mr S and attempted to 
dissuade him from proceeding, offering strong warnings and explaining the features of such 
scams in detail.
Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Mr S wouldnt have listened to the bank and so Im 
satisfied that from this point onwards Metro couldve prevented Mr S from making any further 
payments. And so, Im satisfied Metro bears responsibility for Mr Ss losses from the third 
payment of £2,500 onwards. And this includes all of the card payments made thereafter.
Should Mr S also bear some responsibility for his loss?
Ive then thought about whether Mr S should also bear some responsibility for his loss. Our 
investigator felt Mr S ought to have been concerned about what he was being told at the 
outset of the scam, especially concerning the proposed returns on his investment. And 
having reviewed all of the evidence available to me, I agree. I think Mr S was concerned but 
he continued to make payments regardless and in doing so, he failed to mitigate his own 
losses.
Mr S doesnt appear to have carried out any independent checks on the scammer or the firm 
the scammer claimed to work for. There were no steps taken to verify her or the firms 
legitimacy. There appears to have been no exchanging of terms and conditions, or a 
contract/agreement between Mr S and the investment firm either. And whilst Mr S has 
explained he provided some ID documents, this doesnt meet the reasonable expectations of 
how an investment firm might operate.
I also find the rate of return Mr S was promised too good to be true from the outset. Mr S had 
been told that he could expect 60% - 85% return each month. I dont find that can be fairly 
and reasonably described as realistic or believable. And Im satisfied that when presented 
with such returns, Mr S was suspicious too. Having reviewed the messages shared between 
Mr S and the scammer, I can see that Mr S initially declined to make any payments as he had been given conflicting information about the expected rate of return. Then, when the 
scammer tells Mr S that he can expect to receive 60% - 85% each month, he himself points 
out that this is unrealistic. He also stresses to the scammer that he is going against his gut 
instinct when making the payments. This suggests to me that Mr S was suspicious about 
what he had been told at the time, but he continued to make the payments when he should 
have been more cautious.
I understand that Mr S had previously invested a small amount and had been able to 
withdraw some profits. But I dont find that this outweighs the elements Ive already 
described. Im satisfied Mr S ought to have been concerned and been more cautious from 
the outset. With this in mind, I find the 50% reduction in award recommended by the 
investigator ought to be applied from payment three and be applicable to all of the remaining 
payments that followed.
Interest award
Our investigator recommended that Metro pay Mr S 8% simple interest on each payment 
from the date the payment left the account until the date of settlement in order to 
compensate Mr S for the amount of time he had been out of pocket. However, Im not 
currently persuaded that this is fair.
Having reviewed Mr Ss account statements, I can see that this money was transferred in 
from another account held by Mr S. Mr S has told us that this is another account held in his 
name that he uses as a savings account and the applicable interest rate for this account is 
1.5%. As there doesnt appear to have been any plans to use this money elsewhere, it would 
seem fair that this is the rate of interest that should be applied here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach the same overall conclusions as I reached in my 
provisional decision.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision to say he wished to accept my findings. Metro did 
not respond or provide any further submissions. As Neither Mr S nor Metro has provided any 
new evidence or submissions in response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached therein. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr S, Metro Bank PLC should:  
Refund 50% of each payment made as part of the scam from the third transfer 
onwards
Pay interest on the above amounts at Mr Ss current account rate of 1.5%, calculated 
from the date each payment was made to the date of settlement.My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman