DRN-2531314
The complaint
Mrs B says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) accepted her application for a fixed 
sum loan irresponsibly. Shes said it didnt offer protection to her at a time when she didnt 
have the mental capacity to make financial decisions due to a mental health condition. Shes 
said whilst it may not have known that at the time, its not treated her fairly  and has 
discriminated against her  by not accepting this was the case now.
Mrs Bs complaint has been brought to us by a representative but I will only refer to her.  
What happened
Mrs B took out a loan in a branch of Nationwide in October 2017. The loan was for 
£18,962.99 to be repaid over a term of 84 months at around £285 per month. Mrs B has said 
she used most of this loan to pay off existing debts including a loan she held with her 
husband at the time (of around £12,000). But the remainder of the loan  around £1,300  
was used towards her bills and a shopping spree caused by her mental health condition.
At the time of the application, Mrs Bs told us her behaviour was severely affected by a 
change in her mental health. Shes said this caused her to act impulsively and spend money 
on things she couldnt afford and didnt need. And the loan enabled her to do this. She didnt 
understand what she was doing and lacked the ability to make decisions. Shortly after she 
refinanced her existing joint loan with this loan in her name only, her marriage broke down. 
And she was admitted to hospital under Section 2 of the Mental Health Act (1983).
Mrs Bs given us letters from her doctors explaining shed been unwell for some time  
including when she applied for the loan. They reiterated Mrs B lacked capacity to know what 
she was doing. And shes given us information from her family explaining she behaved 
erratically and was sometimes emotional but at other times seemed her usual self.
Mrs Bs told us at the time of the application, shed been medically suspended from work and 
she only returned again on a part-time basis around 18 months later. Normally, her wages 
depended on commission and during that time, she wasnt earning any. Mrs Bs explained 
her and her husbands outgoings were together around the same amount as their income.
Nationwide initially said the sale of the loan was non-advised and it was only made aware of 
Mrs Bs mental health condition in February 2018. Later it told me the first time it was made 
aware of Mrs Bs circumstances was in June 2018 and it signposted her to debt advice 
charities. It thinks her actions show she understood the consequences of non-payment  
shes been maintaining payments and she used the borrowing to pay off other debts.
Nationwide has told me it relied on a credit bureau service (CBS) to assess Mrs Bs 
affordability of the loan. This took into account her likely income (of at least £2268 per 
month) and assumptions about her outgoings. It thought the loan was affordable and it had 
met its regulatory requirements. Mrs Bs said her brothers been repaying the loan for her.
As things hadnt been resolved, Mrs B contacted our service. She wanted Nationwide to 
reinstate the original joint loan she had with her husband rather than continuing as things 
were  with her taking on the entire financial burden. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He thought Mrs B had benefitted from the loan as shed consolidated other 
borrowing which most likely had higher interest rates. So he thought restructuring the loan 
without interest would put her in a better position than she wouldve been in if the loan hadnt 
been provided. And he said he couldnt reinstate the previous joint loan. As Mrs B didnt 
agree with our investigator, the case was passed to me to decide. 
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in December 2020. I didnt think Nationwide shouldve known 
about Mrs Bs mental health condition or that it shouldve declined her loan application on 
that basis. But I did think the complaint should be upheld in summary because:
Mrs Bs loan was for a significant amount to be repaid over a long period of time. And 
although she was taking it out to repay an existing debt, she was jointly liable for that 
debt with her husband but she alone was liable for repaying this new loan. 
To verify Mrs Bs income and expenditure, Nationwide relied on a CBS which accessed 
her financial information from different sources. It didnt ask for further evidence from her.
Mrs Bs told us, at the time she took out the loan, she wasnt working or earning 
commission, her household outgoings were the same as the income. And she had 
several other debts and agreed overdrafts.
I didnt think Nationwide couldve seen all of Mrs Bs income and expenditure. On the 
statements Mrs B gave us, her income was lower than the amount on her loan 
application. And her actual outgoings on were higher than Nationwides assumptions.
If Nationwide had completed more thorough checks I thought it wouldve seen Mrs B was 
applying for a significant level of borrowing when she already held a number of debts, 
her earnings were performance based and she wasnt employed in her usual capacity. 
I thought Nationwide shouldve asked Mrs B for evidence of her income and outgoings 
instead of only relying on the information provided by the CBS. And if it had, I wasnt 
satisfied it wouldve found the loan was sustainably affordable. 
To put things right, in summary, I thought Nationwide should remove all interest and charges 
applied since the start of the loan; remove any adverse information added to her credit file; 
and pay her £300 as compensation. Whilst I accepted Mrs B had used the loan to repay 
other borrowing which likely had higher rates of interest, much of that lending was held 
jointly with her husband and this loan was taken out in her sole name. So I didnt think this 
would put her in a significantly better position than she otherwise wouldve been in.
I asked both parties to make any comments before I reached a final decision. Mrs B didnt 
have any further comments. Nationwide disagreed with my findings. In summary, it said:
Its affordability checks were appropriate and in line with its responsibility under the FCAs 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). It ensured the statement of income from Mrs B 
was verified independently by using the CBS which is general industry practice. 
The CBS check showed Mrs Bs income was higher than that declared by her. And the 
confidence level of the check showed it was both accurate and recent.  The statements we have which show higher outgoings are for a joint account. The 
affordability calculations looked at Mrs Bs expenses only. So its estimations of how 
much Mrs B contributed were higher than she actually wouldve been paying. 
In affordability assessments, Nationwide balances the information provided by the 
applicant against different sources. It wouldnt look in detail at transactional data on 
current accounts or perform underwriting style assessments as this would cause 
complications, be time consuming and might not show everything yet.
Mrs Bs existing debts were considered during the application so further checks wouldnt 
have revealed anything. The only exception is arrears which werent on the credit file yet. 
The affordability calculation was based on Mrs B keeping her existing debt. And just 
because she had other lending didnt mean she couldnt get more credit. 
Nationwide took normal steps to assist Mrs B when she had difficulty making her 
repayments. Shes been given payment holidays and the loan was recently rewritten so 
the term is longer but the monthly repayments have decreased.
Nationwide isnt able to remove future interest without it showing on Mrs Bs credit file as 
an arrangement. And it thinks any arrangement should be reported as she wont be 
repaying the amount originally agreed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully again at all of the comments made by Nationwide and having regard to 
relevant law, regulations and good practice. And I think this complaint should be upheld. 
Nationwide thinks it carried out sufficient affordability checks inline with standard industry 
practice. Its also said it would be impractical to, for example, look at statements or get 
further evidence on every application received. But whilst I understand its position and agree 
it wouldnt be possible to carry out more checks on every application, it is required to carry 
out proportionate checks based on the individual circumstances of each application. And I 
dont think its done enough in this case. When determining whether to approve Mrs Bs 
application, I would expect Nationwide to have carried out checks which focussed on and 
were proportionate to her circumstances rather than applying a standard approach. 
Mrs B was applying for a substantial amount of borrowing  in total she wouldve needed to 
repay almost £24,000 over seven years. And her monthly repayments were around £285. 
She already had a significant amount of borrowing which Nationwides check revealed to 
total around £36,000 and she held overdrafts which were regularly at their limits. Mrs B also 
had an outstanding mortgage of around £157,000 and she has two dependants. Considering 
her individual circumstances, Im not persuaded Nationwides usual checks using CBS data 
were enough. Instead I think the assessment needed to be more detailed and required 
further verification for it to be fair, reasonable and proportionate. 
 Had Nationwide carried out further checks, I think it wouldve seen Mrs Bs income wasnt 
as shed declared and she had more debt than is shown on the CBS data its given me. For 
example, her account statements show her arranged overdraft limits of £2,500 and £200 
were often reached which she alone couldve been liable to repay at any time. But the CBS 
check shows a much lower outstanding amount.Nationwide has said it took a cautious approach in that it overestimated Mrs Bs expenses 
and underestimated her income. But the income shown on the CBS check was likely inflated 
by, for example, transfers between Mrs Bs accounts which I can see happened regularly. 
Mrs Bs told us her usual income was performance based (so sometimes could be higher 
and sometimes could be lower) and had been affected by her being medically suspended at 
the time of the application. So I dont think it was enough to just take the lower amount Mrs B 
declared as her income because the CBS showed she mightve actually been earning more. 
And I think Nationwide needed to do more to verify this information.
In any event, even if I did think the checks carried out by Nationwide were proportionate and 
sufficient in Mrs Bs circumstances, Im not satisfied the lending decision made by 
Nationwide was appropriate. I say this because I think it increased Mrs Bs overall borrowing 
to a level that wasnt sustainable. Nationwides internal data shows at the time, her monthly 
disposable income was around £367. And as explained, this didnt actually take all of her 
borrowing into account. As the monthly payment for the loan was around £283, by 
Nationwides calculations, this wouldve left her with around £84 per month. Based on this, 
Im not satisfied she wouldve been able to sustainably repay the loan shed applied for 
whilst being able to meet her other commitments and without having to borrow further.
Nationwide thinks the removal of future interest should be shown on Mrs Bs credit file as an 
arrangement to pay. But I dont agree. Mrs B shouldnt have given this borrowing by 
Nationwide. If this hadnt happened, she wouldnt have been liable to pay the interest or any 
other charges. So directing Nationwide to remove this isnt the same as it agreeing an 
arrangement to pay  and that wouldnt be an accurate reflection of whats happened. But I 
do think the actual amount borrowed should still be reflected on her credit file. 
To put things right in this case, I direct Nationwide to remove all the interest and any charges 
applied since the start of the loan so that a new balance remains which is only made up of 
the amount lent to Mrs B. If this means shes has already paid too much towards the loan, 
any overpayments should be refunded plus 8% simple interest*. If there has been any 
adverse information added to her credit file, Nationwide should remove this. If there is 
anything left to pay towards the loan, Nationwide and Mrs B should arrange a payment plan 
to repay the outstanding balance at a rate thats affordable to her. Nationwide should also 
pay Mrs B £300 to compensate her for the significant stress and worry shes been through 
over a number of years and during an already difficult time for her personally. 
*If Nationwide considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give her a 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and direct Nationwide Building 
Society to put things right by doing what Ive said above. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 
1 March 2021. 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman