DRN-4138901
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy his car insurance policy was cancelled by Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited (Advantage).
What happened
Mr C purchased a car insurance policy with Advantage. Shortly after purchase, Advantage 
emailed Mr C to request a copy of his driving licence details and provided an email address 
for the information to be sent to. Advantage also said that if the information wasnt provided 
by the deadline given, the policy would be cancelled.
However, Mr C sent the requested information to a different email address. As Advantage 
didnt receive the information to the email address they gave by the deadline, they cancelled 
the policy.
Mr C contacted Advantage and they reinstated the policy. They also paid £20 compensation 
and confirmed that if anything were to have happened, because the policy had been 
reinstated, then any claims would have been covered.
Mr C wants a higher level of compensation, including the cost of a train ticket when he was 
unable to drive his car, and a refund of premiums. As Advantage didnt agree, Mr C 
approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said Mr C didnt 
provide the information requested to the correct email address, so Advantage hadnt acted 
unfairly by cancelling his policy. And because he didnt think theyd acted unfairly, he didnt 
recommend any further compensation be paid.
The investigator also said the policy had been reinstated, so any claims wouldve been 
covered, so he also didnt recommend any refund of policy premiums be given.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
After purchasing the policy, Advantage sent Mr C an email requesting he provide his driving 
licence details by a set deadline. Within this, an email address to send the information to 
was provided. However, Mr C didnt send the information to that email address, instead he 
replied to the email he received which was a similar, but different, email address.
Advantage has provided a copy of an auto-response which Mr C should have received from 
the email address he sent information to, which says it isnt monitored, and gave other ways 
to contact Advantage. I recognise Mr C says he didnt receive this, but I cant determine with 
any certainty why this would be. But the fact remains that Mr C had emailed a different email 
address to the one he was asked to.
Advantage has explained that if the information was sent to the correct email address they 
provided, this would have been added to the policy immediately and reviewed by their 
validation team. But because the information was sent to an unmonitored email address, this 
meant as far as Advantage was aware, they hadnt received the information by the deadline 
by the method requested, so they cancelled the policy.
I dont think Advantage acted unfairly here. Its not disputed that Mr C didnt email the email 
address he was given. So, I dont think Advantage acted unfairly by cancelling the policy 
when they werent aware the information had been provided because it was sent to the 
incorrect email address.
When the policy was cancelled, Mr C contacted Advantage and the policy was reinstated. 
Therefore, there wasnt any gap in cover and the original policy start and end dates 
remained the same. And as cover has effectively always been in place, Mr C couldve made 
a claim if anything had happened. So, Im not going to direct Advantage to refund any 
premiums.
In any event, I dont think Advantage acted unfairly by cancelling the policy in the first place, 
so Im also not going to direct them to reimburse the train ticket cost Mr C incurred when he 
couldnt drive his car that day. Advantage also paid £20 compensation, and as I dont think 
they acted unreasonably, Im not going to direct them to increase this either.
Mr C has also said he doesnt think Advantage should use similar email addresses which go 
to both monitored and unmonitored inboxes, and he thinks these should be changed so it 
doesnt happen to anyone else. 
However, my role isnt to decide Advantages wider operating procedures, thats the role of 
the Financial Conduct Authority as the regulator. But what I would say on this is that I think 
the communication sent to Mr C to request information, which included the email address to 
send it to, was clear.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman