DRN-1804603
 
The complaint
Mr I complains about how has Hiscox Insurance Company Limited has handled a claim he 
made on his home insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2018, there was a fire at Mr Is property. Mr I and his estranged wife made a 
claim on their home insurance policy. Hiscox accepted the claim. It agreed that settlement 
payments would be paid into Mr I and his wifes joint bank account.
Payments were initially made into the joint account. But in late November 2018, Mr Is 
estranged wife asked Hiscox to make future settlement payments into her sole account. 
Hiscox accepted this instruction and payments were made into Mrs Is account instead.
In April 2019, Mr I got in touch with Hiscox because he hadnt received any payments from 
Hiscox. It told him that it had accepted his wifes instruction to have the claim payments 
made into her sole account. Mr I was unhappy with Hiscoxs actions and he asked us to look 
into his complaint.
Hiscox acknowledged it had made a mistake. It offered to pay Mr I half of the money he was 
owed  a sum of £2795 and said it would deduct this from the payments it made to his wife. 
It agreed that all future payments would be made to the joint account unless it was jointly 
instructed otherwise.
Mr I remained unhappy with Hiscoxs position. He said hed incurred legal fees because of 
Hiscoxs handling of his claim. He told us this matter had had a serious impact on his health. 
So he felt he should be compensated for his distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator thought it had been fair for Hiscox to pay Mr I the £2795 that it had paid to 
his estranged wife. But he didnt think itd recognised the distress and inconvenience its 
actions had caused Mr I. So he recommended Hiscox pay Mr I £200 for his trouble and 
upset.
Hiscox accepted the investigators findings. Mr I didnt. He didnt think the compensation the 
investigator had recommended was enough to recognise his distress and inconvenience. He 
reiterated that hed incurred legal fees through dealing with this issue. He said his estranged 
wife hadnt accepted Hiscoxs position. He also said he hadnt been able to recover his 
losses or received his share of the insurance monies. He was hoping for an enforcement or 
a direction.
Mr Is complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that Hiscox must pay Mr I £200 as compensation for its actions. Ill explain why.
I need to make it clear my decision will only consider whether Hiscox has done enough to 
put right its error in making claims payments to Mr Is estranged-wifes account. 
Theres no dispute that Hiscox agreed with both Mr I and his estranged wife that claim 
payments would be made into a joint account they both had access to. It also doesnt 
dispute that it then accepted an instruction from Mr Is estranged wife to change the account 
the monies were paid into, without Mr Is authority or agreement. So its clear Hiscox didnt 
follow the original agreement itd made with Mr I and his estranged wife.
Mr I only learned about what had happened in April 2019 and made a complaint to us. It took 
six months for Hiscox to then refund Mr I the £2975 that shouldve been paid to him. I think it 
was appropriate for Hiscox to pay Mr I the money it agreed he was entitled to under the 
policy, although I think it shouldve taken this action somewhat sooner. Ive seen an email 
from Mr I acknowledging the receipt of the CHAPS payment, so Im satisfied Hiscox did 
make this payment to him. 
Having considered the evidence, I thought it would be fair for Hiscox to also pay interest  on 
the amount of £2975 to recognise the period where he wasn't able to access it. This is at an 
annual rate of 8% simple per year. Hiscox has agreed to make this interest payment if Mr I 
accepts my decision.
Hiscox also agreed that any future payments would be made to the joint account only, 
unless it received instructions otherwise from both Mr I and his estranged wife. Given Mr I 
and his wife are going through divorce proceedings, I think this was a sensible course of 
action for it to take going forward.
Mr I says hes incurred legal fees as a result of this issue. Hiscox has agreed to consider any 
legal fees that directly relate to this matter if Mr I provides it with evidence of those costs. I 
think this is a reasonable response and its open to Mr I to submit such evidence to Hiscox 
for it to review.
I think Hiscox has now taken reasonable steps to put right its error in not following the 
original agreement as to where claims payments should be made. But like the investigator, I 
think it should also pay Mr I compensation for the trouble and upset its actions have caused 
him. Hes told us he was left out of pocket and suffered from anxiety and depression. I dont 
doubt that this situation added to Mr Is distress and inconvenience when he was already 
going through a difficult time. I also think Hiscox shouldve refunded Mr I the claim monies 
earlier than it did. So I think £200 is fair compensation to recognise the impact this situation 
had on Mr I. Im pleased Hiscox agreed to this recommendation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Is complaint.
I direct Hiscox Insurance Company Limited to:
pay Mr I £200 for his trouble and upset.
pay Mr I interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date it paid his share of the 
insurance payments into his estranged wifes account until the date it sent the 
CHAPS payment to Mr I for this amount.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Hiscox Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr I accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
*If Hiscox Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr I how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr I a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman