DRN-2348884
The complaint
Mr R complains that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AAIS) increased 
his breakdown cover premium without telling him. 
What happened
Mr R held breakdown membership cover with AAIS and paid a monthly premium. His policy 
renewed, however Mr R says he wasnt made aware that the premiums were due to 
increase until he saw the payment had doubled on his bank statement in September 2020.
  
AAIS explained that a renewal document was issued in May 2020, and they couldnt see any 
record of it being undelivered. But Mr R feels this should have been sent by email, or by 
recorded delivery. He feels that AAIS sent the document in the post to take advantage of 
customers during a difficult time.
 
In response to Mr Rs complaint AAIS refunded the monthly payments taken in July and 
August and his membership was cancelled.
 
Our investigator was of the opinion that AAIS had acted fairly. She explained they had acted 
in line with their terms and conditions and couldnt hold them responsible for the document 
not reaching Mr R. 
Mr R didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the investigator for the same reasons. Ill explain 
why.
 
AAIS are the broker of the policy meaning theyre only responsible for its administration. 
Because of this, I cant look at the performance of the contract itself, including the amount 
charged.
AAISs membership terms state that for continuous cover, they can make changes to the 
terms and conditions, and the premium at any time during the cover period, but that theyll 
always give 45 days notice.
 
The renewal letter issued in May 2020 explained that AAIS were moving Mr R onto a silver 
membership. It explained the perks that came with this membership level, and what the 
additional cost would be, starting on or around 1 August. It asked Mr R to contact AAIS 
should he wish to speak to them about his new cover. 
Mr R says he never received this, however I can see it was sent to the correct address. 
Because of this, Im unable to hold AAIS responsible for Mr R not receiving it. It may have 
been the case that it got lost somewhere along the way with Royal Mail which is unfortunate. 
But I cant say that was AAISs fault.
 
I understand Mr R wouldve liked the document to have been sent by email or recorded 
delivery, however AAIS have explained that their process is to send renewal information by 
post. This isnt something I can ask them to change as there is no requirement to send 
documents by recorded delivery. I also wouldnt find this practical given the number of 
documents they send on a daily basis.
 
Usually, after the 14-day cooling off period had passed, Mr R would have to give AAIS 30 
days notice if he wanted to cancel his policy, and no refunds would be considered. But in 
this case, as a gesture of goodwill, AAIS have agreed to refund the premiums charged in 
July & August. Theyve also cancelled Mr Rs policy. So I think they have treated him more 
than fairly in the handling of the complaint, as this is more than I would expect them to do. 
Because of this, I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman