DRN-3361283
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Portal Financial Services LLP gave her unsuitable advice to transfer 
her pension, go into income drawdown and to invest in high-risk investments.
What happened
I said in my provisional decision dated 11 February 2022, that I was intending to uphold this 
complaint but that I was amending the recommended redress. Mrs E accepted my 
provisional findings but didnt add any further comments. Portal hasnt responded. 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision as follows:
Mrs E had two Personal Pension Plans (PPP) with the same provider Legal & General. In 
October 2011 Portal reviewed Mrs Es existing PPP arrangements. This was with a view to 
advising her on whether switching to another pension plan while receiving a 25% tax-free 
cash lump sum (TFC), would be in her best interests.
Following the review, Portals adviser (the adviser) produced a suitability report for Mrs E. In 
summary, Mrs Es circumstances were recorded as follows:
She was 55 years old and was married.
She was employed earning around £100 a week.
She had two PPPs with a total transfer value of £52,780.
She lived in rented property with her husband.
She had an outstanding credit card balance of £2,500.
Her expected retirement age was 60.
Mrs E main objective was to take her TFC entitlement immediately whilst leaving her 
pension funds invested. She wanted the TFC to help finance visiting her family abroad. 
The adviser recorded Mrs Es as having a moderately cautious attitude to risk which he said 
meant:
Moderately Cautious investors typically have low to moderate levels of knowledge 
about financial matters and quite limited interest in keeping up to date with financial 
issues. They may have some experience of investment products, but will be more 
familiar with bank and building society accounts than other types of investments.
In general, moderately cautious investors are uncomfortable taking risks with their 
investments, but would be willing to do so to a limited extent. They realise that risky 
investments are likely to be better for longer-term returns.
Moderately Cautious investors typically prefer certain outcomes to gambles. They 
can take a relatively long time to make up their mind on financial matters and may 
suffer from regret when decisions turn out badly.
The adviser went on to recommend that Mrs E transfer her PPP to a Transact Self Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP). He said that hed normally recommend that Mrs E leave her 
pension benefits where they were as this was most beneficial in her retirement. But that 
during their telephone conversation, Mrs E advised she was aware of the downfalls in 
taking your benefits now but due to your current circumstances you would like to take your 
benefits immediately; in accord to your wishes, I recommend. The adviser recommended 
the following:
Transfer her existing pension fund to a Transact SIPP.
Take the full 25% TFC entitlement.
Leave her residual fund invested until it was required as an income.
The adviser said that the reason he was recommending this transfer to the selected provider 
was because the potential benefits available at retirement with them look likely to exceed 
the benefits with other possible providers once you have taken your tax free cash lump sum 
from your pension.
The adviser said Mrs E pension funds would be invested as follows:
49% Raithwaites Hypa Fund
5% Hypa Asia Fund
16% Venture Oil International
15% EOS Solar Energy
15% Cash Deposit
The adviser noted the following about the type of investments these were:
The Raithwaites Hypa Fund and Hypa Asia Fund were unregulated collective 
investment schemes (UCIS). The Raithwaites Hypa Fund was a specialist 
investment in a five star hotel development and was designed to yield 8% per 
annum. Hypa Asia Fund invested in Off-Plan villas and Hotel Rooms which would 
be resold at higher prices once buildings were completed. The developments were all 
financed by local banks and the fund was designed to run over a three year period 
and return between 50%-100% on the original investment.
Venture Oil International and Solar Energy funds were also specialised investments. 
Venture Oil pre-purchased Oklahoma Sweet crude oil. This was supplied on a 
monthly basis to the fund over a seven year period and resold on the open market. 
And EOS Solar Energy fund invested in a solar power development in Cyprus where 
the fund had contracted to sell electricity at a fixed price over a twenty five year 
period to the Cypriot government. The initial yield was 8% per annum for three years 
and 10% per annum thereafter denominated in Euros.
The adviser said the promotion and/ or advice on UCISs were restricted under section 238 of 
the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) 2000. And that, amongst other things, this 
was on the grounds that they may carry greater risks than regulated collective investment 
schemes, they werent protected under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme and 
they usually require a sophisticated understanding of investments.
The adviser said that hed conducted full due diligence on the UCIS products to ensure 
these were suitable recommendations based on Mrs Es stated objectives. And he noted that 
Mrs E wasnt exempt under FSMA in that she wasnt a high net worth individual and/ or a 
sophisticated investor. But the adviser said Mrs E was:a person for whom we as an Independent Advisory Firm qualified to advise on UCIS 
investments have taken reasonable steps to ensure that the investment in the particular 
collective investment scheme(s) is suitable following a full KYC (Know Your Customer 
Investigation) and ATR (Attitude to Risk Assessment), this therefore provides an exemption 
under COBS (Conduct of Business) regulations 4.12.
Mrs E accepted the advisers recommendation. A value of £54,967 was transferred from her 
PPP to the recommended SIPP on 15 November 2011 and she withdrew her TFC element 
of £13,741 on 7 December 2011.
On 1 May 2012 Mrs Es annual reporting statement from Transact showed that her pension 
was worth £38,102 after the TFC was withdrawn. And allocations had been made to the 
recommended investments. But by May 2020 Mrs Es SIPP was valued at £704. 
In 2019, Mrs E complained to Portal. She said that she never fully understood the 
recommendations that were made to her by its adviser. She added the investments that 
were part of her pension portfolio when she transferred to a SIPP were too complex for her 
to understand and she didnt believe they met with her risk profile. Mrs E said she was 
relying on the advice given to her by Portal and if the recommendation to transfer to the 
SIPP hadnt been made, she would not have transferred from her PPP.
Portal rejected Mrs Es complaint. It initially said that the matter was out of time. So Mrs E 
brought the complaint to our service. One of our investigators reviewed the matter and didnt 
think the complaint had been made too late. And an ombudsman agreed with this view.
When considering the merits of the complaint, our investigator recommended it should be 
upheld. In brief, he considered that given Mrs Es circumstances she was likely to have a 
cautious attitude to risk. And that the unregulated investments she was advised to invest in 
werent suitable for her when taking this and her capacity for loss into account. He thought 
the percentage of unregulated investments Mrs E were recommended to invest in, was 
unsuitable as it was well above the level recommended by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(the regulator).
Our investigator set out how he thought Portal should put things right. In addition to carrying 
out a loss calculation based on a benchmark of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index, he said Portal should refund its fees to Mrs E and make a payment of £400 
for the trouble and upset it had caused. 
Portal disagreed. In summary, it said:
Mrs E required access to her TFC which she couldnt obtain without going into 
drawdown even if this was with Legal & General itself. As such, Mrs E may have 
been able to take a TFC early but this would have required her taking an annuity. 
The TFC required a drawdown facility and the SIPP met this requirement.
The pension funds were the main way for meeting her objective of moving abroad as 
she had no other available assets.
The Transact SIPP was chosen due to its flexibility, greater access of funds and 
online functionality.
The redress methodology is unreasonable considering Mrs E attitude to risk of 
moderately cautious, as it contains no bond element.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further evidence has been submitted by either party, my decision remains that I am 
upholding this complaint. The reasons for this were set out in my provisional decision  these 
reasons are as follows:
Our service has already considered the issue of jurisdiction and this has been communicated 
to both parties. I note Portals continued objection to our service considering this complaint. 
But it can be assured that I have considered the issue of jurisdiction and Im satisfied that the 
decision previously made on this issue is correct. Therefore, Im satisfied our service does 
have the power to look at this complaint.
The suitability report completed by the Portal adviser, states that Mrs E wanted to use the 
TFC so she could fund visiting family based abroad. Portal says that it was, in fact, so that 
Mrs E could move abroad with her husband. The suitability report said that the only 
significant asset Mrs E had was her pensions held with Legal & General.
From what I can see if Mrs E wanted to achieve her objective of visiting her family abroad, or 
even moving abroad, and keeping her pension funds invested rather than drawing an 
immediate income, Ive seen no persuasive evidence that she could not do this with her 
pension plan with Legal & General (now Reassure). Legal & General has confirmed that 
Mrs E could have entered into a drawdown with her pension and by its own admittance, 
Portal has said that a drawdown facility was possible with Legal & General but Mrs E might 
have needed to move within the latter business to enter into this.
So, I dont think Portal has provided sufficiently compelling reasons to justify a transfer from 
a PPP to a SIPP. Mrs Es PPP allowed her to enter into a drawdown. The only other reason 
for transferring was to invest in funds that would give her a better return. But Ive not seen 
any evidence that Mrs E was provided with a reasonable comparison which might have 
shown her whether the SIPP would provide a greater return at retirement. I think this meant 
that she wasnt put in a fully informed position to make such a decision. And I dont see how 
Mrs E could have formed the view that she might be better off in retirement by investing into 
the SIPP.
There are other reasons for concluding that the advice wasnt suitable. Portal agreed that the 
new strategy would cost Mrs E more than her existing arrangements. The suitability report 
listed the charges Mrs E would be subject to. The adviser said Portals initial fee was 5% of 
the transfer amount and it charged an ongoing adviser fee of 1% of the fund. On top of this 
the SIPP charges with an initial set-up fee of 0.2% of the fund after the TFC applied. As did a 
0.5% plus £80 per year after 2012. The adviser went on to say that Overall, this strategy will 
cost more than your existing arrangement, but will offer potential growth which is not 
available to you at present.
I havent been provided with the Legal & General PPP charges, but I think on balance, from 
Portals statement about the new strategy being more expensive, that this was likely to be 
the case. So, in order to be better off in retirement, the performance of the SIPP needed to 
be much greater in order to offset the effect of the higher charges. Overall, I dont think the 
recommendation to transfer was suitable for Mrs E. I think her key objectives could have 
been achieved through her current PPP with Legal & General without incurring increased 
fees.In addition, looking at what funds were recommended to Mrs E, I think these were also 
unsuitable for her based on her attitude to risk and her capacity for loss. The regulators 
2010 UCIS findings said that as well as UCIS only being eligible for promotion to certain 
customers which were generally sophisticated, high net worth investors, as an example, it 
said that even when a customer was deemed eligible for the promotion of UCIS, suitable 
advice involved limiting a client's exposure to these investments to 3% to 5% of their 
retirement provision.
Mrs Es exposure to UCIS products was much higher than the regulators recommended 3% 
to 5%. The two recommended UCISs accounted for 54% of Mrs E investment allocations. 
And whilst not UCISs, both Solar Energy and Venture Oil were also very specialised 
unregulated investments. The former was a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for a project 
that sought to use a new technology in Cyprus. Similarly, Venture Oil was a highly 
specialised product investing in barrels of crude oil which had a currency risk and exposure 
to losses if the price of oil fell. The regulator has noted about these types of investments in 
its June 2013 Policy Statement PS13/3 that:
Pooled investments or funds characterised by unusual, speculative or complex assets, 
product structures, investment strategies and/or terms and features. They are units in 
unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS); securities issued by certain special 
purpose vehicles (SPVs); units in qualified investor schemes (QIS); and traded life policy 
investments (TLPIs).
So, I think that the investments recommended to Mrs E were only suitable for a more 
sophisticated, experienced investor. Mrs Es total asset allocation in unregulated products 
was 85%. I dont think any part of the investments recommended to Mrs E were suitable for 
her. And certainly not in the proportion she was recommended to invest in.
Mrs E was classified as a moderately cautious investor. Ive set out above how Portal 
defined this type of investor. I cant see, by even Portals own definition of a moderately 
cautious risk investor, that these products met with Mrs Es recorded attitude to risk. Or that 
they would have been fully understood by her. On grounds of risk alone, therefore, I see no 
reasonable justification for the recommendation to invest in these unregulated schemes.
The descriptions of these schemes as Ive set out above, make it clear that these were 
highly specialised and high risk investments. As Portal itself said, they were illiquid and 
came with significant risks that an unexperienced investor such as Mrs E would not fully 
appreciate. In that context, Im not persuaded that the recommendation to invest almost all of 
Mrs Es pension fund into these schemes can be reasonably justified.
Portals suitability report acknowledged the associated risks and restrictions that applied to 
the promotion of UCIS. And it did say Mrs E wasnt a high net worth individual and/ or 
sophisticated investor. But it went on to say its adviser was qualified to advise on UCIS 
investments because of COBS 4.12 exemption. At the time of the advice COBS 4.12.1 
stated the following:
(1) A firm may communicate an invitation or inducement to participate in an unregulated 
collective investment scheme without breaching the restriction on promotion in section 238 
of the Act if the promotion falls within an exemption in the table in (4), as explained further in 
the Notes.
(2) Where the left-hand column in the table in (4) refers to promotion to a category of person, 
this means that the invitation or inducement:(a) is made only to recipients who the firm has taken reasonable steps to establish 
are persons in that category; or
(b) is directed at recipients in a way that may reasonably be regarded as designed to 
reduce, so far as possible, the risk of participation in the collective investment 
scheme by persons who are not in that category.
Even though a summary of the COBS statement as Ive set out above, appeared in Mrs Es 
suitability report, given her level of understanding and experience of investments I dont think 
its likely she wouldve understood what this exemption meant. I also dont think it was made 
clear to her why these investments werent suitable for most retail investors, and/ or why an 
exception was being applied in her case.
So, despite what Portal says, I think if Mrs E had been correctly advised I dont think she 
would have transferred her PPP from her provider to a SIPP and/ or invested in the way that 
she did.
I note that our investigator refunded the initial fees separately. But I dont think this was 
necessary. This is because the redress calculations replace the actual growth Mrs E 
wouldve achieved with a benchmark that doesn't allow for these same fees to be deducted, 
so there was no need for the investigator to specify a refund of fees separately.
For all these reasons, Im intending to uphold this complaint.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs E should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I think Mrs E would have remained with her previous provider, however, I cannot be certain 
that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. I am 
satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given 
Mrs E's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Portal Financial Services LLP do?
To compensate Mrs E fairly, Portal Financial Services LLP must:
Compare the performance of Mrs E's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Portal Financial Services LLP should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Portal Financial Services LLP should pay into Mrs E's pension plan 
to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The 
amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Portal Financial Services LLP is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs E's 
pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay 
into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mrs E wont be able to reclaim any of the 
reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs E's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mrs E is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
Pay Mrs E £400 for the distress caused by the total loss of the investment and 
disruption to Mrs E's retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal Financial Services LLP deducts 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs E how much has been taken off. Portal 
Financial Services LLP should give Mrs E a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if 
Mrs E asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Transact 
SIPPStill exists 
but illiquidNotional value
from previous
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Portal Financial Services LLP should take ownership of the illiquid assets by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal Financial Services 
LLP pays should be included in the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal Financial Services LLP is unable to purchase the portfolio the actual value should 
be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Portal Financial Services LLP may 
require that Mrs E provides an undertaking to pay Portal Financial Services LLP any amount 
she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax 
and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. 
Portal Financial Services LLP will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mrs E's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal Financial Services LLP should request that the previous provider calculate 
this value.Any withdrawal from the Transact SIPP should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal Financial Services LLP totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting 
periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal Financial Services LLP 
will need to determine a fair value for Mrs E's investment instead, using this benchmark: For 
half the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other 
half: average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation 
of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
The Transact SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the Transact SIPP to 
be closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal Financial Services LLP 
taking over the investment, or this is something that Mrs E can discuss with the provider 
directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal 
Financial Services LLP is unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all 
parties I think its fair that it pays Mrs E an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth 
of wrapper fees (calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a 
reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the Transact SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs E wanted Capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs E's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs E into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs E would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs E could have obtained from 
investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Portal Financial Services LLP should pay Mrs E the amount 
calculated under Fair compensation along with the distress and inconvenience payment of 
£400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman