DRN-3841238
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his car insurer Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV) because it provided him poor service which was then compounded, in his view, 
by a poor response to his complaint.
What happened
Mr M called LV to ask about his policy. He wasnt happy with the conduct of the 
representative he spoke to, or that when he asked to speak to a manager, he was placed on 
hold for a very long time. Mr M complained to LV. An LV complaint handler wrote to Mr M 
and said it accepted there had been some poor service and £50 compensation would be 
paid to Mr Ms credit card to resolve the issue. The payment was made and Mr M was 
unhappy as he hadnt had chance to respond, he hadnt been given referral rights to this 
service and he did not want an unauthorised payment being to his credit card.
LV responded to Mr Ms concerns. It confirmed it hadnt provided good service in the first 
instance. It also accepted it should have checked with him before making the payment. LV 
said that if Mr M gave it authorisation to do so, it would debit his credit card to remove the 
credit it had paid, and it would send him a cheque. In further correspondence, LV noted 
Mr M had not authorised it to debit his credit card  and said it would send him a cheque 
anyway. Mr M received the cheque but returned it to LV and complained to us. LV confirmed 
to us that it had received the cheque back and cancelled it, and that it had not acted further 
regarding resolving the amount on Mr Ms credit card.
Our Investigator noted that LV had accepted that it had not met its usual service standards. 
But she felt the payment LV had made to Mr Ms credit card had most likely been made in 
good faith. So she wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. 
Mr M remained unhappy. He said he wanted the money to be taken back from his credit card 
without any involvement from him. His complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr M was unhappy with the conduct of LVs representative when he called 
LV to discuss the cover on his policy. I understand that LV accepts that he should have been 
given an identification code by the representative in lieu of their surname and that LV has 
provided feedback to the individual. I know it was also frustrating for Mr M to have to wait so 
long on the phone to speak to a manager. LV has explained this was due to a system error 
and has apologised. I know Mr M would like to see proof to support this  but LV has 
explained that this sort of detail is not kept for very long. What is important here, for me, is 
that Mr M was able to speak to someone that day, and LV has apologised for the 
inconvenience and frustration he was caused. LV also offered the £50 at the heart of Mr Ms 
further concerns as compensation for this upset.
I can understand why Mr M was unhappy at this payment being made to his credit card 
without authorisation. But, I do think LV paid it with good intention. Paying it meant that Mr M 
did not have to take the time to respond to the letter if he didnt want to  he could still have 
the benefit of the money which LV felt he was reasonably entitled to receive because of its 
error. 
I know Mr M might have preferred LV to call him to discuss his complaint and that he is 
concerned that the letter he received offering the £50 gave him no referral rights to this 
service. However, Mr M had complained to LV in late September 2020 and that gave LV 
eight weeks in which to consider his complaint and provide a final written response. And only 
final responses are required to contain the details of referral rights to this service. So it 
wasnt unreasonable for LV to right to Mr M, within that time, in early November 2020, with a 
suggested way forward to resolve his complaint. 
I know Mr M is also concerned that he was sent a cheque, without the sum being taken off of 
his credit card. But, I think LV did this to try and resolve things, at least in part. Sending Mr M 
the cheque meant he would have access to the funds LV felt he was entitled to without 
accessing the credit on his card that remained in dispute. Cashing this cheque, in this 
situation, wouldnt in my view, have prevented us from being able to consider Mr Ms 
complaint.   
I know Mr M would like LV to resolve the credit card sum without his involvement. But I dont 
think its unreasonable for LV to ask for him to at least give his express authorisation for it to 
do so. I think Mr M may also be unhappy that LVs suggested method for doing so is to debit 
the account with £50, rather than specifically removing the original credit. But I dont think 
that is an unreasonable way for this to be resolved. 
This service is not a regulator, so we dont have any power to make businesses change the 
way they operate. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. And nor do we oversee 
the data protection rules. That is the Information Commissioners Office. Further we dont act 
for either party. Whist we will gather evidence from both parties relevant to our investigations 
and considerations, we wouldnt act as a facilitator for obtaining data merely because one of 
the parties would like to see it.
Overall, I think LV has acted fairly and reasonably to try and resolve things for Mr M. If Mr M 
wants LV to debit his credit card and send him a chequer for £50, he should contact it direct. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman