DRN-4028345
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car he acquired with credit from Hyundai Capital UK Limited trading 
as Kia Finance (Kia) wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr C entered into a credit agreement with Kia in April 2022 to acquire a new car. The credit 
to buy the car was granted by Kia under a conditional sale agreement. This meant Kia was 
the owner of the car and Mr C was, in essence, paying for the use of it. As owner, Kia was 
responsible for the quality of the car.
The cash price of the car was £35,305. This reduced to £34,558 with a part-exchange and 
contributions from the dealership and Mr C paid a cash deposit of £1,563. Mr C borrowed 
£32,995 and the total amount owed under the agreement including interest came to 
£36,192.56. This was to be repaid in monthly instalments of £422.71.
Mr C told Kia in October 2022 that the car was over-revving. He said that the car had been 
back to the selling dealership a number of times already but it hadnt managed to replicate 
and repair the fault. On Kias advice Mr C brought the car back to the dealership on 
28 October but the fault remained. 
Kia organised an independent inspection of the car on 14 November 2022. The inspection 
concluded that the fault had been present and developing when the car had been supplied to 
Mr C and that the dealership was responsible for the cost of repair. The dealership took the 
car in for repair again on 24 November. The dealer replicated the fault but said it was a 
characteristic of the vehicle. 
Mr C referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it. They 
recommended that it be upheld and that Mr C be allowed to reject the car. The dealership 
hadnt repaired the car following the independent report and several months had now 
passed. Allowing a repair at this stage would cause further inconvenience to Mr C. 
Kia issued a final response to Mr Cs complaint on 24 February 2023, after wed issued our 
recommendation. Kia concluded that there was a fault with the car which had been there 
when it was supplied. It upheld Mr Cs complaint on the basis that he had a right to have the 
vehicle repaired but not that he had a right to reject it. Kia offered Mr C compensation of 
£200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience the matter had caused him. 
Mr C didnt agree with Kias final response because he wishes to reject the car.  
The complaint has now come to me, as ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to reassure both parties that I have considered everything theyve provided though I 
might not directly refer to it in my decision. 
As mentioned, Kia organised an independent inspection of the car on 14 November 2022. 
The inspector replicated the fault twice and described it as an intermittent high revving 
event with the engine revving in excess of 3,500 rpm without traction over some 2-3 
seconds. The report concluded that the fault had been present and developing at the 
inception of the agreement and that the selling agent was responsible for the cost of repair. 
The dealership pointed out to Kia that the independent inspection report included incorrect 
details about the car, for example the chassis number and the fuel type, and so it had doubts 
about the reports conclusion. Ive noted that the photos of the car which accompanied the 
report contained the correct chassis number and the report errors, bar the fuel type, were 
later amended. 
When the dealership took the car in for repair on 24 November, it provided a replacement 
car for Mr C. The job card for the work recorded that on a road test the dealer replicated the 
fault and described it as when pulling off rapidly the car will rev to 3,000 and hold the gear 
until Ive taken my foot off the pedal. The dealer said this was characteristic of the vehicle 
and recorded that a comparison vehicle had been tested and exhibited the same behaviour. 
The dealer noted that they hadnt found any previous error codes recorded on the cars 
diagnostic system, although a flight recording on their long test had captured three instances 
of Mr Cs concern.   
As set out in Kias final response to Mr Cs complaint on 24 February 2023, it accepted the 
conclusions of the independent report and agreed that there was a fault with the car which 
had been present or developing when it was supplied. Kia said that as the fault happened 
within six months of possession, Kia and the dealership were obliged to repair the vehicle for 
the customer. Kia upheld Mr Cs complaint on the basis that he had a right to have the 
vehicle repaired but not that he had a right to reject it. Kia offered Mr C compensation of 
£200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience the matter had caused him. 
It seems to me that there is no longer any dispute that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr C - Kia has accepted the conclusions of the independent report 
and upheld his complaint. What is in dispute is whether Mr C can now reject the car. 
The Consumer Rights Act (CRA) 2015 is relevant here. The CRA gives customers solutions 
if they find themselves with faulty goods. They can reject the goods if the fault happens 
within 30 days, or have the goods repaired or replaced. Outside of this period the supplier 
has the chance to repair the goods before anything else happens. The supplier must either 
repair or replace the goods within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to 
the customer (Section 23). If this doesnt solve the problem and its found that the fault was 
there or developing when the goods were supplied, then a consumer might be entitled to 
other solutions such as a price reduction or a final right to reject the goods.
Mr C took delivery of the car in early May 2022 and Kia told him in its final response at the 
end of February that he could have the car repaired. I understand that in the intervening nine 
months the car has been with the dealership four times, once after the independent report 
was produced. The dealership has acknowledged that Mr Cs issue with the vehicle was 
present during its test on 24 November but the vehicle remained unrepaired by the time of 
Kias final response some three months later. Its clear to me that Kia has had a reasonable 
period of time to rectify things for Mr C by either repairing or replacing the car, that the 
ongoing fault has significantly inconvenienced Mr C and that another attempt at repair now 
would cause further inconvenience to him.Ive concluded that Mr C should now be allowed to reject the vehicle. It should be collected 
from Mr C at no cost to him. 
I understand that Mr C has been making his monthly repayments of £422.71. Kia can retain 
Mr Cs monthly payments as hes had the use of the car and would likely have needed to 
pay something for remaining mobile. That said, I understand his enjoyment of the car has 
been curtailed by the fault so I think it would be fair in this case for Kia to refund a 
percentage of the monthly payments to Mr C to reflect this. Our investigator felt that this 
deduction shouldnt cover the week Mr C was given a courtesy car by the dealership at the 
end of November 2022. I havent made this direction because Ive assumed Mr C was 
unable to use the car for normal purposes during the other times it was with the dealership 
for investigation. 
In addition, Mr C has experienced distress and inconvenience by being supplied with a faulty 
car. Hes shared that he has a health condition and the stress of this experience has 
exacerbated his symptoms. There isnt a specific calculation for awards to compensate for 
the emotional impact of errors. We have an approach (which is set out on our website) which 
Ive borne in mind alongside everything else when making this decision. Our investigator 
proposed an amount of £200 which seems to me to be a fair and reasonable amount in the 
context of this case. 
Putting things right
In summary, Kia should:
End the agreement with nothing further for Mr C to pay and collect the car at no 
further cost to him; and
Refund Mr Cs deposit contribution of £1,563 along with 10% of his monthly 
repayments; and
Add 8% simple interest per annum* to all refunds from the time of payment until the 
time of reimbursement; and
Pay Mr C an amount of £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused to him; and
Remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file in relation to the agreement 
(if any).
** If Kia considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above Im upholding Mr Cs complaint against Hyundai Capital 
UK Limited trading as Kia Finance and it now need to take the steps Ive outlined to put 
things right for him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman