DRN-2523561
The complaint
Mr F complains about the actions of Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax when he was 
tricked into sending an international payment as a result of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Between October 2019 and January 2020 Mr F made payments to two merchants through 
cryptocurrency exchanges. In total he sent around £49,000 to the two merchants, through 
the cryptocurrency exchanges, with his debit card and a £10,000 online transfer. On 30 
December 2019 Mr F made four payments on his credit card, totalling around £12,000 
including transaction fees, again to cryptocurrency exchanges. When Mr F tried to make the 
fourth payment the credit card was blocked, and he had to speak to Halifax for the last 
payment to be released. Following this conversation, the credit card payment was released. 
Mr F has also raised the debit card and the £10,000 payment as a complaint, but these are 
being considered separately. 
In January 2020, after making the payments, Mr F was told to invest more money directly to 
a different merchant, so he took out a £12,000 loan with a third party and made an 
international payment online for £11,858.78 directly to the merchant. 
Later the same month Mr F lost contact with the merchants and did some more research. He 
then uncovered in February 2020 that this was a scam, so he raised the international 
payment with Halifax. 
Halifax considered the matter but said Mr F wasnt entitled to the return of the international 
payment. It said he had authorised the payment and it could only try and recover the money 
on a best endeavours basis because it was sent internationally, and the receiving bank had 
said no funds remained in its account. Mr F remained unhappy and brought his complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator didnt think Halifax should refund the money Mr F sent to the scammers. 
She wasnt persuaded Halifax shouldve done more to stop the transfer to the scammers 
account because she didnt think they were unusual or suspicious and that Halifax had 
attempted to recover Mr Fs money but no funds remained in the receiving bank account.
Mr F disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said Halifax shouldve done 
more to protect his money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr F has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
It is common ground that Mr F authorised the scam payment totalling £11,858.78. I accept 
that this was an authorised payment even though Mr F was the victim of a scam. He 
provided valid instructions for the payment. So, although it wasnt his intention to pay money 
to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of 
his account, Mr F is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for Halifax to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
in order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Halifaxs first obligation is to follow the instructions that Mr F provides. But if those
instructions are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect Halifax to 
intervene and to ask their customer more about the intended transaction before processing 
it. Id also expect Halifax to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help their 
customer make an informed decision as to whether to continue with the payment. There 
might also be cases where its appropriate for Halifax to refuse to follow the instruction if 
there are good grounds to believe it is being made as a result of a fraud or scam. 
So, the starting point here is whether the instruction by Mr F (to transfer £11,858.78 to the 
scammers) given to Halifax was unusual in relation to his typical account activity. So, Ive 
reviewed the account statements for the nine months prior to the scam payments being 
made. I think this gives a sufficient sample size to fairly assess the activity. The account 
typically maintained a healthy balance which ranged between around £1,000 and on 
occasions up to around £4,000. There were direct debits/standing orders, transfers and bill 
payments ranging from £500 to £2,500 and the payment to the scammers here was for more 
money than was typically paid away from the account. As a result, Im satisfied Mr Fs 
payment ought to have stood out to Halifax as unusual or suspicious.
I feel its worth mentioning here that even though I agree that Mr Fs payment shouldve 
been stopped by Halifax and more questions asked about why he was making it, Im not 
satisfied it wouldve made a difference. Its clear Mr F was under the influence of the 
scammers at this point, which is why he had paid a lot of money through his debit and credit 
cards previously to both the scammers. And he was comfortable in making payments to 
legitimate trading companies because he had invested with them before. 
Ive listened to the call that took place in December 2019 when Mr F had attempted to make 
a credit card payment to a cryptocurrency exchange, and it hadnt gone through. During this 
call, Im satisfied Mr F was provided with an adequate warning about these types of scams 
and he confirmed he was still happy to make the payment. In the call Halifax questioned not 
only the purchase of cryptocurrency but who the end recipient was going to be. And they 
asked questions about how Mr F had been contacted by the merchant and what checks he 
had done. So, I dont think  on balance  a further warning from Halifax wouldve made a difference 
here. Even if Halifax had done more, I think Mr F would have instructed the payment in any 
case. My best evidence for what would have happened had they intervened as Id have 
expected, is what actually did happen when a similar intervention actually took place. I want 
to be clear that Im not blaming Mr F for what happened here. He was the victim of a cruel 
and sophisticated scam. But I dont think Halifax has treated him unfairly. 
When Mr F raised the scam with Halifax, Ive seen that it raised a dispute with the receiving 
bank a few days later, which is a bit slower than Id expect, but it was told that no funds 
remained. So, Ive considered whether the delay made a difference here. The internal notes 
show that when Halifax raised the scam the response from the receiving bank was very slow 
and a final answer that no funds remained wasnt communicated until early March 2020. 
Its not uncommon for money transferred as a result of a scam to be moved very quickly. 
And recovery of the money internationally isnt as straightforward as within the UK where 
there are established best practice standards to follow. Halifax can only make the request on 
a best endeavours basis  which is what it did here. So, although the claim couldve been 
raised slightly sooner, I dont think  on balance - this made a difference here. 
So, Im not going to ask Halifax to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman