DRN-2961465
The complaint
Mr W complains about the decision by Western Provident Association Limited (WPA) to 
turn down a private medical insurance claim due to misrepresentation.
What happened
Mr W is insured on his wifes employers group private medical insurance scheme. He joined 
the scheme on 1 November 2020 on a fully underwritten basis. WPA accepted Mr W for 
cover, though it excluded claims for (or related to) chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) and 
cardiac arrhythmia.
Mr W was later diagnosed with an intracranial tumour. Mr W asked WPA to pay for surgery 
to have the tumour removed. 
Whilst assessing the claim, WPA found that Mr W had been referred to a neurologist for his 
symptoms at the time he completed the application form. WPA thought Mr W ought to have 
disclosed that information when hed joined the scheme, as well as his symptoms, and that 
he hadnt received a diagnosis. It said that if hed done so, it wouldve added an exclusion for 
his symptoms of dizziness, light-headedness, fainting and involuntary facial movements. As 
Mr W had since received a diagnosis, it added an exclusion retrospectively for intracranial 
tumour and turned down the claim. 
Unhappy with this, Mr W brought a complaint to this service. He went ahead with the surgery 
privately and paid for this himself.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. Based on the questions Mr W had 
been asked when joining the scheme, she didnt think that hed misrepresented information 
about his health. She therefore recommended that WPA remove the exclusion and pay the 
claim, plus interest.
WPA didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this complaint concerns misrepresentation, I need to consider the case in accordance 
with the principles set out under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. 
Although Mr W was joining a corporate scheme, he is considered a consumer for the 
purposes of CIDRA, because the contract wouldve been a consumer contract if it had been 
taken out by Mr W rather than his wifes employer.
In order to first decide whether there was misrepresentation, I need to be satisfied that clear 
questions were asked, and that Mr Ws answers were wrong.
Mr W completed an application form online on 26 October 2020. WPA has referred to four 
questions on that application. Ive set out each of these below, together with Mr Ws 
answers. 
Question One  Specialist/GP/therapist visits or investigations
Have you or any family member(s) applying for cover seen a specialist, been treated in 
hospital or had any tests/investigations (e.g. scans, x-rays, blood tests, biopsies, diagnostic 
genetic or screening tests) for any condition(s)/symptoms or allergies within the last 5 years 
or consulted a GP or other healthcare professional in the last year?
I dont think this question is particularly clear. Its effectively asking two questions with two 
different relevant date ranges. One for seeing a specialist or having investigations in the last 
five years, and the other for seeing a GP or healthcare professional in the last year. 
Nonetheless, Mr W answered yes to this question. When asked about the condition details 
he explained that he had had an ECG, a tilt test and blood tests since 1 April 2019. He also 
confirmed he took medication and the condition still existed.
Question Two - Medication
Do you or any family member(s) applying for cover take any prescribed medicines (other 
than for contraception)?
I think this was a clear question.
Mr W told WPA about the medication hed been prescribed (a beta blocker as well as 
another medicine). He also confirmed the condition began in April 2019 and still existed.
Question Five  Long term/recurring conditions
Have you or any family member(s) applying for cover EVER been diagnosed or had 
consultations/tests/investigations/treatment for a long term/recurring condition?
This seems to be a catch all or memory question, as no date range is given. Nonetheless, 
Mr W explained that he had had CFS since January 2010, he didnt take any medication, 
and that the condition still existed.
Question Nine  Undiagnosed symptoms
Have you or any family member(s) applying for cover, in the last year, had any condition(s) 
or symptom(s) for which a specialist, GP or healthcare professionals opinion has not yet 
been sought but remain ongoing? For example: Change in bowel habit; Chest pain; 
Shortness of breath; Weight loss; Abdominal pain; Dizziness; Rectal bleeding; Joint pain; 
Breast lump; Other diagnosed symptoms?
I think this question couldve been clearer. But Ive addressed this below.
Mr W answered no to this question.
Did Mr W fail to take reasonable care when answering the above questions?WPA says that Mr W had experienced fainting, light-headedness and dizziness from April 
2019. And although it accepts he told it about the investigations hed had, it says he didnt 
tell it about the specific symptoms hed experienced, or that hed been referred to a 
neurologist on 7 October 2020, as no cause for his symptoms had been found. 
I see that in January 2020, Mr Ws consultant physician said that an echo scan showed no 
problems with the structure of his heart. Though occasionally the heart put in an extra beat 
called an ectopic beat. The consultant noted that a beta blocker had previously been 
recommended, but thought Mr W should hold off on this until the tilt table test was done. I 
understand Mr W later started on the beta blocker. 
Mr W says he thought his symptoms of fainting and dizziness were to do with this heart 
problem, for which hed been prescribed medication. And that he didnt know the symptoms 
he was experiencing were indicative of another problem, which later turned out to be a 
tumour. 
Having looked carefully at the four questions above, I dont agree with WPA that Mr W failed 
to take reasonable care when completing the application form. Ill explain why.
Mr W answered yes to question one, and when asked about the condition details he told 
WPA about the investigations hed had for his symptoms. Mr W didnt name a condition, and 
instead just described the investigations hed had and medication hed been given for his 
symptoms. 
When reviewing the application, WPA couldve asked Mr W for more information about his 
symptoms and diagnosis if it had wanted, but it didnt do so. If it had done, Mr W couldve 
told it about his symptoms and that he was still having investigations. However, Im satisfied 
that Mr W didnt misrepresent any information in response to this question. 
I dont think the other questions would have reasonably prompted Mr W to disclose that he 
was awaiting a referral for neurology. The question about undiagnosed symptoms asked if 
hed had any condition or symptoms for which a specialist, GP or healthcare professionals 
opinion hadnt yet been sought. Although Mr W was awaiting the opinion of a neurologist, its 
also the case that he had seen his GP and a number of specialists about his symptoms, and 
so I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr W to answer no to this question as it wasnt 
particularly clear. 
Consequently, I agree with our investigator that Mr W did take reasonable care when 
completing the application form and so there wasnt any misrepresentation. WPA should 
therefore now deal with the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Western Provident Association 
Limited to remove the exclusion. It should then deal with the claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms. As Mr W has paid for the procedure himself, WPA should reimburse him and 
add interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date he paid the invoice to the date 
of settlement*.
* If WPA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman