DRN-4018476
The complaint
Mr R has complained that he was unable to access his Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) 
account through online banking. 
Mr R is also unhappy that when he tried to contact YBS though telephone banking he was 
told due to a high volume of calls, he would have to wait 15 minutes. 
Because of the wait times, YBS offered to provide Mr R with a call back instead. Mr R chose 
this option, but when YBS called him back, there was a problem as the member of staff 
couldnt connect the call and the line was cut.
What happened
YBS did not think it was at fault for Mr R being unable to log in to online banking, but it did 
acknowledge that the call back service did not go as planned, and so paid Mr R £80.45 for 
Mr Rs costs to send a letter, for his milage (as he attended branch to carry out the 
transaction) and for the distress and inconvenience caused.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they thought that what YBS offered 
Mr R as redress was reasonable, and so did not think that any more compensation was 
warranted.
Mr R disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I agree that the compensation YBS paid Mr R was reasonable 
in the circumstances, largely for the reasons that the adjudicator gave.
Mr R says that he tried logging in to his account online twice and both attempts were 
unsuccessful. Mr R says he entered the correct information when he attempted to log in, so 
says that his failure to log in was YBSs fault.
Unfortunately, YBS was no longer able to access the login details that showed the specifics 
of the logging in attempts. But YBS says that its system shows the attempted log in entries 
as failed login, and so concluded that it was likely user error that prevented Mr R from 
logging in.
In the circumstances, I cant necessarily say that YBS was at fault for Mr R being unable to 
log in to his bank online. I say this because, although Mr R says that he entered the correct 
details, Im sure most people have been in the situation where they are attempting to log in 
to something online and are convinced they are using the correct credentials, but after a few 
unsuccessful attempts realise they in fact were not e.g. because of a repeated typo, CAPS 
being on etc. So, I cant rule out the possibility that Mr R had mis-typed the wrong 
characters. 
However, even if it is the case that Mr R did enter the correct characters and the reason why 
he couldnt log in was because of a fault with YBS system, I dont think that in itself means 
that compensation is warranted in the circumstances. Afterall, no system is perfect, and we 
all occasionally experience a level of inconvenience in our day to day lives when things dont 
work as they should, but that doesnt mean that compensation is warranted just because 
something doesnt work as it shouldve.
In this case, because Mr R could not log in online, he then attempted to make the 
transaction using telephone banking. Mr R says that when he called up he was told there 
was a 15 minute wait. 
In my view, whilst such a wait is of course not ideal, at the same time its not exactly an 
unreasonable amount of time to wait. Furthermore, Mr R was presented with the choice of a 
call back, or alternatively he couldve hung up and tried logging in online a while later, to see 
if the issue had been rectified. Or failing that he had the option of visiting a branch. So, in the 
circumstances, given the range of options Mr R had available to him, again I cant say that 
compensation is warranted just because YBS was unable to deal with his call immediately.
I understand Mr R chose to receive a call back. However, when the call back was made, 
there was glitch, and the member of staff could not connect the call. This resulted in the line 
being cut. YBS acknowledge that this should not have happened and apologised for the 
technical issue.
In the circumstances I think that YBSs offer of £80.45 because of the inconvenience caused 
by the call back not going as it shouldve is reasonable in the circumstances. Overall, I think 
it reasonably reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr R in choosing to visit a 
YBS branch to carry out the transaction. I say this bearing in mind that Mr R couldve 
resolved the issue quite simply by either calling YBS back and selecting the call back option 
again (to save himself from being on hold), or as mentioned above, tried logging in online a 
while later, to save himself the bother of going to a branch. 
As such, I dont think YBS needs to pay Mr R any more compensation in relation to this 
matter.  
Finally, I can see that Mr R, in his response to the adjudicators assessment, has raised a 
number of issues about raising his complaint with YBS. However, as complaint handling is 
not in itself a regulated activity, our service is not able to investigate how a complaint is 
handled. We can usually only consider the issue that is being complained about. So in this 
case, all that we can comment on is Mr Rs concerns about being unable to log in online and 
his experience when using the telephone banking service. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman