DRN-3394410
The complaint
Mrs N complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited dealt with her claim on her 
vehicle breakdown cover policy.  
What happened
Mrs N has breakdown cover for her car, provided by Admiral. In September 2021 she locked 
her car keys in the vehicle while her young child was inside. She called Admiral for 
assistance and it sent an engineer. The engineer was unable to gain entry to the vehicle to 
retrieve the keys, so a locksmith was called. They attended and were able to open the 
vehicle. This cost Mrs N £118.  
Mrs N was unhappy with the service Admiral had provided and made a complaint. She said 
the engineer it sent out did very little to solve the problem and just waited for the locksmith. 
And the locksmith tried the same methods and was successful in getting access to the car. 
She said Admirals engineer should have been able to complete the same action and if it 
had, she wouldnt have had to pay. Therefore she thought Admiral should reimburse the cost 
of the locksmiths services. 
Admiral didnt uphold the complaint. It said its engineer doesnt hold the same specialist 
equipment that a locksmith does, so it wouldnt have been able to complete the same 
techniques. It also said that when the engineer attended Mrs N had already called a 
locksmith, so it was right that its engineer waited with her to allow the locksmith access to 
the car.
Mrs N wasnt happy with this response, she said the locksmith used the same method as the 
engineer and didnt use any specialist equipment. She also said she only called the 
locksmith after the engineer had tried and failed to get access to the vehicle. She thought the 
engineer should have done more to solve the problem and if it had the locksmith wouldnt 
have been needed. She brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. He said 
he thought it most likely that the locksmith had been called after the engineer had failed to 
open the car, rather than before. And he said the technique carried out by the locksmith 
didnt involve using any specialist equipment, but was the same as the method used by the 
engineer. So he thought Admiral should pay the cost of the locksmith attending as this 
shouldnt have been necessary. 
Mrs N accepted our investigators recommendation, however Admiral didnt. It said the 
locksmiths attendance was required as its engineer didnt have the tools or techniques to 
solve the problem and this isnt guaranteed under the policy.  It asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ns policy states as follows:
If your keys are locked inside your vehicle we will send a breakdown mechanic to assist 
you.
All other costs incurred will be at your expense.
So I agree with Admiral that the policy doesnt guarantee the engineer that attends will 
resolve the issue without further costs. However I would expect the engineer to attempt to 
solve the problem in the first instance. So Ive considered if Admiral treated Mrs N fairly. 
There is very little evidence provided by Admiral and Mrs N. While a report was submitted by 
Admirals engineer this contains very little detail about the action that was taken. And there is 
no detail provided by the locksmith. So Ive considered what each side has said to decide 
whats most likely. 
What is accepted by both sides is that the engineer attended and was unable to resolve the 
problem. Admiral has said that a locksmith had already been called when they attended 
however Mrs N disputes this. From considering everything, it seems unlikely Mrs N would 
have also called a locksmith, without first exploring a fix through insurance cover. So I think it 
most likely the locksmith was called once the engineer had said he was unable to assist. 
Admiral also accepts that its engineer predominantly waited for the locksmith to arrive, rather 
than attempting a proactive fix. And from Mrs Ns account the locksmith easily gained access 
to the vehicle by jamming the door open and using a rod to access the keys on the car seat. 
While Admiral has said the reason a fix wasnt possible was due to specialist equipment 
used, they havent disputed Mrs Ns account of how the problem was resolved. And the 
method used matches what Admiral has said its engineer attempted themselves. From the 
description of the method used by the locksmith, I cant see that any specialist techniques or 
equipment were used. So it seems Admirals engineer could have done more to assist Mrs 
N, and if it had it seems likely it could have resolved the problem. 
It is also of note that Mrs Ns young child was locked inside the car with the keys, so the 
experience caused Mrs N some significant distress. And this wasnt helped by the fact 
Admiral were unable to resolve the problem in the first instance. 
So in summary, I dont think Admiral did enough to provide assistance to Mrs N in the 
circumstances. While the policy doesnt guarantee a fix, it is there to provide assistance and 
attempt to resolve the situation as far as possible. And from what Ive seen, I dont think this 
was fulfilled. It seems most likely that if the engineer had been more proactive, the 
locksmiths service wouldnt have been required and Mrs N would have been saved the 
additional distress of waiting longer while her child was locked in the car. Based on this, I 
agree with our investigators recommendation that Admiral reimburse Mrs N for the cost of 
the locksmith. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Ns complaint and require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to reimburse Mrs N £118 for the cost of the locksmith.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman