DRN-4036341
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA Underwriting) 
says they need to make a new subsidence claim before it will investigate cracking damage 
at their home.
What happened
There have been several businesses involved in this claim and complaint acting as agents or 
representatives of AA Underwriting. Any reference I make to AA Underwriting in this decision 
also includes the actions or representations of its agents.
Mr and Mrs H first raised a claim for cracking damage to their home in the summer of 2020. 
AA Underwriting carried out drainage investigations and completed a repair to a downpipe. It 
also carried out ground investigations. AA Underwriting suggested the likely cause of 
movement was a shrub growing on the side wall of Mr and Mrs Hs house. These 
investigations took until mid-2021.
AA Underwriting told Mr and Mrs H to remove the shrub and then monitor the damage for a 
period of three months, to see if the issue had been resolved. When Mr and Mrs H reported 
no worsening, or additional, damage AA Underwriting concluded the cause of movement 
had been addressed. But it advised Mr and Mrs H that the cost to repair the cracking 
damage fell below the relevant policy excess of £1,000.
Mr and Mrs H noticed further cracking damage, and a dropped patio slab in the vicinity of the 
previous area of drain access in the summer of 2022. They reported these issues to 
AA Underwriting, but it says the issues are separate to the previous claim and so a new 
claim will need to be raised before it will undertake any investigations into possible 
subsidence.
Unhappy with AA Underwritings decision, Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to our 
service where it was considered by one of our investigators. She said AA Underwriting 
hadnt persuaded her that the cause of the earlier subsidence had been properly identified or 
remedied. She said AA Underwriting should carry out further investigations into both areas of 
damage, including a period of level monitoring, before reaching a decision on whether the 
new damage is linked to the previous claim or is separate.  
Mr and Mrs H accepted our investigators assessment, but AA Underwriting didnt. So, as no 
agreement has been reached, their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
AA Underwriting says the shrub it advised Mr and Mrs H to remove was the likely cause of 
the damage in 2020/2021 and that the new damage is on an entirely separate part of the 
property. It says its site investigations at the time showed no further potential issues. It also 
says that further movement or damage linked to the initial cause would likely have been 
evident during the three-month monitoring period.
Ive seen the surveyors report and photos as well as the drainage and geotechnical 
investigation reports. But none of these contain any explanation or reasoning to support the 
conclusion that the sole cause of ground movement in 2020/2021 was the damaged drain 
which was repaired and/or the one shrub Mr and Mrs H were told to remove. So, based on 
the evidence Ive been provided with, Im unclear as to how this conclusion was reached.
In addition, following the drainage repair and shrub removal, it seems Mr and Mrs H were 
told to visually monitor the area of damage for new or worsening cracking over a three-
month period. But I dont think such limited monitoring is sufficient to provide a persuasive 
conclusion of stability. 
I say this for two reasons. Firstly, a visual inspection carried out by laymen cannot, in my 
view, be relied upon to support, even on balance, that the movement had most likely 
stopped. And secondly, this visual monitoring was carried out for a short period of time, 
during the wet season, when swelling or heave (which, if anything, would probably reduce 
the size of open cracks) would be more likely than any subsidence movement. I dont find it 
entirely surprising that it took until the following dry season (summer) before further cracking 
became evident. So, I dont think it was reasonable for AA Underwriting to rely on 
Mr and Mrs Hs short period of visual monitoring to conclude that the cause of any new 
damage is separate to the previous. 
In addition to the above, AA Underwriting has pointed to the fact that there are areas of 
damage which are remote from the original cause. However, it also seems there are areas of 
damage in the same location that was damaged previously as well as the dropping of the 
floor slab in the locality of the drains. So, I dont think AA Underwriting can fairly rely on the 
fact that some damage is remote to conclude that there is most likely a completely separate 
cause either.
As it stands, I dont think there is sufficient evidence either way to confirm the damage from 
2022 is separate, or linked, to the earlier claim. So, in these circumstances, I think the fairest 
solution is for AA Underwriting to investigate the new issues under the previous claim. But 
should these investigations subsequently prove that the new issues are completely separate, 
AA Underwriting can, at that stage, insist that Mr and Mrs H raise a new claim with the 
appropriate insurer.
Should Mr and Mrs H be unhappy with AA Underwritings decision following the new 
investigations, they can raise any new concerns as a new complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must carry out suitable, and more detailed, 
investigations into the new areas of damage before providing a decision on whether the 
issues should be covered under the previous claim or not.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman