DRN-3024133
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc closed his credit card account without notice. 
Mr M says he received poor service from Barclays. Mr M wants to know the reason for the 
closure and wants compensation.
I am aware Mr M has a separate complaint with our service regarding his credit file so I wont 
be dealing with that here.
What happened
Mr M had an account with Barclays.
Whilst Mr M was abroad in September 2019, he realised his account had been closed 
because he tried to pay for something, and payment was rejected.
Mr M said he was shocked and inconvenienced by the closure. He told us he spent a lot of 
time on the phone trying to sort things out. He had to borrow money from family and friends 
whilst abroad which was embarrassing.
Mr M says that Barclays charged him interest in excess of £1,100.
Mr M complained to Barclays. Barclays investigated. They said they hadnt provided the best 
customer service and apologised. They offered Mr M £100 in compensation. 
Mr M was unhappy, so he complained to our service.
One of the investigators looked at the complaint. he thought Barclays had given poor 
customer service and had closed the account without giving sufficient notice to Mr M. He 
thought the interest and charges were incurred because of the balance on the account and 
wasnt a direct impact of the account being closed at short notice, so he didnt think Barclays 
had done anything wrong there. Barclays had offered Mr M £100 in compensation following 
a review. He thought the £100 already offered by Barclays was fair compensation for the 
inconvenience and poor customer service.
Mr M disagreed with the view and reiterated his complaint. He also mentioned his credit file 
had been adversely affected and that is the subject of a separate complaint with us. So, I 
wont be dealing with it here.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to 
provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a good reason to do so, 
this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate 
a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. 
Barclays have acknowledged that they should have given Mr M 60 days notice of the 
closure of his account and have offered compensation for that. 
Mr M has said he wanted to know the reasons for the closure of the account. Whilst he 
mayve expected to be given the reasons for the closure, Barclays isnt required to give him 
a specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say Barclays has done anything wrong 
by not giving Mr M this information  as much as hed like to know.
Interest and fees
Mr M has said he was charged in excess of £1,100 in interest and fees as a result of the 
account closure and would like this returned.
Having looked into this I agree with the investigator  the fees and interest were charged 
because of the amount in the account and not as a result of Barclays closure of the account.  
So, I dont think that the immediate closure of the account resulted in the payment of the 
interest and fees. So, I wont be asking Barclays to do anything here.
Customer service issues
Mr M has said that he received bad customer service from Barclays. Barclays have agreed 
with this and offered Mr M compensation for the distress caused.
Barclays have offered £100 for the distress caused to him when his account was closed 
immediately and the problems he had when dealing with this issue with Barclays.
The investigator thought that this was a reasonable amount to compensate him for the 
inconvenience he faced.
Having considered this I agree that £100 is a fair and reasonable amount. In deciding this I 
have taken into account that Mr M was abroad and had to make many phone calls to 
Barclays which was frustrating.
 Putting things right
I think the £100 Barclays has already offered is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation having regard to all the circumstances of this case.  
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I uphold this complaint.
I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr M £100 compensation for his material distress and 
inconvenience  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman