DRN-4141350
The complaint
Mr L complains that the conditional sale agreement he entered into with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) should be null and void.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr L entered into a conditional sale agreement with Santander to acquire 
a car first registered in October 2016. The cash price of the car was around £12,017. The 
total amount payable was approximately £14,576. Mr L made an advance payment of 
around £2,152. There were 60 monthly payments of around £207.  
Mr L said that, while doing some housekeeping, he looked through the agreement in 
question and found that there were some irregularities. Mr L said that his occupation was 
incorrectly listed on the credit agreement. And it seems that his name has been misspelled 
on the direct debit mandate. So, Mr L feels that the credit agreement in question should be 
treated as null and void because a representative from Santander hasnt signed it and 
because it contains incorrect information. Mr L also said he has been told that Santander is 
the "the owner" of the car. He said he had requested proof of this, but as nothing has been 
provided to him, he is withholding making his payments for the time being. As a resolution to 
his complaint, he would like his contract to be rendered null and void and for Santander to 
award him £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
In February 2023, Santander wrote to Mr L and in this correspondence they said that in a 
conditional sale agreement a person  such as Mr L  becomes the legal owner of the car 
when certain conditions have been met. They pointed him to the term in his credit agreement 
which explains that he will become the owner of the goods, if he complies with the terms of 
the agreement and when he has paid the total amount payable under it. Until then, they 
explained, the goods will belong to them even though he has their possession. They also 
explained that it was important Mr L understood the agreement he was entering into and its 
terms and conditions before signing the documentation. They said the dealership explained 
the financial details of the agreement and made him aware of the term of the agreement, 
enabling him to make an informed decision as to whether to continue and enter into the 
credit agreement. Santander said that Mr L signed the agreement and confirmed the 
information he had provided i.e. name, address, occupation etc., was correct at the time of 
signing.
In this correspondence Santander also explained to Mr L that his agreement stipulates he 
needs to keep the car in his possession and under his control. So, he cant sell, transfer, 
mortgage, lend, or give the car to anyone, as doing so would be a breach of the contract. 
They explained that Mr L was in arrears with his payments, and so he should make 
arrangements to cover these as otherwise non-payment may affect his credit file. Also, they 
explained the original signed copy of the agreement is not available, but a PDF of the signed 
signature page will constitute an original signed document. So, they have arranged for a 
copy of it to be sent to Mr L as requested. And, they concluded that they found no evidence 
of fraud or misrepresentation on their behalf and that there is no valid claim of unjust 
enrichment or conflict of interest.
Mr L was unhappy with Santanders response, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that no compensation was due to Mr L, because the 
discrepancies mentioned by Mr L havent caused him any financial loss or inconvenience. 
She was also of the opinion that the contract should not be rendered as null and void, as Mr 
L has had the benefit of the contract.  
Mr L disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Where evidence is unclear or in 
dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  which is to say, what I consider 
most likely to have happened based on the evidence available and the surrounding 
circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mr L acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement. These are all regulated consumer 
credit agreements. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. 
Mr L has brought to our attention the Companies Act 2006, Section 44, the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974, and the Bills of Exchange Act 1882 Part 2 Section 3. He said that bearing this 
legislation in mind, the contract should be considered null and void. This is because 
Santander didnt sign it. He only ever received a copy of it. And some of the dates on the 
contract dont match. He also feels that the contract has been misrepresented to him, as it 
only benefits Santander. He said that he will only pay money due under the credit agreement 
once he receives the original document signed by both parties in wet ink. So, Ive considered 
what he told our service, as well as the paperwork that is available from that time. 
Santander has provided our service with a copy of the credit agreement that has their 
signature on it. The date is a few days after Mr L signed it, but I dont find this unreasonable 
as, most likely, Mr L wouldve signed it first and then it wouldve been sent off for Santander 
to sign. There is also no requirement for signatures to be in wet ink. Also, Ive considered 
that, even if Santander didnt sign the credit agreement, this doesnt automatically render it 
null and void, which is confirmed by recent case law, and only a court could make decisions 
regarding the enforcement of the conditional sale agreement against Mr L. My role here is to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances before me. So, Ive though carefully 
about all the wider circumstances. 
Mr L signed the conditional sale agreement. By doing so, he confirmed that he had provided 
Santander with all the relevant information about himself and that all the information shown 
in the agreement is correct. He also confirmed that he has received a verbal explanation of 
the agreement and a written copy of the explanation document at the same time. So, I think, 
most likely, he was aware of the terms and conditions of the credit agreement, and he does 
appear to have thought that he had entered into a finance agreement of some sort. Bearing that in mind, even though his occupation was incorrectly listed, and his name has been 
misspelled on the direct debit mandate, I think he still expected to be bound to an agreement 
where he would have to make payments for the car. Overall, I think Mr L has not been 
prejudiced due to the incorrect information on the agreement, and/or from a missing 
Santander signature, as he has benefited from the contract. He received the car and was 
making the monthly payments for it, so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say he 
shouldnt be responsible for the amount owed to Santander under the agreement, including 
the remainder of the settlement and the current arrears. And I think it if fair for Santander to 
rely on the terms and conditions of the credit agreement. 
I know Mr L has mentioned that at the time of signing the contract everything looked correct 
so, he believes that somebody, somehow within Santander managed to alter the documents. 
But Ive not seen any evidence to convince me that this is what most likely has happened 
and, like I mentioned above, he has benefited from the contract. As such, I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to say he shouldnt be responsible for the amount owed. 
Also, Mr L has questioned who the owner of the car is, and Santander has mentioned that 
Mr L may have given the car to his friend. I think Santander has already provided a clear 
explanation to Mr L about this. But, just to be clear, the agreement stipulates that he needs 
to keep the car in his possession and under his control. His credit agreement explains that 
the car will not become his property until he has made all the payments due. And this is 
standard for any conditional sale agreement or hire purchase agreement. So, if Mr L has 
disposed of the car without settling his finance agreement, he is in breach of his contract 
with Santander.   
M L, when he brought his complaint to our service, has also mentioned other points. Among 
them he has mentioned that he thought Santander may have been irresponsible when they 
approved him for credit and that they have breached the data protection rules when they 
made a copy of the credit agreement that he has signed. But in this decision, Im only 
looking at the events that have been raised by Mr L with Santander around January 2023. 
So, this decision only includes the events that are addressed by the correspondence 
Santander sent to Mr L in February 2023. And I havent seen anything to show that Mr L had 
raised this with Santander before February 2023.
Overall, taking all the circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont think Mr L has 
been treated unfairly by Santander. So, its not fair or reasonable for me to require 
Santander to pay him any compensation or to take any action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman