DRN-1728031
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) retracted an offer of 
settlement they made in place of taking a claim forward under his legal expenses policy.
Where I refer to L&G, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in March 2020, part of which is copied below:
"Mr S made a claim on his policy for L&G to fund the legal costs of taking action against a 
hotel for a fall hed suffered whilst he was a guest. In response to this the hotel offered Mr S 
a complimentary two night stay as a gesture of goodwill. But when Mr S called to book, he 
was told the offer had lapsed as hed brought a personal injury claim against them, which 
had since been settled by the hotel. 
L&G initially declined the claim as it didnt think the incident had occurred within the policy 
period. Mr S disputed this; he said he cover with L&G for a number of years. It took L&G 
some time to clarify this so Mr S made a complaint about these delays. This complaint was 
upheld and L&G paid Mr S £150 compensation for poor customer service. It also 
acknowledged that Mr S did have a policy in place when the incident occurred, so it agreed 
to consider the claim. 
In early April 2019 L&G called Mr S and told him his claim had been accepted. But instead of 
paying solicitors to pursue action against the hotel, L&G said it would pay Mr S the value of 
his claim instead  which was £350. Mr S accepted this offer. 
The following day L&G called Mr S again. It said it had made a mistake offering Mr S the 
value of the claim. This was because it didnt think the claim was covered under the policy 
terms as the complimentary offer of a hotel stay didnt amount to a contract so it didnt fall 
within the contract claim section of the policy. Because of this it said it wouldnt be prepared 
to help him any further. 
Mr S believes he did have a contract with the hotel as they made an offer which he 
accepted. He complains that L&G gave him an expectation that he would receive a 
settlement on his claim. And because of that expectation, he proceeded to incur expenses. 
He doesnt think L&G had treated him fairly especially as he is registered disabled. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He referred to the policy terms which say there 
is cover to pursue a legal action directly arising fromyou buying or hiring goods or 
services for your own private use. And as Mr S didnt pay anything for the complimentary 
stay, it wouldnt be considered as buying or hiring goods or services. 
Whilst he acknowledged that L&G had made a mistake, our investigator said this was 
rectified within a day. So he thought L&Gs apology was enough to put things right. He said 
that if Mr S wanted him to consider any out of pocket expenses on top of the £350 he wanted to recover from L&G, hed need to see evidence of Mr S losses and the reasons 
why he incurred these.
Mr S says the complimentary stay was offered by the hotel in place of a refund of his original 
stay. So as hed paid for his original stay, he felt the claim did fall within the policy terms. 
Hes provided evidence that he purchased some clothing from a retail store for around £81 
on the day the offer of £350 was made to him which he feels he was able to do because hed 
accepted this sum in settlement. He also says hes tried to get a refund on the item but was 
unable to do so as hed removed the tags so the store wouldnt accept it. Mr S says this has 
caused him inconvenience as his disability affects his mobility and he had to make a return 
trip to the store when trying to return the item. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded the claim was covered. Nor did he think the clothing 
couldnt be returned a day later. As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
From the information Ive seen, the dispute arises from whether or not a claim against the 
hotel for not honouring a complimentary stay would fall under the terms of the policy. 
I dont think there is enough information for L&G to fairly conclude that a contract did not 
exist. Or that Mr S hadnt bought or hired goods or services when booking his initial hotel 
stay. I say this because it isnt clear from the papers what the terms of the hotels original 
offer were. Mr S says it was an offer of a complementary stay in place of a refund for his 
existing stay. So he indirectly paid money for what had been offered. Thats possible but its 
also possible the offer was in full and final settlement of Mr S personal injury clam. 
Whatever the case, I havent seen anything to suggest that these issues have been explored 
in detail, either with reference to the Mr S or the papers relating to the claim he made against 
the hotel.  
Given the policy wording and the circumstances of this claim, Im not persuaded that L&G 
shouldve made a decision on cover without the benefit of a reasoned legal opinion from a 
suitably qualified lawyer. So they should now do so.
I know Mr S is unhappy that L&G accepted his claim, giving him expectation of receiving 
£350. I agree that L&G has done something wrong here. But I think its mistake lies with not 
assessing the claim with the benefit of proper legal advice before coming to a decision on 
cover. Ive set out what I think it should do to put things right below. 
L&G has apologised and paid Mr S £150 compensation for its delays in progressing his 
claim. I think thats fair and I dont think they need to pay him anything further in respect of 
his claim. Thats because I think my award below adequately compensates him for what 
L&G did wrong in this complaint.
Finally, I know Mr S wants L&G to compensate him for the item of clothing he bought in 
reliance of the £350 he thought hed be receiving. This isnt something I think L&G is 
responsible for- particularly as Mr S had yet to receive anything from them in his account. My provisional decision
I'm currently upholding Mr S complaint against Legal & General Insurance Limited and 
direct it to do the following:
obtain a reasoned legal opinion from a suitably qualified legal professional in respect 
of whether Mr S claim falls within the policys terms and conditions. 
Mr S should be given the opportunity to provide the lawyer instructed with full details 
of his underlying claim, including the personal injury claim he made. 
If the advice L&G receives from the lawyer it instructs that the claim doesnt fall within 
cover, then it wont need to do anything further. If however the advice is that the 
claim should be covered, L&G will be entitled to decide whether it wishes to fund the 
claim or settle it by paying Mr S the claim value. 
As an alternative to the directions Ive set out above, L&G might prefer to settle Mr S claim 
entirely by paying him £350. If they do so, Id consider this adequate compensation and L&G 
wont need to do anything further."
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked the parties to provide any other comments or information they wanted considered in 
response to my provisional decision. Both Mr S and L&G  have responded. Mr S has said he 
has nothing to add. L&G has said they remain of the view that Mr S' claim is unlikely to be 
covered. But given the cost of seeking an opinion from a barrister, they consider it more 
economical to pay Mr S £350. 
In light of the foregoing and the fact that L&G's comments haven't made a difference to my 
decision, I remain on the view that Mr S's complaint should be upheld in accordance with my 
provisional decision. Once L&G pay Mr S £350, they will have discharged their obligations to 
pay fair compensation in accordance with my final award set out below. 
Putting things right
I direct Legal & General Insurance Limited to do the following:
obtain a reasoned legal opinion from a suitably qualified legal professional in respect 
of whether Mr S claim falls within the policys terms and conditions. 
Mr S should be given the opportunity to provide the lawyer instructed with full details 
of his underlying claim, including the personal injury claim he made. 
If the advice L&G receives from the lawyer it instructs that the claim doesn't fall within 
cover, then it wont need to do anything further. If however the advice is that the 
claim should be covered, L&G will be entitled to decide whether it wishes to fund the 
claim or settle it by paying Mr S the claim value. 
As an alternative to the directions Ive set out above, L&G might prefer to settle Mr S claim 
entirely by paying him £350. If they do so, Id consider this adequate compensation and L&G 
wont need to do anything further.
 
My final decision
I uphold Mr S' complaint against Legal & General Insurance Limited and direct it to comply 
with my award of fair compensation set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman