DRN-4290455
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) handled his chargeback claim.
What happened
Mr H bought a motorhome in an online sales auction in the USA in 2022 and asked a garage 
which Ill call RA to repair it so that it was driveable to allow him to ship it back to the UK. 
Mr H and RA entered into discussions on the work that was required and following that, Mr H 
paid RA $1,783.48 using his Lloyds debit card in October 2022 to carry out that work. RA 
sent Mr H their invoice which set out the work they say they did, as follows:
Remove and replace the upper and lower control arms on one side, including a 
suspension crossmember assembly. 
Remove and replace tie rods and/or ends. 
Diagnosis of a broken belt tensioner. 
Remove and replace the belt tensioner. 
Remove and replace radiator.
Mr H says RA didnt carry out the works as agreed and left the motorhome abandoned on a 
public road with the keys still inside. He asked a second garage based to carry out further 
work on the motorhome which he says was needed to rectify what RA had done to it. 
Mr H asked Lloyds to raise a chargeback for him on 26 October 2022, so he could recover 
the money hed paid to RA. This totalled £1,612.84. Lloyds submitted the chargeback on 
5 December 2022 and added a temporary credit to Mr Hs account for the amount he was 
claiming. 
Lloyds received a response from the merchant on 27 December 2022 challenging the 
dispute. Lloyds say they had until 27 January 2023 to challenge what the merchant had said 
and that they e-mailed Mr H on 6 January 2023 to advise him of this. Lloyds also say they 
told Mr H in their e-mail that theyd reclaim the money from his account and asked him to 
contact them within 10 days to provide any further evidence about the dispute so they could 
consider whether to take his claim further forward. 
Mr H says he didnt receive an e-mail from Lloyds. He contacted them on 24 January 2023 
as Lloyds took the money back out of his account and asked them to send the e-mail theyd 
sent to an alternative e-mail address. Lloyds didnt action Mr Hs request until 30 January 
2023 and subsequently told him they were out of time to continue with his claim.
Mr H complained to Lloyds saying they had delayed the chargeback despite knowing there 
were strict time limits on this and didnt provide him with an opportunity to provide further 
evidence after the merchant defended the claim. Lloyds accepted they had delayed the initial 
chargeback request but said this was still raised with the time limits allowed for under the 
card scheme. Lloyds said they didnt receive any evidence from Mr H before those limits 
expired. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt that, even if Lloyds had received Mr Hs 
evidence in time, his chargeback claim likely wouldnt have succeeded.  
Mr H didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Here, I am looking at the actions of Lloyds and whether it has acted fairly and reasonably in 
the way it handled Mr Hs request for help in getting his money back. This takes into account 
the circumstances of the claim Mr H made and how RA acted, but there are also other 
considerations, such as the scheme rules a bank has to follow and their own obligations.
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a 
payment a customer made to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute with 
the supplier and effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the customer. While it is 
good practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there is some 
prospect of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be appropriate 
for the bank to raise a chargeback. There are grounds or dispute conditions set by the 
relevant card scheme and if these are not met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed. 
Lloyds raised a chargeback for Mr H. So, in the first instance, I think Lloyds acted reasonably 
in that they initiated the potential avenue for Mr H to try to claim his money back. I would add 
though that Im not convinced Lloyds used the correct reason code for the chargeback. 
Lloyds have said they used the code services not received. However, bearing in mind the 
nature of the dispute, in that Mr H alleged that RA didnt carry out the repair work to the 
motorhome as agreed, and in fact made matters worse in what they did to it, the more 
appropriate code to have used would have been defective merchandise/services. 
However, this didnt make a practical difference as Lloyds did raise a chargeback and RA 
defended the claim. So, Lloyds and Mr H would have still ended up in the same position at 
that point. And while Lloyds did delay initiating the claim, it was still made within the time 
allowed for under the card scheme rules.
What happened thereafter remains a point of contention. Mr H feels Lloyds acted 
unreasonably by not asking him to provide further evidence to support his claim, and that 
they allowed the time limits for this to expire. 
I understand Mr Hs position here, however although Lloyds may have delayed matters more 
than perhaps they should have, I dont think this ultimately made any difference to the 
outcome of the claim.
I say this bearing in mind that RA defended the chargeback claim. Ive looked at what they 
sent to Lloyds, and I think it would be difficult to say that Lloyds should have then felt the 
evidence theyd been sent was clearly not good enough to the extent that they should have 
challenged it. And, had Mr H sent Lloyds further evidence, I think they likely would have felt 
the same way and not taken the matter any further. 
Mr H sent through pictures of the motorhome before and after the work RA carried out. 
However, bearing in mind the intention of the work was to solely make the motorhome 
driveable, I dont think those photos would have clearly shown to Lloyds that didnt happen. 
And, although Mr H sent in evidence of the work the second garage carried out, it would 
have been too much of a leap in my view for Lloyds to have realised or suspected that the work RA carried out, and the evidence they gave in response to the claim, was clearly 
lacking in credibility. The invoice from the second garage sets out the work they carried out, 
but it doesnt set out why that work was required, nor does it show that they worked on 
exactly the same areas of the motorhome as RA did. 
I realise Mr H will feel that there would have been no reason for the second garage to have 
carried out the work so soon after it was with RA, if the motorhome was repaired as originally 
intended. But, as Ive said, I think for Lloyds to have taken the matter further, they would 
have needed more than what theyd been provided to challenge RAs defence to the claim. 
So, I dont think that Mr Hs chargeback had any real chance of success because of this 
even though I think there were some errors in how Lloyds dealt with this overall. 
I should add here that Im not saying that Mr Hs claim is without merit. And it could be that 
he ultimately has a case against RA for what happened. However, the chargeback process 
is not a determination of an individuals legal rights and isnt a mechanism for determining 
the underlying dispute between Mr H and RA. Having considered the circumstances of the 
complaint, Im not persuaded that Lloyds handled Mr Hs chargeback claim in such a way to 
essentially prevent him from successfully reclaiming the money he paid to RA. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman