DRN-4271766
The complaint
The trustees of a trust, which I will call Trust A, complain about the actions of National 
Westminster Bank Plc. They are represented by Mr S (who is himself one of the trustees). 
Mr S complains that NatWests processes are not fit for purpose in respect of trust bank 
accounts. Specifically, he complains that NatWest wrongly placed restrictions on Trust As 
account, with the result that payments could not be made to the trusts beneficiary.
To resolve the complaint, Mr S would like NatWest to reimburse Trust A for the trustees fees 
in relation to this issue, and to pay compensation for the inconvenience of having to 
repeatedly provide the same information to NatWest. He would also like NatWest to confirm 
that it now has all the information it needs, and that it will not be placing restrictions on Trust 
As account in future. Finally, he would like NatWest to change its processes in respect of 
trust accounts.
This final decision relates to the trustees complaint about Trust As bank account only. 
However, the circumstances that led to this complaint are very similar to the circumstances 
that have led to other complaints Mr S has asked me to consider. I hope both he and 
NatWest will understand that that means there are also similarities in the way I have chosen 
to express my findings about his various complaints.
What happened
The background to this complaint is complex, and involves a great deal of correspondence 
between Mr S and the bank. I confirm I have read all the evidence both parties have 
provided, but Ill briefly summarise the situation as follows:
Mr S is a trustee of four trusts, each of which bank with NatWest. Trust A is one of 
those four trusts. (He is also a NatWest customer in his personal capacity, but his 
personal accounts are not directly relevant here.)
In 2021, he attempted to make changes to the mandate for three of those four trusts, 
including Trust A, and to access online banking. He and his fellow trustees attempted 
to provide NatWest with information about the trusts, and to satisfy it that they were 
who they said they were  but they experienced significant difficulties. NatWest 
accepted that it did not handle that matter well. The 2021 complaints were resolved 
in April 2022, following involvement from one of our investigators, and NatWest paid 
compensation in respect of Trust A.
Shortly after the 2021 complaints were resolved, NatWest requested further evidence 
from the trustees. It told us it did not receive the information it requested within the 
time limits it gave, so it prevented Trust As trustees from making withdrawals from 
the trust bank account. That meant the trustees could not make payments to the 
beneficiary of Trust A.
In March 2022, Mr S made further complaints (which I will refer to collectively as the 
2022 complaints). This complaint about Trust A is one of the 2022 complaints. Mr S 
explained that the beneficiary of Trust A was terminally ill, so it was particularly 
important that her payments were uninterrupted.
Mr Ss 2022 complaints were referred to a second investigator (not the one who 
looked at the 2021 complaints). The second investigator did not uphold the 
complaints. In relation to Trust A, he said that the systems NatWest uses and the 
information it requests is a business decision for the bank. He said NatWest had 
been clear about the information it required from Mr S and his fellow trustees, and 
that the bank had also been clear that it would restrict Trust As account if it didnt 
receive the information it had asked for. Given that NatWest was carrying out its 
regulatory requirements, our investigator didnt think the bank had done anything 
wrong  so he didnt think it would be fair to recommend compensation.
Mr S did not accept our investigators conclusions about the 2022 complaints. He said he 
had demonstrated, to both our service and to the bank, that he and his fellow trustees had 
provided all the documentation the bank had asked for. He said they provided that 
documentation by post, through the business profile portal or by a personal visit to a bank 
branch. He also said he does not and cannot accept that NatWest is entitled to seek 
information based on a Trust being a business.
Our investigator could not reach agreement between the trustees and the bank, and so the
2022 complaints were passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2023. Briefly, my provisional 
findings were:
NatWest did not treat the trustees of Trust A fairly.
To put the matter right, NatWest should pay the trustees of Trust A £750.
Nat West should state clearly what information it needs from the trustees, and give 
them one month to provide that information.
In more detail, I said:
My role as an ombudsman
I acknowledge Mr Ss belief that our investigator has been hiding behind rules and 
regulations. I am sorry to cause him further disappointment, but I anticipate he will 
be equally frustrated with me. I dont accept that I am hiding behind rules, but some 
of the requests Mr S has made  for example, that I consider whether the banks 
business practices are fit for purpose  lie outside of my powers.
I am an ombudsman, not a regulator. That means it is not appropriate for me to 
prescribe the maximum (or minimum) time periods between NatWest asking its 
customers for identity evidence. I cannot order NatWest to change its overall 
processes (including the fact it asks trustees to use its Business Profile Portal, or 
BPP), nor can I order it to change the way in which it trains its staff.
My powers are explained in more detail in the Dispute Resolution chapter of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook, which can be found online at 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/ .In addition, I am only able to consider complaints which have been properly referred 
to me, and which the respondent firm has had a fair opportunity to address. I cannot 
decide of my own volition to begin an investigation, even where I have good reason 
to believe that the customer involved would welcome my involvement. And I cannot 
prejudge or predetermine a complaint that has yet to be made.
All I can do is look at a specific complaint that has been referred to me, taking into 
account the circumstances of that particular case, and determine the fair and 
reasonable outcome in that one case.
That means I can look at Mr Ss complaint about the actions NatWest has already 
taken, but I cannot (yet) consider a complaint about any restriction the bank might 
apply in future. In addition, I do not think it would be appropriate for me to look again 
at any of Mr Ss 2021 complaints, because they have already been resolved.
Regardless of the merits of any particular case, I do not think it would be appropriate 
for me to attempt to issue a direction preventing a bank from ever applying a 
restriction to a particular account. I think the bank is right to say that it is legally 
required to regularly check that the information it holds about its customers is 
accurate and up-to-date. Given that I cannot possibly know what might happen in 
future, I cannot say now whether future events might lead the bank to be justified in 
applying a restriction.
I recognise that the limits on my powers are not particularly helpful to Mr S. From my 
perspective, it appears there is a cycle developing in which there is some contact 
between Mr S and the bank regarding the banks regulatory responsibilities, 
confusion ensues, and he subsequently makes a complaint. Regardless of whether 
the confusion is the fault of Mr S or the bank, I dont think that situation is satisfactory 
for anyone.
It seems to me that Mr Ss dissatisfaction with the bank is longstanding  and I do not 
think his concerns are likely to be resolved by any order that I might make in relation 
to the complaint in front of me now. I note he has suggested it make be necessary for 
him to issue some form of court proceedings in relation to Trust A if the Bank is 
going to insist that the Trustees must follow its totally inadequate process so that the 
Trustees will never be able to access the account. I ask NatWest to consider 
whether there is anything it can do to reduce the likelihood that Mr S will feel the 
need to take court action.
Did NatWest treat the trustees fairly?
NatWest has considerable commercial discretion in the way it chooses to comply 
with its regulatory responsibilities. Mr S has not at any point disputed that, nor has he 
disputed NatWests right to request information about its customers. His concern is 
about NatWest asking for information he cannot provide (such as the trusts website 
address), and about its for requests for information that he says it has already been 
given and then misplaced.
Mr S told us about a frustrating conversation he had with the bank in May 2022. Hed 
thought that the purpose of the call was to help him resolve all outstanding issues 
which might prevent the trustees access to Trust As bank account, but that turned 
out not to be the case.
Trust As assets are invested with another firm, and in July 2022 that firm asked Mr S 
whether the bank account details for Trust A had changed. They had not  but NatWest had refused to accept a payment from the investment firm on the grounds 
that it did not have all the information it needed from the trustees of Trust A. After 
contact with both Mr S and our service, and an explanation that the beneficiary of 
Trust A was terminally ill, NatWest temporarily removed the no operation marker on 
Trust As account.
Later in July 2022, Mr S told us that after another conversation with NatWests staff 
he believed he now understood what NatWest wanted him to do. But NatWest 
continued to send requests for information that Mr S says he has already provided.
In these circumstances, where there is a discrepancy between the evidence provided 
by Mr S and the evidence provided by NatWest, I find Mr Ss version of events more
persuasive. That means I am satisfied that he and his fellow trustees did provide 
identity evidence when they said they did. I am also satisfied that, to the best of their 
ability, they did comply with NatWests requests that they provide information about 
the trust.
I acknowledge that NatWest says it is not now in possession of the documents it 
needs. I accept that. But I think the two most likely explanations for the lack of 
documents are that either NatWest has misplaced the documents it received, or that 
NatWest did not tell the trustees what it still needed and so the trustees had no 
opportunity to provide those documents.
Mr S appears unclear as to what NatWest still needs  he thinks hes provided 
everything it has asked for at least once, and some of those things several times 
over. I am similarly confused; it is not at all clear to me what NatWest still needs from 
Trust As trustees. I am therefore unable to conclude that NatWest has explained its 
position in a way understandable to Mr S. I do not think the bank has done enough to 
tell the trustees what it needs in order to allow the trusts bank account to function as 
intended.
I also note that NatWest told us at the beginning of February 2023 that it intended to 
apply a further restriction to Trust As account soon because it does not have identity 
verification documents for a Ms W, one of the beneficiaries of Trust A. The bank 
suggested that she use HooYu to verify her identity, which suggests to me that it has 
not properly updated its records in respect of Ms W. Mr S told both our service and 
the bank that Ms W died in September 2022. I am satisfied that Mr S has already 
provided NatWest with a copy of Ms Ws death certificate, so unless the bank has 
misplaced that certificate, I do not understand what more it needs in respect of Ms W.
Putting things right
In this case, I think there are two things NatWest needs to put right. Firstly, it should 
ensure that its records in respect of Trust A are now correct. Secondly, it should 
compensate the trustees for the distress and inconvenience its errors have already 
caused.
It appears the parties are at something of an impasse in respect of NatWests 
records. Mr S says  and I accept  that he has provided the information NatWest 
requested many times over. He does not wish to provide the information again, 
presumably because he believes doing so will merely cause inconvenience to him 
without actually moving matter forward.
NatWest says  and again I accept its evidence  that it does not in fact have the 
information it needs to comply with its regulatory requirements. Regardless of why NatWest does not have that information, and regardless of whether the lack is 
entirely NatWests own fault, I am not prepared to make an order requiring NatWest 
to ignore those requirements.
To resolve the matter, I propose the following:
Within one month of Trust As trustees accepting my final decision, NatWest 
should write to the trustees setting out precisely what information it needs in 
respect of Trust A, and giving them a named contact and address to send that 
information to.
Trust As trustees should then be able to provide the information NatWest 
needs. I acknowledge that that will cause them further inconvenience, and I 
have taken that into account in the compensation I suggest below.
NatWest should give the trustees a month to respond to its information 
request. Until that month has expired, NatWest should not use the fact it does 
not have the information it has asked for to apply restrictions to Trust As 
account. (I should make clear that I do not intend to prevent NatWest from 
applying a restriction should it believe it needs to do so for some other 
reason, for example if it were to receive new information that caused it 
concern.)
I hope NatWest will choose to respond to this provisional decision by giving me a 
detailed explanation of the information it still requires. But it is not bound by this 
provisional decision, and it will not be bound by my final decision unless and until the 
trustees accept that decision.
So far as financial compensation is concerned, Im currently minded to award £750. I 
know that is much less than Mr S believes is fair, and much more than NatWest has 
offered. But in reaching that figure, I have in mind:
Trust As trustees have already accepted compensation in April 2022 in 
respect of NatWests errors up to that point. It would not be right for me to 
compensate them again for the same errors.
We do not usually award compensation at a complainants hourly rate; we do 
not value one persons time over anothers. I make no criticism of Mr Ss 
schedule of costs (other than where it covers costs incurred prior to April 
2022), but my award is not based on that schedule.
In addition, we do not usually make awards for the time complainants spend 
in making complaints, either to us or to the firm involved.
We do consider the impact that the businesss mistake had on the individual 
complainant. In this case, I think the distress of Trust As trustees would have 
been compounded by the fact they had only very recently had to make a 
complaint about a closely related issue, and that they (wrongly) believed 
NatWest had resolved the issue it had with its records.
NatWests errors caused delays to income payments to a vulnerable 
beneficiary.
Mr S will now need to provide documentary evidence to NatWest yet again. Had he been providing evidence for the first time, I would not have awarded 
any compensation. But I think the evidence suggests that NatWest has not 
been updating its records properly. Im satisfied that Mr S has made previous 
attempts to answer NatWests questions, and so I think the trustees should be 
compensated for having to do so again.
It is of course possible that, on receipt of this provisional decision, NatWest will 
conduct a thorough search and determine that in fact it does have the documents it 
needs after all. If it chooses to carry out a search, it may wish to start by looking to 
see if any of the documents it needs in respect of Trust A have been misfiled against 
other trusts Mr S is associated with.
The compensation I intend to award is based on the assumption that NatWest in fact 
cannot find the documents it needs, and Trust As trustees will need to provide those 
documents again. If that turns out not to be the case  and NatWest is able to 
reassure me that it does not immediately need anything further from the trustees  
then its likely I will reduce the amount of compensation that I think is fair.
Neither party accepted my provisional findings.
NatWest said:
It does not agree that £750 represents fair compensation.
Mr S has previously said that he is not willing to co-operate further with NatWest. He 
has therefore not mitigated his risk in this regard.
Following its contact with our service on 15 July 2022, it realised that Mr S had 
entered his firms address as his residential address in its portal. That was not a bank 
error. After rectifying the address it has been able to electronically verify Mr Ss 
identity.
Mr S did not tell its KYC team that Ms W had died. Ms Ws son notified the bank in 
relation to Ms Ws personal accounts, but the personal customer bereavement team 
would not have known to pass that information to the KYC team. That was the 
trustees responsibility, and they have never done so. However, NatWests complaint 
handler has now passed a copy of the death certificate to its KYC team so it no 
longer requires the trustees to provide that document.
However, it still needs clarity on the nature of the business and how the trust makes 
its money, and it strongly encourages Mr S to co-operate with its KYC team.
Briefly, Mr S said:
He has recently received yet another letter from NatWest asking him to log into its 
portal and complete one of three actions that might be set out there. Yet again he 
does not have online access to Trust As bank account.
He is not IT literate, and given his previous difficulties he is not prepared to use 
NatWests portal again. In addition, he is not prepared to allow anyone else from his 
firm to use the portal.
He is now suffering significant distress from what he describes as constant 
bombardment from NatWest, to the point that it is affecting his personal life.An award of £750 does not properly factor in the level of distress and inconvenience 
NatWest caused, nor does it provide compensation for lack of access to trusts bank 
account. It is also different to, and inconsistent with, the awards I suggested in the 
rest of the 2022 complaints.
NatWest continued to levy monthly charges whilst providing poor service, and those 
charges should be refunded.
Nobody has explained why it is necessary for him to provide his identity evidence 
separately in respect of each of the four trusts.
He considers that I have the power to award compensation both to him and to the 
beneficiary, and he believes I should do so.
He reminded me that I have discretion to make an award for costs where I believe it 
is fair to do so, and he considers that I should make such an award in this case.
He considers that NatWest has breached the rules in the Banking Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (BCOBS) and the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs). The 
BCOBS breach is actionable under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided detailed responses to my provisional decision. I confirm that I 
have read and considered everything they have said, but I have not responded to every 
point they have made. I intend no discourtesy by that; it simply reflects the informal nature of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service
I have reached the same overall conclusions as I did in my provisional decision, and I now 
confirm those provisional conclusions as final. Briefly:
NatWest did not treat the trustees of Trust A fairly.
To put the matter right, NatWest should pay the trustees of Trust A £750.
NatWest should state clearly what information it needs from the trustees, and give 
them one month to provide that information.
However, I would like to make some additional comments in response to the parties 
comments about my provisional decision.
I acknowledge that the award I am making here is different to the award I have made in 
other complaints Mr S has brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service. That is because 
the circumstances that led to this complaint are unique. I agree that there are similarities with 
the other complaints, but I am required to reach an outcome that I believe to be fair and 
reasonable in this individual complaint  and that is what I have done.
When I issued my February 2023 provisional decision, I thought Mr S had told both us and 
the bank that Ms W had died. He had certainly told us, but I am sorry to say that we dont 
appear to have passed that information on to the bank. I havent asked Mr S for evidence that he told the bank about Ms Ws death. That is partly 
because I dont want to delay this long running complaint any further, but it is primarily 
because I dont think that issue makes a material difference to the outcome of the complaint. 
Regardless of whether NatWest knew of Ms Ws death, I can see from the KYC teams 
records that that team knew in May 2022 that Ms W was terminally ill with a prognosis of 
three to six months. There is a note to say it will not be appropriate to ask id copies for her. 
It is not clear from the records whether it was Mr S or NatWest who concluded that it would 
be inappropriate to ask for identity evidence. But what is clear is the KYC team itself was 
aware of Ms Ws illness. In the circumstances, and given the banks previous actions with 
respect to Ms W, I think the HooYu request was inappropriate even if the bank did not know 
of her death.
I acknowledge that NatWest would like Mr S to provide clarity on the nature of the business 
and how the trust makes its money, but he has consistently said that the trust is not a 
business. He is therefore not going to be able to provide clarity on the nature of the business 
it undertakes. However, I see nothing to prevent Mr S from answering the second part of 
NatWests question. If, for example, the trust receives dividend income  or indeed income 
from any other source  he should be able to provide relevant evidence to NatWest. For the 
reasons given in my provisional decision, I still think it would be fair for NatWest to provided 
Mr S with a named contact and an address to sent that information to.
Some of NatWests notes suggest that it now needs to know who has replaced Ms W as the 
beneficiary of Trust A. As I understand it, nobody has replaced her. She was the life tenant 
of the trust, and following her death its assets will need to be distributed to the 
remaindermen. But again, I consider Mr S should be able to provide an explanation to 
NatWest.
I know Mr S will be disappointed that I have not looked more broadly at the way NatWest 
handles trust accounts. As I said in my provisional decision, I am an ombudsman not a 
regulator, and I have no power to carry out the review he would like. I am only able to look at 
this individual complaint, and it would not be appropriate for me to make any more general 
comments about how NatWest should treat trustees, or about how (if at all) it should link 
accounts for trusts with trustees in common.
I know Mr S believes I have the power to make an award to the beneficiary for distress that 
he has suffered, but Mr S is mistaken on that point. The beneficiary is not an eligible 
complainant under our rules, and I have no power to make an award for losses suffered by 
third parties. I accept that knowledge of the beneficiarys distress may itself have been 
distressing to the trustees, but I am also mindful that as solicitors the trustees were able to 
take action to mitigate the problems the beneficiary suffered (in that they could arrange for 
payments to the beneficiary to be made via their client account). I acknowledge that action 
would have caused some inconvenience to the trustees, and I have taken that into account 
in considering my award.
In addition, I do not have the power to investigate the way a bank has handled a complaint. 
Complaint handling is not an activity covered under our rules. The activities we do cover are 
set out in full at DISP 2.3 ( https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/2/3.html ).
I do have the power to make an award for professional costs where I believe it is fair and 
reasonable for me to do so. But I make no such award here. Mr S is bringing this complaint 
in his capacity as a trustee. NatWest is entitled to ask him, as a trustee, to comply with its 
KYC process. Given the circumstances here, I see no basis on which I could fairly require NatWest to reimburse his costs in complying with that process or in bringing his complaint to 
our service.
I also have the power to order a bank to refund charges, but again I may only do so where I 
believe that is a fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint. Here, NatWest has provided 
a banking service to Trust A throughout. There have been deficiencies in that service  
hence my award for inconvenience  but I see no reason why NatWest should not be 
entitled to charge for the services it has provided.
Finally, I confirm that I have taken the relevant rules and regulations into account before 
reaching the overall conclusion that a payment of £750 to the trustees represents fair 
compensation. I acknowledge that Mr S considers that I have reached the wrong conclusion. 
The trustees are not required to accept my decision, and if they choose not to do so it will 
not be binding on them or the bank. If they reject my decision, any legal rights they may 
have will not be affected by my consideration of their complaint.
Putting things right
I still consider that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for NatWest to pay 
the trustees £750 for the inconvenience they have suffered. In saying that, I have in mind the 
comments I made in my provisional decision. In addition:
Given the difficulties Mr S has experienced, I understand why he is reluctant to use 
NatWests portal. But NatWest is entitled to carry out its KYC exercise, and it has 
given him an alternative way to contact it. Ultimately, I consider it that is fair for 
NatWest to require him to co-operate with its KYC exercise in order to access Trust 
As money.
I acknowledge that NatWest considers that it set out its requirements clearly. But I do 
not agree. As I said in my provisional decision, at that time I could not work out what 
NatWest wanted from the trustees. That means I dont think NatWest had explained 
itself clearly.
Looking at everything that happened, and applying my own judgement, my opinion is 
that a payment of £750 represents fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience suffered by the trustees.
Within one month of the trustees acceptance of this final decision, NatWest should also 
provide Mr S with a named contact and give him an address to send the information it 
requires about how the trust makes its money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I order National Westminster Bank Plc to pay the trustees £750.
In addition, I direct NatWest to write to the trustees as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Trust A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman