DRN-3773095
The complaint
Mr R complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) handling of a claim 
made under his home emergency policy. Any references to RSA include its agents.
What happened
In July 2021, Mr Rs flat roof developed a leak. RSA sent out a roofer the following day. 
However, when the roofer sent by RSA attended, they said the flat roof had deteriorated to 
the extent a temporary repair wasnt possible. 
RSA declined Mr Rs claim. It said the policy only provided cover where there was missing, 
broken or loose roof tiles, and the cause of the leak at Mr Rs home was the felt. Mr R 
complained about this, along with his view the appointment should have taken place sooner. 
Mr R was also unhappy RSA agreed to send another contractor out, but then changed their 
mind. 
RSA responded to Mr Rs complaint, saying it considered it acted fairly in declining the claim 
based on the information it had. In addition to this, it noted it hadnt tried to recover the call 
out fee from Mr R that it usually would in these circumstances.
Mr R referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered it but thought 
RSA had acted fairly. As Mr R didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for the same 
reasons. Ultimately, the home emergency policy was only required to carry out temporary 
repairs to Mr Rs roof and only in certain situations. Ive set out the relevant term below:
Section 9  Roofing
Emergency repairs following missing, broken or loose tiles causing internal water 
damage
With the above term in mind, its clear that the policy would only offer a temporary or 
emergency repair if the damage to the roof was as a result of the roof tiles. There is no 
mention of cover provided for a felt roof.
RSAs roofer identified the cause of the damage to be the felt, not the roof tiles. Ive 
considered the report provided by their roofer and I find it persuasive, along with the images 
provided. They support the conclusion the felt had deteriorated. Based on the information to 
hand, Im satisfied RSA acted fairly and in line with the policy terms when it declined Mr Rs 
claim. Im not going to require it to take any steps to compensate Mr R in respect of his 
claim.
Its unfortunate RSA indicated to Mr R they would consider arranging a second inspection. 
This wrongly raised Mr Rs hopes, but against this background it seems from the call notes 
that RSA initially agreed this because Mr R was unwilling to accept the answer he had been 
given. I remain of the opinion Mr R was given the right answer about his claim by RSA. Ill 
also say here I dont consider the timeframe in which RSA sent the roofer out to be 
unreasonable, given they attended the following day. 
Ive considered the invoice provided by Mr R in support of his view that the felt wasnt the 
cause of the leak. The invoice notes that the leak is caused by missing, broken or lose 
tiles. I would have expected the invoice to detail which of these issues had caused the leak. 
I also note that the invoice has been provided by a company which doesnt identify itself as a 
roofer. I dont find it to be as persuasive as the report provided by the roofer, and Im not 
going to require RSA to carry out any repairs or compensate Mr R on the basis of this report.
While I appreciate my decision wont be the one Mr R is hoping for, I dont consider RSA 
acted unfairly in declining the claim. I consider is that it did so in line with the policy terms 
and Im not going to require it to do anything further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman