DRN-2897990
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Chubb European Group SE handled her claim on her home 
insurance.
What happened
Mrs M had home insurance with Chubb, to cover the contents of a property she was renting. 
In May 2019 there was a leak from a bathroom at the property that caused water ingress into 
a walk-in wardrobe, damaging a number of items of Mrs Ms clothing. After first pursuing a 
claim through her landlords insurance, Mrs M made a claim on her own insurance with 
Chubb in March 2020.
She explained that a number of items had been damaged beyond economical repair and she 
had been told by her landlords insurer to dispose of these items. She said the remaining 
items were damaged and estimated the total loss to be around £70,000 as there were a 
number of designer and bespoke items.
Chubb arranged for a loss adjuster to visit the property and assess the damage. They said a 
specialist would need to be appointed to assess the items of clothing and decide if they 
could be restored. Shortly after the visit in March 2020, the UK went into a national lockdown 
due to the coronavirus pandemic. This meant a revisit wasnt possible. And in the months 
that followed no agreement about how the claim could be validated was reached. 
Throughout the claim Mrs M made a number of complaints which Chubb addressed.  These 
included:
 She was unhappy that they had been unable to validate the claim.
 She said Chubb had contacted her landlords insurer to ask about the items she had 
disposed of, even though she hadnt given her permission.
 She was unhappy with the service she had received on a number of occasions.
 After doing a Subject Access Request (SAR) she found that Chubbs loss adjuster 
had a photo of her and her family saved on their files which she said was 
inappropriate.
Across its responses Chubb offered Mrs M £400 compensation for poor service and some 
delays. However, it didnt uphold other elements of her complaints. Unhappy with this, Mrs M 
brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Chubb had acted 
reasonably in trying to validate her claim, as it had offered a number of options to do so. She 
also said that Chubb had provided an explanation for why it had a photo of her family and 
had confirmed this had since been removed. And she was satisfied this was enough. Finally, 
she agreed there had been some poor service, but thought £400 was enough to make up for 
this. 
Mrs M didnt agree. She thought Chubb had lied about why it had the photo of her family on 
file and felt a more thorough investigation into this point was required. She also said Chubb 
had initially said it would accept the claim for the items she had disposed of. And that the 
initial visit from the loss adjuster should have been used to catalogue items, but a suitable 
expert hadnt attended. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it would be useful to start by explaining the remit of this service. Its our role to look at 
how a business has dealt with a complaint. As part of this we consider if it has got anything 
wrong. And where we find it has, we consider if it has done enough to put things right for its 
customer, or if it needs to do something more. In considering this, wed expect it to have 
acted fairly and reasonably and to have put its customer back in the position they would 
have been in if it hadnt got things wrong, or as close as possible. So, wed direct it to take 
action to achieve this if it hadnt. 
We provide an informal alternative to the courts, but we dont function in the same way as a 
court. It isnt our role to punish a business for doing things wrong. Nor is it our job to cross 
examine a business or determine the motive behind its actions. 
So when deciding on this complaint, Ive considered whether Chubb has got something 
wrong in its handling of the claim and if it has done enough to put things right. Mrs M has 
raised a large number of complaint points throughout the claim and complaint. As this is an 
informal service, I havent responded to every point she has raised. Instead Ive focussed on 
those I consider most relevant to the outcome Ive reached. However, I want to reassure Mrs 
M that I have considered everything shes said when reaching my decision.
Validating the claim
The crux of this complaint is that the claim Mrs M made to Chubb, still hadnt been paid 
when she brought her complaint to this service. Mrs M has explained that a large proportion 
of her clothes were damaged as a result of the water damage. And she has also claimed for 
damage to a mattress and other household items. 
When an insurance claim is made, its for the insured to show that there has been an insured 
peril  something covered under the policy. Here, Mrs M has shown there was an escape of 
water and Chubb has accepted the claim. However, in order for Chubb to settle the claim it 
needs to validate it. This means it needs evidence of the damage, the value of the items and 
whether a repair is necessary or if items need to be replaced. Insurers will usually only 
replace items that cant be repaired, so its reasonable that it validates the damage first in 
order to decide the appropriate course of action. 
In this case the validation has been made a little more challenging due to the coronavirus 
lockdown, as Chubb were unable to attend. And Mrs M has made some specific 
requirements about how she would like the process to be carried out. Shes explained the 
value of the items and the amount of time she has taken building the collection, so I 
understand why she is concerned about how the items are handled and catalogued. 
However, Chubb has offered a number of different options to validate the claim, in order to 
try and meet her requirements. This includes options to take the clothes away and inspecting 
them in a safe area outside the house or in the garage. While I understand Mrs M doesnt 
consider these to meet her needs, I have to consider whether Chubb has acted reasonably. 
And I can see it has proactively tried to find a solution that works for Mrs M. So Im satisfied that it has and I wont ask it to do anything further in this regard. 
Further I can see it has already agreed to pay for a new mattress and deep cleaning. The 
only reason this hasnt been paid is because Mrs M hasnt agreed while there are other 
outstanding items on the claim. It isnt unusual for an insurer to pay out for part of the claim 
separately, as they are validated. And by settling this part of the claim, it shouldnt impact 
how the other part is settled. So it is up to Mrs M if she wishes to accept this offer or not. But 
I wont ask Chubb to do anything further in this regard. 
Items that were beyond economical repair and disposed of
Mrs M has also complained that Chubb hasnt paid her claim for items that she had disposed 
of before bringing the claim to it. She says Chubb agreed to these when she made the claim 
and has since gone back on this.
Mrs M has provided a transcript of her initial phone call with Chubb, which I have 
considered. While the staff member said Mrs M had acted reasonably by disposing of the 
items, she didnt confirm that the items would be accepted as part of the claim. And it would 
be unusual for this to have happened on a first notification call for a claim. This is because 
insurers usually require further proof of the policyholders loss, so more information is usually 
required to validate the claim before it agrees to settling it. And since this call, Chubb has 
asked for evidence from Mrs Ms landlords insurer about the items. As Ive said previously, it 
is reasonable for an insurer to require evidence of the items it is settling the claim for, so I 
dont think Chubb has acted unreasonably by requiring further evidence here. 
Mrs M has raised concerns about Chubb contacting her landlords insurer about the items 
she disposed of. While I can see Chubb contacted her first to ask for consent to do so, it 
would have always needed to contact the other insurer, as this is the usual process where 
two insurers have been part of a claim. And, as it hadnt received the information it needed 
from Mrs M, I dont think it did anything wrong by also asking about these items in order to 
try and validate the claim. So I dont agree it has done anything wrong here. 
Photograph stored on file
Mrs M has raised concerns about a photograph Chubbs loss adjuster had saved in its files, 
that she was sent as part of an SAR. 
Our investigator asked Chubb about the photo and it explained that it was used to validate a 
previous claim but that the photo has now been removed from its files. I understand Mrs M 
has disputed this explanation as the date and location of the claim confirmed by Chubb was 
incorrect. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that the photo was used for anything other than 
validating a claim, so I think its most likely Chubb made an error when providing details of 
the previous claim. 
Further, it has now confirmed the photo has been removed. So, I cant see that there is any 
further action Chubb could take here. It isnt the job of this service to punish a business, but 
to ensure it puts things right. And Im satisfied it has here, so I wont ask it to do anything 
more in this regard.
If Mrs M has concerns about how her personal data has been handled, she can contact the 
Information Commissioners Office. 
Delays and serviceThere is a vast amount of correspondence provided as part of this claim. And within this, I 
can see there have been times when Chubb and its agents could have provided a better 
service. Some emails werent responded to promptly and call backs were promised and not 
provided. Further there was an occasion where a call was conducted unprofessionally, and 
the call handler joined another meeting while still on the call with Mrs M. Chubb has 
accepted it could have provided better service at points throughout the claim and it has 
offered a total of £400 compensation to make up for this. Considering everything, I think this 
is fair in the circumstances to make up for any distress and inconvenience caused by the 
poor service. So I wont ask Chubb to do anything more 
In summary, while I agree Chubb hasnt got everything right here, I think its done enough to 
put things right. So I wont ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint
.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman