DRN-3445784
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc allowed a third party to take out a 
mortgage solely in the third partys name, which has led to him losing his home.
What happened
Mr G says that he and another individual (whom Ill call Ms A) approached NatWest for a 
mortgage. He says NatWest told him he couldnt obtain a mortgage with them, as he had a 
county court judgment (CCJ) against his name.
Mr G says that he and Ms A agreed that she would obtain the mortgage in her sole name, 
and would add him to it once the CCJ expired.
Unfortunately, Mr G was the victim of an assault some years ago, which left him with a 
traumatic brain injury. He says that Ms A acted as his carer, and they shared an intimate 
relationship.
Mr G says that NatWest considered his finances as well as Ms As when she made the 
mortgage application, and he has contributed to the mortgage payments. He says Ms A 
refused to add him to the mortgage and has now evicted him from his home. He believes 
Ms A  and NatWest  acted fraudulently.
NatWest says Mr G isnt named on the mortgage  so although he has other accounts with 
it, he is not its customer for this mortgage  and it has no record of a mortgage application in 
his name.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought that it wasnt one our service could 
consider. She said that, as Mr G wasnt named on the mortgage, he wasnt NatWests 
customer in this instance, and therefore he wasnt eligible to bring a complaint to our service 
under the rules set by the regulator.
Mr G disagreed. He said he signed a deed of consent, which he thought made him 
NatWests customer. So the case came to me to decide.
I took a different view to the investigator  although I agreed that most of Mr Gs complaint 
was outside our jurisdiction, I thought there was one part we could consider. So I issued a 
provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the case.
My provisional decision
I said:
Mr G says NatWest told him and Ms A that they couldnt apply for a mortgage with 
him as a party, because he had a CCJ  which would mean that any application 
from him would be turned down.
He says that it was then decided that Ms A would apply on her own. That meant that 
he lost his property and he has now been evicted  even though he contributed to 
the mortgage payments.
But NatWest said it had no record of any discussions with Mr G  only of the sole 
application from Ms A.
On balance, I thought it was likely that Mr G had discussed a joint application and 
been told it couldnt go ahead  that matched with NatWests criteria at the time. If 
there was an initial discussion after which Mr G and Ms A accepted there was no 
point going ahead jointly, that would explain why NatWest has no record of an 
application  when one was never formally made.
That meant there were two separate applications here. The first one, jointly with Mr G 
and Ms A, which they were told would not be accepted and never pursued. And the 
second one, made by Ms A alone.
Mr Gs complaint about the second application  that NatWest should have protected 
him from signing over the property and its failure to do so had cost him his home  
was outside our jurisdiction.
Thats because Mr G is not an eligible complainant to make that complaint. We can 
only consider complaints from people who are eligible to make them. In this case, 
that means from a customer or potential customer of the bank. Mr G was not a party 
to the mortgage application and so not a customer or potential customer in respect 
of this application. 
Nor was Mr G eligible as someone who gave a guarantee or security for the 
mortgage. That was given by Ms A alone.
The fact that he signed a deed of consent did not make him an eligible complainant 
or mean we could consider his complaint. A deed of consent is a declaration from 
someone not a party to the mortgage that they agree the lenders interest in the 
property will take priority over theirs. It was only necessary because Mr G was not 
party to the mortgage or property title  meaning he was not the banks customer 
and did not give security for the mortgage.
And the fact that Mr G has bank accounts with NatWest doesnt make him a 
customer for this complaint either. To be eligible, a complainant has to have a 
relationship with the bank from which the complaint arises. Mr Gs complaint doesnt 
arise from his bank account, it arises from the mortgage hes not a party to.
However, I can consider the complaint about the first application. In applying to 
NatWest for a joint mortgage, and being turned away as not someone the bank 
would lend to, Mr G was a potential customer for that application.
There are no records of that application  unsurprisingly if it was an initial discussion 
that never went anywhere.
However, it was NatWests policy at the time that it wouldnt lend where there was a 
CCJ. 
In advising Mr G that there was no point in applying because he had a CCJ against 
him, NatWest gave him correct advice.
And it was fair and reasonable for NatWest to be up front with Mr G about that  so 
he didnt waste time and money on an application that would never succeed. This 
also explains why NatWest didnt offer Mr G a mortgage.
Once NatWest told Mr G about this, its not responsible for the decisions he and 
Ms A took, or what was or was not agreed between them. 
Theres an ongoing legal dispute between Mr G and Ms A, and thats the best place 
to resolve any issues about who is entitled to the property.
The responses to my provisional decision
NatWest accepted my provisional decision. But Mr G did not.Mr G said Ms A had lied and defrauded him and the bank should have protected him. 
Mr G said that a report had been prepared which showed that he lacked the capacity to 
make financial decisions. Mr G says that must mean that he also lacked capacity at the time 
of the application  so that needed to be taken account of.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered everything thats been said, including the further information 
Mr G and his representative have provided since my provisional decision.
Ive noted the mental capacity assessment  Mr G has sent us two very similar versions of 
the report  as well as the assessment of his other healthcare needs. 
I dont doubt that Mr G has many difficulties to deal with, and that things have been very 
hard for him over the years.
The capacity report does not say that Mr G lacks capacity. The report says that it is only 
assessing Mr G as he is now  it is not retrospective and cannot report on his capacity at the 
time of the mortgage application. But at the moment Mr G does have capacity to manage his 
own affairs, including his finances  though may need support with more complex decisions.
But this does not change the conclusion of my provisional decision. I cannot consider a 
complaint from Mr G about Ms As sole mortgage application  including about whether 
NatWest should have refused Ms As mortgage to protect Mr G  because he is not a party 
to that mortgage. 
The new evidence Mr G has provided does not say that Mr G lacked capacity to agree what 
to do with Ms A at the time. But even if it did say that, it would not mean that I have the 
power to consider this complaint, because it would not make him eligible under our rules. If it 
had said that it might be evidence about the dispute between Ms A and Mr G, but thats 
something to be raised in the legal proceedings. 
Mr G has asked that I delay my decision while he obtains a third version of the report, as he 
doesnt think it is accurate. But I dont think its necessary to do that, or that doing so will help 
me resolve this complaint. Im afraid that the report isnt relevant to the question of whether I 
can consider this complaint  whether or not he had capacity to make financial decisions at 
the time, he wasnt party to Ms As mortgage application and so isnt eligible to complain 
about it. 
I can consider a complaint about the earlier discussion about a joint mortgage application. 
But as I said, NatWest rightly advised Mr G that it couldnt accept a mortgage application 
from him because of the CCJ. This was true, and it was fair and reasonable for NatWest to 
decide it didnt want to lend to someone with a CCJ. What happened next, what Mr G and 
Ms A decided to do, and whether that was in Mr Gs best interests or not is outside the 
scope of what I can consider in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman