DRN-2122087
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded him £9,996.81 he lost to an investment 
scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when he wrote to the 
bank upholding Mr Fs complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so I dont 
need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Mr F sent £9,996.81 via online banking to an account controlled by a fraudster on 
2 September 2019.
He did so on the premise he was investing money with a legitimate investment 
company.
The company had in fact been cloned by the fraudsters. Theyd set up a website 
that appeared professional and genuine but was in fact fake.
The fraudsters had used details of a genuine investment firm to make the scam more 
convincing, including copying FCA registration numbers.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM). This is 
a voluntary scheme Lloyds has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that have 
fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a customer to be 
refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer has not met their 
requisite level of care. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider whether the 
customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
Lloyds did refund Mr F 50% of his loss when he reported the scam. It did so on the basis it 
hadnt provided him with effective warnings about scams at the point he made the payment.
Lloyds declined to refund the remaining 50% as it felt Mr F hadnt done enough to check the 
legitimacy of whom he was paying.
It also contacted the receiving bank to try to recover the money. But no funds remained in 
the recipient account. 
Mr F brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with Lloyds decision. One of 
our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld. 
Our investigator found Mr F had a reasonable basis for believing he was pursuing a 
legitimate investment. He noted the sophistication of the scam; how convincing the website 
was; and the fact that a genuine authorised/regulated firm had been cloned. He also noted 
that, whilst there were now warnings about the cloned firm on the regulators website, they 
hadnt been present at the time Mr F had fallen victim.
The investigator said Lloyds ought to have fully reimbursed Mr F at the time he made his 
claim and so should refund the remaining 50% of his loss in order to settle the complaint 
together with interest on the refund at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date it declined 
his claim to the date of settlement. 
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 28 April 2020 with a deadline for 
responding of 12 May 2020. That deadline has passed and, about four months later, the 
bank has still failed to respond. As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it.  
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested;
 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Lloyds to the investigators 
initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we 
already have and/or to take account of Lloyds failure to reply to the investigators opinion. 
Ive considered whether, under the CRM, Mr F ought to have been fully reimbursed when he 
notified Lloyds of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not he met his requisite 
level of care. I believe he did, for substantively the same reasons the investigator has 
already explained, so it would have been fair and reasonable for Mr F to have received a full 
refund at the time.
Although most of Mr Fs distress or inconvenience probably resulted from the criminal acts of 
the fraudsters, I think Lloyds could have done more to protect him from the impact of this 
given its obligations under the CRM and its statutory duty to co-operate with our complaints 
process (DISP Rule 1.4.4 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook). I therefore consider 
£300 compensation for distress or inconvenience to be appropriate. Im aware that 
compensation hasnt previously been awarded. But given where we are in the complaint 
journey, and the fact compensation for distress and inconvenience is a matter of discretion, I 
believe it should fairly be paid in this case and without reverting back to Lloyds for comment 
before awarding it.Putting things right
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr F ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM. I therefore direct Lloyds to pay Mr F:
the remaining 50% of the money he lost  i.e. £4,998.41  within 28 days of receiving 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Lloyds declined Mr Fs claim under the CRM to the date of 
settlement; and
£300 compensation for distress or inconvenience  also within 28 days of receiving 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision, failing which interest will thereafter 
accrue at the same rate until payment.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC and direct it to pay the redress Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman