DRN-1982212
The complaint
Mr C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly said it wont 
meet a claim hes made for damage caused to his property by a water leak. Mr C claimed 
under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C says he discovered a leak under a bath in his property. He had it fixed and the 
floorboards that got wet dried out. He didnt think it necessary to tell RSA about this, as he 
wasnt intending to make a claim. That was in 2017.
Mr C then let out his property, and in 2019 when he was moving some furniture noticed 
damage to a skirting board. He lifted a floorboard to investigate and found dry rot. He got two 
independent surveyors to look at the problem, and both said the dry rot had affected several 
rooms  and the cause was likely the leak from under the bath in 2017. Mr C contacted RSA, 
which agreed to look at this claim.
RSA sent a surveyor to look at the damage. They said the cause of the rot couldnt be 
established  so RSA said it wouldnt meet the claim.
Mr C complained but RSA didnt change its position. So he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Mr C needed to show the rot had been caused by the leak  and hed 
done that. But he also thought the rot had developed over time, and Mr Cs policy doesnt 
cover damage that develops gradually. He didnt, however, think RSA could fairly decline the 
claim if Mr C wouldnt have been aware the damage was developing, or likely to develop.
Our investigator thought that as the leak was a serious one  described as water running 
into the cellar below the bathroom for some time  Mr C should have taken steps to ensure 
the cellar was dry. He didnt do that and the dry rot developed because of this oversight. He 
thought that showed Mr C hadnt taken reasonable steps to keep his property in good order, 
so RSA could fairly say it wouldnt meet his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I think Mr C knew that the leak under the bath was 
serious  the waste pipe had become detached  and that water had been running into the 
cellar for some time. I say that because Mr Cs plumber reported this in his paperwork.
Mr C says he wasnt aware there was anything in the cellar that might rot  but I cant see 
that he checked. Instead hes assumed that because he thinks the area was well ventilated it 
would dry out. So Mr C wouldnt have known if there was water or rot affecting  or 
potentially affecting  his property. I think that is something Id reasonably expect Mr C to 
check even if there hadnt been a leak, as part of the ongoing maintenance of his property. I 
also think, given the circumstances, that even if Mr Cs plumber didnt specifically 
recommend checking the cellar, hed have been aware there could potentially be a problem.  
That means I agree with our investigators view that Mr C hasnt taken reasonable steps to 
keep his property in good order.  
Taking everything into account I think RSA acted reasonably when it said it wouldnt meet  
the claim.
I can see RSA paid Mr C £100 compensation for the way it initially handled the claim. From 
what I can see there was a delay, but I think the compensation is fair, and I wouldnt ask 
RSA to do more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman