DRN-1912897
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Vitality Health Limiteds decision to decline his claim for hospital 
cash benefit under his employers group private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D was taken to the accident and emergency department of his local hospital with an 
infected haematoma of his leg. He was admitted to a ward later that day and discharged 
eight days later.
Mr D later contacted Vitality to make a claim for hospital cash benefit. Vitality agreed to send 
him a claim form and asked him to provide his hospital discharge letter.
After receiving the discharge letter, Vitality advised Mr D he was not eligible to receive 
benefit because his admission was as a result of an emergency.
Mr D complained to Vitality. He said it had told him his claim would be covered.
Vitality issued a final response letter maintaining its decision to decline the claim. However, it 
offered him £75 compensation for giving him wrong information initially and thereby falsely 
raising his expectations.
Mr D was unhappy at Vitalitys response. He referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied 
that Vitality had acted fairly.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that he went to A&E, was assessed 
and x-rayed, and was then admitted to a ward. He considered that, under the terms of his 
policy, this meant his claim should be eligible. 
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the heading of NHS Hospital Cash Benefit, the policy states:
WHAT'S COVERED 
A cash amount payable for:
-eligible in-patient treatment that you choose to have as a non-paying NHS patient even 
though you could have had the treatment in a private facility
WHATS NOT COVERED
-If you are admitted to an NHS hospital in an emergency, no benefit will be payable for 
any part of the admission
Mr D was admitted to hospital after being taken to A&E by ambulance. Im satisfied he was 
therefore admitted to hospital in an emergency. This means his stay in hospital was not 
eligible for the policys hospital cash benefit. I dont find the policy terms unclear, as has 
been suggested by Mr D. I dont need to speculate whether he could potentially have 
received some of his in-patient treatment in a private facility under the cover of his policy 
because this would still not mean that his claim for hospital cash benefit was eligible.
Vitality advised Mr D wrongly when he first contacted it, even though it was aware of the 
circumstances of his admission, and this falsely raised his expectation that he would be 
entitled to receive the hospital cash benefit. This was unfortunate but Vitality has apologised 
for this error and has offered £75 compensation. Im satisfied that this is fair and Vitality 
doesnt need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman