DRN-1296804
The complaint
Mr H complains that Gain Credit LLC lent irresponsibly to him. 
Background
Between September 2012 and October 2018, Mr H borrowed four loans from Gain Credit. 
The lending history is set out below. 
 
LoanDate Taken Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest 
monthly 
repayment
1 02/09/2012 05/09/2012 6 £350.00 £175.00
BREAK IN CHAIN OF LENDING
2 11/08/2018 21/09/2018 6 £100.00 £30.70
3 06/10/2018 08/10/2018 6 £1,250.00 £399.88
4 14/10/2018 waived 6 £1,250.00 £378.41
 
Our adjudicator didnt initially think the complaint should be upheld. When Mr H didnt agree 
with that decision, another of our adjudicators considered the matter. This time, they thought 
the complaint should be upheld in respect of loans 3 and 4. They thought a proportionate 
check would have shown that Mr H had financial difficulties and that he would not be able to 
sustainably make his repayments. 
No substantive response was received to that second view and so the matter has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.  
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Gain Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Gain Credit should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Gain Credit was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
As I said above, early in the lending relationship, I think Gain Credit is entitled to rely on the 
information that is provided to it. But I have to stress that it must also take account of what a 
consumer tells it when they apply for borrowing. In this case, I think our adjudicator was right 
to treat this borrowing as two separate chains.  The evidence before me doesnt suggest that 
Gain Credit would have been put on notice that Mr H may have been in financial trouble. I 
cant say it did anything wrong in respect of loans 1 and 2. 
However, I agree with our adjudicator that by loan 3, Gain Credit should have probably done 
more. Mr H had repaid loan 2 on 21 September 2018 and just over two weeks later, he had 
applied to borrow £1,300, although £1,250 was agreed. I can see from the information Mr H 
provided that in the short time between applying for loans 2 and 3, his income had ostensibly 
increased by over £100 per month and his expenditure was said to have decreased by over 
£400. Putting all of these things together, I think Gain Credit should have been prompted to 
ask more questions about Mr Hs circumstances. 
Had Gain Credit undertaken those checks, I think it would have seen that Mr M was 
significantly indebted to other short-term lenders and he was making significant monthly 
payments towards those debts. He had also taken out another loan of £1,500 with another short-term lender in the days before loan 3 was agreed. All in all, I think it would have been 
clear to Gain Credit that Mr H couldnt afford to meet his obligations in respect of loans 3 and 
4. 
It follows then that I agree with our second adjudicator and I uphold the complaint about 
loans 3 and 4. Gain Credit will need to take action to put things right. 
Putting things right 
Gain Credit shouldnt have given Mr H loans 3 and 4.
A. Gain Credit must add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards 
interest, fees and charges on loans 3 and 4, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
 
B. It must calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. It must pay Mr H the total of A plus B.
 
D. Gain Credit must remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Hs credit 
file in relation to loans 3 and 4.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Gain Credit to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision 
I have partly upheld this complaint and require Gain Credit LLC to put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman