DRN-2735019
The complaint
Miss C complain that National Westminster Bank Plc are holding her liable for a loan she 
says she didnt take out.
What happened
Miss C has a current account, credit card and savings account with NatWest. 
On 20 June 2018, a loan for £2,100 from NatWest was taken out in Miss Cs name online. 
The money was paid into Miss Cs NatWest current account on 21 June 2018, which had an 
agreed overdraft limit of £3,000.
 
At the time the loan was paid into Miss Cs account the balance was just over £2,900 
overdrawn.
Between 21 June 2018 and 19 July 2018, the loan funds were spent via card payments 
using Miss Cs bank card and online bank transfers to other accounts, including to Miss Cs 
NatWest savings account and credit card account. 
In July 2019, Miss C contacted NatWest to raise a dispute about the loan. She said she 
hadnt applied for the loan or spent any of the money, NatWest looked into Miss Cs 
complaint but didnt uphold it. The business said theyd followed the correct procedures and 
dont think the loan was taken out fraudulently. The bank thought it was likely Miss C had 
spent the funds and noted she hadnt been able to provide an explanation as to how a third 
party obtained her online security details or PIN in order to make the transactions. The bank 
also didnt have any record of Miss C disputing the loan until July 2019.
Miss C wasnt happy with the banks response, so she complained to our service. Miss C 
explained that this had affected her financially and emotionally. And at the time was coping 
with the loss of her father.
  
One of our investigators looked into Miss Cs complaint. They asked Miss C some more 
questions about how she became aware of the loan and who could have got hold of her 
bank details. 
Miss C said she had no idea whod taken the loan out in her name. But it wasnt her. She 
said shed not applied for any loans and didnt know how to take out loans. She told the 
investigator that she hadnt shared her online banking information with anyone and didnt 
keep a written record of it anywhere. She said in June 2018 she used her fingerprint to log 
onto to her online banking. And said no one else had access to her bank card or knew her 
PIN. So, she couldnt explain how anyone else could access her bank account. Miss C said 
she discovered the loan had been taken out when she checked her online banking and had 
reported it to NatWest in July 2018 on more than one occasion by visiting her local bank 
branch.
The investigator concluded that it was likely Miss took the loan out. She said there wasnt a 
plausible explanation for how someone else could have obtained Miss Cs bank account 
information and gained access to her online banking. She also noted that a number of 
transfers were made from Miss Cs current account into her savings account. And noted that 
Miss C had applied for a number of loans in June 2018.
Miss C disagreed. She maintained she hadnt applied for the loan and disputed the 
payments from her account. She accepted she had applied for other loans but had been 
coping with a bereavement at the time, so it had been difficult to remember everything. She 
also said that she hadnt noticed the money coming into her account and thought she was 
spending her overdraft. So, its unfair for the bank to hold her liable for a loan she didnt take 
out.
As Miss C didnt accept our investigators conclusion its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the transactions, and the 
evidence. Both Miss C and NatWest have read the investigators view. So, I wont repeat 
every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure 
Miss C that Ive read the file, including all her comments and evidence.
 
Having done so, Ive considered whether I think Miss C took out or authorised the £2,100 
loan. And having looked at all the evidence Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities 
Miss C authorised the loan. And Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the personal and contact details provided to NatWest when the loan was taken 
out. And Im satisfied that whoever took out the loan needed to know Miss Cs bank account 
details. NatWest have confirmed that identification documents werent required to take out 
the loan, and only an electronic signature was required, so Ive not been able to compare 
this with Miss Cs signature. However, to take out the loan a fraudster would need to know 
Miss Cs home address, income, occupation and date of birth. Whilst I accept its possible for 
a third party to have knowledge of all this information and apply for the loan  I dont think 
thats the most likely explanation in this case. I say this because the loan was paid into 
Miss Cs bank account not a third partys account. I think its unlikely that an unknown third 
party would arrange apply for a bank loan and pay it into Miss Cs account when they would 
have no means of accessing the money.
Miss Cs  has been consistent in her explanations about her knowledge of the loan, and what 
happened to the funds once they were withdrawn. However, shes also consistently told us 
and the bank that she hasnt shared her banking information including her online security 
information, bank card and PIN with anyone else. And she accessed her online banking via 
her fingerprint ID. So, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary theres no plausible 
explanation for how someone other than Miss C could have gained access to Miss Cs 
account and made the disputed transactions.
Ive also noted that on 5 July 2018, £500 was a transferred from Miss Cs NatWest account 
into her NatWest savings account and £250 paid onto her NatWest credit account. Its 
unclear to me why an unknown third party would do this as theyd be no benefit to them in 
doing so. Based on the evidence Ive seen, only Miss C could benefit from these 
transactions. 
Ive noted that during the period of the disputed transactions there were undisputed 
transactions made by Miss C. And from looking at the banks records Miss C didnt report 
her bank card as lost or stolen, so I think its likely that Miss C was in possession of her bank card during the period of the disputed transactions. Shes also confirmed that no one else 
knew her PIN. So, when I weigh everything up, I think its more likely than not Miss C made 
the transactions she disputes and spent the loan funds. 
Miss C has told the investigator that she wasnt aware of the loan being paid into her 
account and thought she was simply spending her overdraft. Ive thought about Miss Cs 
most recent explanation of what happened  but on balance I find this explanation unlikely. I 
say this because at the time the loan funds credited her account Miss C was already close to 
her £3,000 overdraft limit. I also find it significant that at the time Miss C was applying for 
other loans from at least three other companies, which she has recently confirmed as 
genuine   I think its highly unlikely that Miss C would apply for three other loans at the time 
and that the loan applied for with NatWest was fraudulent.
Overall, Im satisfied that on balance Miss C consented to the loan with NatWest. And it 
follows I wont be asking the bank to do anything further here.
I would however remind NatWest that its obligation to treat a case of financial difficulty in a 
positive and sympathetic manner is an ongoing one; but Miss C also needs to be aware that 
that obligation wont necessarily prevent NatWest from seeking repayment in the future.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman