DRN-2605235
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy with Nationwide Building Societys response to her complaint after she
fell victim to a scam. It declined to reimburse the money she lost after being tricked into
sending £1,145.63 to an account controlled by a fraudster. Miss D is also unhappy with the
service she received from Nationwide during, and in the days following, the scam.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 1 February 2021. The background and 
circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was minded to uphold it were set out in 
that decision. I have reproduced the provisional decision in italics below:
On 3 June 2019 Miss D noticed someone was trying to call her from a withheld number.
Miss D says she doesnt take calls from numbers she doesnt recognise but then she got a
call from an 0800 number and so she looked the telephone number up on the internet and
discovered it belonged to Nationwide. Miss D says the number was also the same number
that was written on the back of her debit card. The 0800 number called again one minute
later, and so Miss D answered the call, thinking the caller was from Nationwide.
The caller told Miss D they were calling from Nationwides fraud team. She told Miss D that
her Nationwide accounts had been targeted by fraudsters and attempts had been made to
make expensive purchases in a shop.
The caller explained shed managed to block those payments but in order to protect Miss Ds
funds, theyd need to close her account and Miss D would need to move all her money to
another account that Nationwide had set up to protect it. Unfortunately, the caller was a
fraudster and it would appear that Nationwides number had been spoofed' so the incoming
call was made to look like it was coming from Nationwide.
Miss D says the caller knew some of her personal details and details about her accounts,
and she recalls going through some sort of security check that felt familiar to her. Miss D has
explained she was previously the victim of fraud (unauthorised spending from her account) 
which the caller seemed to know about - and she felt as though she was going through a
similar process  in that, she was talking to Nationwides fraud team and they were helping
protect her from losing her money. This, combined with Miss Ds satisfaction that the caller
was calling from Nationwide, convinced Miss D she was really on the phone to Nationwide.
Miss D logged onto her online banking app on her mobile phone, whilst still on the phone to
the fraudster, and proceeded to transfer £225.33 from her Cash Builder Book savings
account into her current account, and £754.71 from her Flex One regular savers account into
her current account. The transfers emptied both of her savings accounts.
At 17.09 Miss D transferred £945.63 to the new account details; clearing her current
account. The fraudster then asked Miss D whether she had an overdraft as those funds
could also be at risk. Miss D had a £200 overdraft limit and so at 17.14 she proceeded to
transfer £200 to the same account; again using her mobile banking app on her mobile
phone.
The fraudster assured Miss D shed still be able to access her funds by using her debit card
in branch or at a cashpoint, but that she should delete her mobile banking app to ensure her
account was protected. The fraudster said theyd be in touch later with instructions on
reinstalling the app, and told Miss D shed be sent details about her new account soon.
Around an hour later Miss D attempted to use her card in a shop but the transaction was
declined. She says she called Nationwide back on the same number that shed previously
been called from to let them know. It was during this call that Nationwide realised Miss D had
fallen victim to a scam.
Ive set out an extract of what was discussed during this call below. And it is clear from this
conversation that at the point Miss D contacted Nationwide she has no idea she had been
the victim of a scam. In my view this demonstrates just how persuasive and powerful the
social engineering techniques used by fraudsters can be:
Miss D: Hiya I spoke to a lady on the phone earlier. Basically, theres been someone trying
to spend some money on my account today which wasnt me. So, we transferred all of my
money over to another account which is within the same account. Its quite confusing. But
she told me Id still be able to access my money if I go to a cash machine or go into a shop.
Ive just gone into a shop to buy something, and it declined it.
Nationwide: Bear with me two seconds and well have a look. You said you transferred it
from one Nationwide account to another?
Miss D: Yeah
Nationwide: Are they both current accounts?
Miss D: I believe so. It was one that she sort of created.
Nationwide: So she created you a new account?
Miss D: yeah
Nationwide: Ok bear with me two seconds. If it had been suspected fraud it would have been
the fraud investigation team that probably would have handled this. But I can take you
through some security to see if I can see any notes on your account. Okay?
Miss D: Yeah (security was completed)
Nationwide: do you use the mobile banking app at all?
Miss D: yeah I do
Nationwide: Is that something that youre able to log into?
Miss D: No. Ive literally now deleted the app and everything.
Nationwide: So youve deleted everything in regards to the app?
Miss D: Yeah. She got me to transfershe gave me the details to transfer it to and I added
myself to a new payee. And then I transferred all the money that I had in my account to this
account and she said shed be calling me back and shell be sending me all the details
through. But another reason I was calling back was because in the same phone call I said Ineeded to update my billing address details and we didnt end up doing that, so I dont know
how to send it to my mums address because Im not living there anymore.
Nationwide asked Miss D for her sort code and account number  Miss D provided this.
Nationwide then tried to ascertain what kind of account has been set up by asking Miss D
some questions about the appearance of her card.
Nationwide: Bear with me Im going to load up your account and have a little look here to see
if I can see any notes. Because if its the fraud investigation team I wont be able to see into
their system. So that account youve just given me is a flex one account. So I can see that
isso theyve took that down to the maximum overdrawn limit of £200. I can see a flex one
regular. Is that the one that they opened for you?
Miss D: I believe so. All of my money has been sent to that account so that is the account I
believe is now my new account, Im guessing.
Nationwide: cos it looks like its been set up into a savings account. Now did theydid they
advise youd still be able to use the card sorry?
Miss D: yeah they said Id still be able to use the card in cash machines or shops but I cant
do any online shopping
Nationwide: ok just having a little look here. Was that earlier today you contacted us?
Miss D: I didnt contact you. You guys contacted actually me saying that there was funny
activity on my account or unusual activity. Someone tried to spend about £1000 or £2000 in
Apple.
Nationwide: What Im going to do is, Im just going to load up the recent activity in regards to
the card, just bear with me a moment, to see if I can see any restrictions on it at all. The
person over the phone gave you the details to transfer the money to?
Miss D: yeah
Nationwide: And did they take you through any security at all on your account?
Miss D: yeah
Nationwide: Okay what information did they ask for sorry?
Miss D: They asked like, my postcode. Just some personal details really.
Nationwide then asked some questions about when Miss D was called  Miss D gave them
the time the calls occurred.
Nationwide: Sorry Im just trying to learn as much because if I need to go through to the
fraud team they might ask us for some details so they can find that on the system. Im just
having a little look here.and the new account that they set up for you, did they give you
any details in regard to that?
Miss D: No they said that they would send me everything
Nationwide: Bear with me a moment. Are you okay for me to put you on hold? Im just going
to have a little look just to see if I can see anything on there. If not, I might need to speak to
the fraud team okay?Miss D: Yeah
Nationwide: Ive just looked at some of the details youve given me and looked into your
account. Now unfortunately, it does look like you may have been the victim of a phishing
scam. So, the person thats phoned you, it hasnt been from Nationwide.
Miss D: Okay
Nationwide: Okay so it does look like theyve managed to obtain your details over the
account
Miss D: I called back on the same number they called me on though
Nationwide: What they can do, they are very clever, they can mimic numbers through certain
devices so it does look like theyre calling from our number because it mirrors the number,
but they may be diverted from another number. It doesnt mean its from our self. When
Nationwide phones you we would never ever ever ask you to move your money over the
phone. The account theyve said they set up, its not an account we have on the system for
you. We would never ask you to transfer money over the phone and theres no record of an
attempted payment of £1000 on your account. It also looks like with the details that youve
given them, theyve set up a regular transfer into their account.
Miss D: right okay
Nationwide: So what I need to do, I need to take you through some steps so that our fraud
investigation team can look into this okay? So, I just need to complete a form with you, and
well get as much detail as we can get as possible.
Nationwide completes the form with Miss D asking her to confirm her contact information
Miss D: Sorry will I be able to get my money back?
Nationwide: So what well do is well pass this over to our fraud investigation team.
Unfortunately Im not trained in that department, so I dont want to give you any incorrect
information. So, Im going to go through the steps in regards to getting this passed onto them
and then someone from that department would be in touch with you.
Miss D: Will they be in contact with me today?
Nationwide: I wouldnt be able to comment on that, it depends how much information we can
get from the initial investigation.
Nationwide then read out a declaration to inform Miss D what the fraud investigation would
entail.
Nationwide: They said they were from Nationwide yeah?
Miss D: yeah (Miss D is upset)
Nationwide: And they didnt ask you to send any other further payments after the phone call?
Miss D: No
Nationwide: No, no problemAt that point, someone in the background (presumably someone with Miss D) can be heard
saying something about the number on the back of your card. Miss D responds to say It
seemed so legitshe was telling me about my account. The person in the background
seems to be reading out information about these types of scams to Miss D.
Nationwide: Ive submitted that form for you so what Im going to, so that I can get a bit of
information for you, is Im going to see if I can speak to someone in the fraud investigation
team to see if I can give me some insight into what the next steps would be for you okay?
Miss D: yes perfect thank you
Miss D is put on hold. The Nationwide call handler speaks to the fraud department,
explained whats happened and puts Miss D through.
Nationwide: X has explained a little bit about what happened. So what Im going to do first of
all is Im going to put a block on your online banking. Because did they have access to your
online banking or did you send the payments to them?
Miss D: They seemed to have access to everything in my account but I did go onto my
online banking and transfer it to them whilst they were on the phone but they also were
telling me about my accounts
Nationwide: Ok what Im going to do is, Im going to put you on another hold as I need to
phone up our head office to tell them whats happened and well get a case set up for you
now
Miss D: Okay sorry Im really paranoid now. How do I actually knowbecause Im calling
back on the number that called mehow do I know that Im speaking to Nationwide now?
Nationwide: If youve phoned on the number on the back of your card that will direct you
straight to Nationwide. Its not going to put you back through to the people phoning you.
Miss D: I did call back. They called off this number and Im now calling back on the same
number and its put me through to you guys that have now told me that this has happened. Is
there a name or something I can take? I just now, I just want to cover my tracks.
Nationwide: Its entirely up to you. You can hang up and phone back on the number on the
back of your card it will be the same number that youve phoned today. I just want to get this
stopped as quickly as possible for you.
Miss D: Can I just take your name? (Nationwide call handler provides her name and
previous call handlers name)
Nationwide: Ive put a block on your online banking so nobody can use it now. Im going to
call up to head office team now just now to see if we can get these payments stopped as
quickly as possible or they can contact the bank its been sent to. Ill just be a few moments,
Ill be as quick as I can.
Miss D: Do you have a reference number
Nationwide: I dont for this call, but I can give you my employee number
Miss D: Would that be okay? (Nationwide provides it)Miss D is put on hold. Nationwide calls through to head office, explains whats happened and
puts Miss D through to them.
Miss D: Hi, Ive basically had fraud done on my card today and Im basically calling to
confirm that first of all its actually Nationwide that Im actually speaking to this time. And if I
was speaking to them last time, that my investigation is actually an investigation. I basically
had someone call me today off the Nationwide number claiming it was Nationwide. They had
details of mine already. I then proceeded to give them more details and they told me that
someone had been spending money on my card today. Tried to spend like £2000 in Apple
and £1000 in other places, she kept listing them. So she created a new accounta new
bank account attached to my account. And made me transfer all my money, all my savings,
including my overdraft I had arranged. And then she was going to delete my bank account
due to, so fraud could stop happening on it and I could still use my card in a cash machine or
in stores. I then went to use the card about half an hour later in a store and it didnt work so I
called back. And then another reason I was calling back was to update my billing address
and she didnt actually get around to doing that with me, so I was calling back to update the
billing address. Then Ive been put through a process, I apparently have been put through to
head office where its going take 15 days to hear back even if I get my money back. But one
thing Ive already noticed while Ive been waiting to hear from you, that you even have music
on hold and when Ive been on hold all these other times I havent heard this music playing.
They just come on the phone every so often saying someone will be with you shortly.
Nationwide: Ok so the first time you spoke to somebody will not have been Nationwide. The
second time you spoke to somebody will have been Nationwide. And now you are speaking
to Nationwide. We always have hold music when you call through to us but if youre being
passed from one department to another, depending on which phone were passing you to,
there are some lines that dont have hold music so thats not unusual. Lets have a look for
you.
Nationwide takes Miss D through security
Nationwide: Do you use the Nationwide app
Miss D: I do but I did delete the app when transferring the money. They told me the app was
then not safe whoever is committing fraud on my card could be doing it via the app. After I
transferred this money they told me to delete the app and they would text me with an update
later today of when to redownload it. But obviously Im not expecting this text now. So I no
longer have the app.
Nationwide: Right ok.
Nationwide takes Miss D through security.
Nationwide: How did you open the account? Was it online, in branch or over the phone?
Miss D: My account Ive always had it, Ive had it for years. But this account that theyve
created today, theyve created it under my name and that was done over the phone with
them.
Nationwide: Just to make you aware that account they said they created, that wont exist.
Youve sent all the money to themto their own personal account. So that is the scam
effectively.  But this account youve always had, do you know how that was opened?
Miss D explains how it was opened and then passed security.
Nationwide: So yes it was Nationwide you spoke to. They have logged a case. We do nowneed to investigate that. We will try and stop the money from being withdrawn from this
persons account that you sent the money to. However if theyve already withdrawn that
money thats when things become quite difficult. If the money is gone, we cant guarantee
that we can get that back at that point unfortunately. This is one of those nasty scams that is
going around at the moment. The issue with sending money by bank transfer is that because
youve sent it and theyve not taken it, thats where it becomes difficult for us to just sort of
Miss D: But I obviously was under the influence as it is your number that called. When I was
on the phone I researched the number to make sure that it was Nationwide I was speaking
to. So the fact that it was your advertised number and the number written on the back of my
bank card confirmed it. I was more than happy to trust you as my bank.
Nationwide: But it wasnt your bank calling you
Miss D: I can understand that but (inaudible)
Nationwide: When you make a payment on internet banking, it runs you through a series of
questions. About has this person called you, it says we will never ask you to transfer any
money, we will never ask you to..
Miss D: Yeah I repeated thiseverything that come up on my phone I repeated this to who I
believed was a Nationwide worker because as I say it was a call coming from Nationwide. I
read out everything that come up. And she confirmed everything was okay. And like I say I
was trusting of my bank. Its the only bank Ive ever been with. Ive always trusted 
Nationwide. I did this today really believing I was on the phone to Nationwide for the fact that
it was the number calling.
Nationwide: I understand. We have that information on there, that information on our
website, in trusting in us, thats the information you need to trust, because that is the one
thing you can guarantee is us. Someone on the phone is going to say anything to you that
they can say to make you send that money. What they do is they dupe our phone number.
When we actually call you it wouldnt actually ever show up as that 0800 number. Thats the
number that you would use to call us but thats not an outbound phone number. Thats an
inbound number. So its a number you use to make calls.
Miss D: So would it come up as no caller ID
Nationwide: It can do
Miss D: Because I received at the same time at first I didnt pick up the phone until I
confirmed your number on the internet. And I received and Ive even got the call history for
this, I received two unknown calls, and one 0800 number, this number called, and then
another one which is the one I answered because by then I had confirmed that it was
Nationwide.
Nationwide: theyll try any which way to call you
Miss D: I do understand but its absolutely heart breaking to believe the bank that Ive always
been with and trusted in and always put trust and my money with. Ive just moved into a new
flat. I can now not afford it for the first month. I will now be evicted out of my flat.
Nationwide: I understand what youre saying but you say that you trusted your bank. But you
didnt trust your bank. Because the information we gave you, you ignored. You listened to
the person on the phone.Miss D: It was the number provided
Nationwide: I understand that
Miss D: So then why wouldnt I trust the person on the phone as much as Im trusting you
now because Im calling Nationwides 08 same number on my bank card, on the back of my
bank card that called me today and Im calling you now and trusting every word youre
saying the same way I was trusting the lady on the phone earlier. What difference do I know
between you and her. (Miss Ds voice breaks)
Nationwide: Well because Im not asking to you to send all your money to somebody.
Miss D: You can even see on my bank card I had fraud committed on my card about a
month ago and I had my bank reach out to me about that. I wasnt aware of it so again I
thought it was the same situation. (Miss D is audibly upset)
Nationwide: I understand. With card transactions we can protect them. We can call them
back. Like I said with bank transfers, because you send the money, and thats the reason we
put all of the information on the internet banking, thats the reason we go through all those
questions and give you all of that information, is because it isnt something that we can just
call back. I dont know how tobasically if weyou sending money to this person, we can
then go to their bank and we say thats fraud. They took that money under false pretences,
they claimed to be Nationwide, we want that money back. But then their customer of that
bank that you send the money to says thats not true I know this person. She sent me this
money because we are going into
Miss D: But Ive got the call history
Nationwide: Im not denying what youre saying. But it becomes your word against theirs. Its
us fighting that bank. Were saying, no our customers right. And theyre saying, no our
customers right.
Miss D: I can provide information of the time that I transferred the money as I was on the
phone to them. In that exact same moment, I transferred the money Im on the phone to a
Nationwide number. So to themtheyve got nothis person cant come up with anything of
how they know me.
Nationwide: Well that phone call wasnt recorded, they can say anything on that phone
call. Theres no way of proving otherwise
Miss D: But its your number though
Nationwide: I understand that
Miss D: Its not like its their 07 number, its Nationwides number
Nationwide: No absolutely. And Im not saying what they done is legal but Im just saying that
we cant just put our hands into somebodys bank account and take money out because
thats stealing then. We cant do that.
Miss D: As my bank, isnt there stepsI mean I had fraud done on my account before and I
remember it was in 2015. I had fraud on my account. Someone took £500 from my account.
And my bank, Nationwide, this same current account that I have now, the same, except the
last four digits and the expiry date. Theyre the only things thats changed. And they
reimbursed me the money.Nationwide: Yeah absolutely but that was a card payment. That was a card payment, not a
bank transfer. You see it on the news and on all these different channels. People have sent
their entire life savings, hundred of thousands of pounds, and it cant be gotten back
because its bank transferred. All I can ever say to you is that in future, and I know its a little
bit late, I appreciate that, but moving forwards just never, ever, ever bank transfer anybody
money that you dont know. Use PayPal
Miss D: Obviously I do understand that. I am careful with my money all the time. If it wasnt
Nationwides number this wouldnt have happened.
Nationwide: Absolutely. I completely appreciate that and unfortunately these people are
nasty, nasty people.
Miss D: I really did think it was Nationwide. The fact that it was your number. I thought that
likenot only did I think, other people that have banked with you, who spoken to had
complete trust in you as Nationwide, their advertised number has been hacked and
(inaudible). There must be some sort of reimbursement or something. Like what am I
supposed to do for the next 15 days. And at the end of those fifteen days, there is not even a
promise that Im going to get anything back. If it wasnt Nationwides number I would so get
it. And I wouldnt completely get but I just cant
Nationwide: The issue is we did give you all of the information, we did give you all of the
information to say to you this isnt us. We wouldnt do this. You should not transfer this
money. But you didnt listen to it. And Im not saying that I dont understand your reasons
why because I completely do. But we cant do anymore than educate you throughout the
whole process and thats exactly what we did. Unfortunately, the person on the phone
managed to convince you otherwise. But we cant control what a complete stranger is going
to do. All we can do is give you all the information and if you chose not to listen to that and
you chose to listen to the other person, it becomes out of our control at that point. All we can
do is inform you. We cant force you to do anything. We dont know what theyre going to say
to you. And I 100% sympathise with your situation. I really, really do. And I understand
exactly how youre feeling. But unfortunately with this type of scam, its very, very, very
difficult in terms of getting peoples money back. And that is why we put all that information
on the internet banking. That is why we say that we would never, ever ask youbecause we
know that these types of scams happen. Thats why we put it on our Twitter and our
Facebook
Miss D: Im not really down with social media
Nationwide: I understand that
Miss D is inaudible but clearly distressed
Nationwide: Thats why again, we put it on our internet banking because we know that
people
Miss D: I dont even use that. I use my mobile banking.
Nationwide: Yes I understand but it takes you through those questions doesnt it? You have
to answer do you know this person and you have to press yes or no.I cant remember the
exact format of it but
Miss D: I trusted the lady because of the number she was calling from which is the same
number on the back of my one bank card that I ownNationwide: I knowI knowI understand. But we specifically put on that, that we would
never ask you to transfer money. So at that point, thats the point where, I mean you should
always just hang up and then call us back and say I dont believe this, Id rather call you
back. That way I know Im 100% speaking to Nationwide. Because youve called us. I
understand. Im not saying I dont understand where youre coming from. I really do. But I
cant make any promises to you, other than what youve already been told Im afraid. Im
really sorry.
Miss D: Thats okay. Thank you for your help and I just needed a bit of reassurance which
youve been able to do.
Nationwide: No problem at all. I really hope that we manage to get the money back. I mean
was it quite quickly after it happened that you called us.
Miss D: Yeah . I went to the shop straight after the phone call, so I realised straight away
that the money didnt go through. So, they called me at 10 to 5. And I was on the phone to
them for like 30 minutes pretty much. So that would have taken it to 20 past 5 and then I
called backyeahI probably called back an hour later.
Nationwide: You called us at about quarter to 6, quarter to 7 sorry. Actually it was a little bit
before that it was marked that youd called. The saving grace in this is that I would assume
that because of the time that they called you, the bank that you sent the money to, they will
have closed. There is a maximum withdrawal limit of £500 which means that they could only
possibly have withdrawn £500 from their account if their bank was closed. Now if theyve
done that and then youve called us straight away, we then contact their bank and ask them
to block that account. So, I would hope that at least half of that money is sat in that account.
And if it is then there is a good chance that we can get at least half of that money back.
Because we can get back whats left in the account as long as the fraud case is approved
effectively.
Miss D: But then because you now know that that person had done fraud, the next time that
they had £500 in their account, its not theirs
Nationwide: No absolutely
Miss D: Can you not take it from them and give it back?
Nationwide: Unfortunately no it doesnt work like that Im afraid. I mean it may do. It all
depends on how the investigation goes. But if Im honest with you that is way above my
head. But what I do know is we will try and stop as much funds as possible leaving that
account. And the fact that they called you at 10 to 5 would indicate that the bank closes at 5
oclock which means theyd only have been able to withdraw the money at a cash point. And
I know that theres a £500 limit at a cash point.
Miss D: What time do banks normally close at the latest?
Nationwide: We, for example Nationwide, we close at 5 oclock most days, our branches. But
there is normally one day a week where we open until half five.
Miss D: Its probably on a Monday to be fair
Nationwide: No normally its mid-week because they had a staff meeting in the morning so
they open half an hour later and close half an hour later. I mean its likely that they would
have only been able toeven that, most branches have a policy where you can onlywithdraw £500 over the counter without 24 hours notice. So the chances are, unless theyve
logged onto internet banking and transferred that out, in which case its a little bit more
traceable at that point, then yeah. I mean obviously I cant promise anything. I am really
speculating. But in process of elimination, there is a chance that at least half of that money is
still sat in that account and hopefully we got to it in time to stop that leaving. If not all of it. It
might be that they were confident that you wasnt going to realise.
Miss D: I think to be honest they would have felt confident because I was confident. I was
really, by the end of the phone call, confident speaking to them. Coming off the phone call
confident. I literally said to my friend she was so lovely.
Nationwide: If they were confident then, and if they was, they may well have sat on that
money and expected it to be there for the next week or so, Ive seen it happen, so in that
case we may have been able to block the account before theyve withdrawn anything.
Nationwide explained a bit more about what the investigation would entail, including the
likely timeframe and when Miss D was likely to hear from them again, and then the call
ended.
Reimbursement
Unfortunately Nationwide wasnt able to recover any of the funds and it didnt think it should
reimburse Miss D. Miss D wished to remove the funds in her account with Nationwide
because of what had happened and she says she experienced difficulties following
misinformation from Nationwide staff about how to withdraw these funds in branch, which
caused her some inconvenience.
Miss D complained to Nationwide about the money shed lost as well as the difficulties shed
encountered in branch.
In its final response Nationwide explained that Miss D had been presented with warnings
when she made the payments  Ill set out what the warnings said later in this decision.
It explained that as it had warnings in place to try to protect her from this type of scam it
wasnt liable for her loss. It considered whether it ought to reimburse Miss D under the
provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) and didnt think it did.
That was on the basis it believed Miss D had ignored effective warnings and so hadnt met
her requisite level of care.
But Nationwide accepted it had misinformed Miss D about the branch withdrawals and
explained the fraud investigation team shouldve written to her sooner to let her know that it
wasnt able to recover the money shed lost. Nationwide paid Miss D £100 in compensation
for the level of customer service shed received here.
Unhappy with Nationwides response Miss D referred her complaint to us.
An investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She felt Nationwide ought to have
reimbursed Miss D as the warnings werent effective in the circumstances, and she was
satisfied Miss D had a reasonable basis for belief that she was making legitimate payments.
The investigator felt the £100 compensation Nationwide had paid Miss D was sufficient to
cover the distress and inconvenience caused by the misinformation about closing down her
account and the delay in informing her it wasnt able to recover the funds. But she thought
Nationwide should pay Miss D an additional £100 in compensation due to the way it handled
the call when Miss D first reported the scam.Miss D accepted the investigators opinion. Nationwide didnt respond and so the complaint
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer
even though they authorised the payment.
Of particular relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the
Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model for Authorised Push Payment
Scams (the CRM Code)  a voluntary code of practice which Nationwide has signed up to
and committed to follow.
And I have thought carefully about how the CRM Code applies to the payments Miss D
made.
The CRM Code
The CRM Code is a voluntary code issued by the Lending Standards Board in May 2019
following development and consultation by the APP Scams Steering Group - a group
established in February 2018 by the Payment Systems Regulator and made up of
representatives from the payment industry and consumer organisations, as well as
observers from regulators, government and law enforcement.
The September 2018 APP Steering Group Draft Reimbursement Model Code Consultation
Paper explained the background to, and aims of, the CRM Code:
1.2. In September 2016, the consumer body Which? submitted a super-complaint to the
Payment Systems Regulator (PSR) about APP scams, raising its concerns that
victims do not have enough protection. The PSR investigated the issue and the
concerns raised, and in December 2016 found that more needed to be done to tackle
APP scams. The PSR and industry undertook further work, and in November 2017,
the PSR published the findings and outcome of this work. This included a
consultation on the introduction of a Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). The
model sets out the circumstances in which payment service providers (firms) would
be responsible for reimbursing APP scam victims who have acted appropriately. In
February 2018, after taking the consultation responses into account, the PSR
considered a CRM  formalised into a voluntary industry code of good practice  is
an effective way to reduce the occurrence of APP scams and the devastating harm
they cause consumers.
1.5 The main aim of the code is to reduce the occurrence of APP scams from happening
in the first place, and lessen the impact these crimes have on consumers,
microenterprises and small charities (referred to as customers  see paragraph
3.24). The steering group considers that the draft code should achieve this. It
incorporates existing good industry practice for preventing APP scams and helping
these customers protect themselves from these crimes, while ensuring customers
remain vigilant.

3.10 The code should incentivise the parties involved to take action to prevent and
respond to APP scams where they are best placed to do so. Firms should be
incentivised to implement and use measures that effectively prevent and assist with
the response to APP scams, and customers should be incentivised to remain vigilant.
This should help minimise the number of APP scams as more is done to stop them
happening in the first place. When APP scams do happen, reimbursing the victims 
where they could not have reasonably protected themselves  reduces the customer
harm.
Those aims are reflected in the CRM Codes overarching provisions and in the structure of
the CRM Code itself, which sets our both the standards that firms like Nationwide should
meet and the circumstances in which a customer that has been a victim of an APP scam
should be reimbursed.
When should a customer be reimbursed under the CRM Code?
The starting proposition under the CRM Code is that a customer will be reimbursed if they
are the victim of an APP scam. But  except in cases where a customer is vulnerable to
APP scams  a firm may choose not to reimburse (at its discretion) if it can establish that
one of the limited number of exceptions to reimbursement apply.
This reflects the reimbursement principle, set out at various points within the APP Steering
Groups consultation paper and policy statement, that the victims of APP scams who have
met the requisite level of care should be reimbursed.
For example, the September 2018 draft CRM Code consultation paper explained:
3.46. The code reflects the proposed reimbursement principle that victims of APP scams
who have met their requisite level of care should be reimbursed
3.47. The code sets out a requisite level of care for customers to help protect themselves
from APP scams.
3.48. The steering group has been able to identify a number of matters that appear
essential to good decision-making by customers. They are set out in R2(1)(a) to (g),
explained below. These matters may turn on how firms behave towards their
customers, including the tools they give to their customers.
3.49. The steering group has designed the provisions governing reimbursement of victims
so that it is presumed that a victim will be reimbursed unless good reasons can be
established that the customer should not be  in other words, the customer did not
meet its requisite level of care
3.50. The provisions at R2 set out the circumstances in which a firm may choose not to
give a reimbursement, which may depend on the firms compliance with the
standards under the SF provisions.3.51. Just as firms will need to consider whether or not a particular standard under the SF
provisions would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam that took
place (see above at paragraph 3.28), in establishing whether a customer should be
reimbursed, firms need to consider whether what the customer did would have had a
material effect in avoiding the APP scam.
3.52. In assessing whether a customer has met the requisite level of care and should be
reimbursed, firms may take a number of matters into account. These are specifically
related to steps customers should take to help protect themselves from APP scams.
3.53.R2(1)(a) and (b) - firms will have to establish compliance with the effective
warnings and Confirmation of Payee standards before they can establish that a
customer ignored the tools given to help them protect themselves.
And in the 28 February 2019 Feedback on Responses to Consultation Paper, the APP
Steering Group said:
1.7 The Steering Group has concluded that where customers of PSPs who have signed
up to the Code meet their requisite level of care, they will be reimbursed. This
includes in the scenario where both the consumer and PSPs involved in the
transaction have met their expected level of care (the no blame scenario).
Under the CRM Code itself, the firms actions may be relevant to the question of whether the
consumer has met the requisite level of care required for reimbursement. But it is important
to note that it does not automatically follow from the fact that a firm has met the standards for
firms that the consumer may not be reimbursed. The question which determines whether a
firm may choose not to reimburse is whether the consumer has met the requisite level of
care?
The exceptions to reimbursement
The CRM Code says that (so far as the potential exceptions to reimbursement are relevant
to this complaint):
Principle
R1 Subject to R2, when a Customer has been the victim of an APP scam Firms should
reimburse the Customer
Exceptions
R2(1) A Firm may choose not to reimburse a Customer if it can establish any of the
following matters in (a) to (e). The assessment of whether these matters can be
established should involve consideration of whether they would have had a material
effect on preventing the APP scam that took place.
(a) The Customer ignored Effective Warnings, given by a Firm in compliance with
SF1(2), by failing to take appropriate action in response to such an Effective Warning
given in any of the following:
(i) when setting up a new payee;
(ii) when amending an existing payee, and/ or
(iii) immediately before making the payment
(b) 
(c) In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics of
the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the Customer
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: (i) the payee wasthe person the Customer was expecting to pay; (ii) the payment was for genuine
goods or services; and/or (iii) the person or business with whom they transacted was
legitimate.
(d)
(e) The customer has been grossly negligent. For the avoidance of doubt the provisions
of R2(1)(a)-(d) should not be taken to define gross negligence in this context.
I have not set out the other matters in full. But it is important to note that a firm may choose
not to reimburse if it can show any one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement apply
(unless the consumer was vulnerable to APP scams).
The application of the CRM Code to Miss Ds case  effective warnings
Nationwide says that it is entitled not to reimburse Miss D under the provisions of the CRM
Code because Miss D failed to take appropriate action in response the warnings it gave her
when she made two payments totalling £1,145.63 out of her account.
Given the provisions of the CRM Code, I must therefore consider:
1. Whether the warning(s) Nationwide gave Miss D were effective warnings given in
compliance with SF1(2)?
2. If so, whether Miss D ignored those effective warnings by failing to take appropriate
action in response to the warnings?
3. And if so, whether taking appropriate action would have had a material impact on
preventing the APP Scam which took place?
I will consider each question below. If the firm cannot establish that each requirement has
been met, then the exception to reimbursement does not apply under the provisions of the
CRM Code.
1. Whether the warning Nationwide gave Miss D was an effective warning given in
compliance with SF1(2)?
SF1(2) says:
Where Firms identify APP scam risks in a Payment Journey, they should take
reasonable steps to provide their Customers with Effective Warnings, which should
include appropriate actions for those Customers to take to protect themselves from
APP scams.
(a) Firms should take reasonable steps to make their Customers aware of general
actions that could be taken to reduce the risk of falling victim to an APP scam
(b) Where the Firm identifies an APP scam risk, it should provide Effective Warnings to
customers. This may occur in one or more of the following:
(i) when setting up a new payee
(ii) when amending an existing payee; and/or
(iii) during the Payment Journey, including immediately before the Customer authorises
the payment, before the Customers account is debited
(c) Effective Warnings should be risk based and, where possible, tailored to the APP
scam risk indicators and any specific APP scam types identified through the user
interface with which the Customer is initiating the payment instructions(d) Effective Warnings should enable the Customer to understand what actions they
need to take to address the risk, such as more appropriate payment methods which
may have additional protections, and the consequences of not doing so.
(e) As a minimum, Effective Warnings should meet the following criteria
(i) Understandable  in plain language, intelligible and meaningful to the Customer
(ii) Clear - in line with fair, clear and not misleading standard as set out in Principle 7 of
the FCAs Principles for Businesses
(iii) Impactful  to positively affect Customer decision-making in a manner whereby the
likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. This should include steps to
ensure that the Customer can reasonably understand the consequences of
continuing with an irrevocable payment;
(iv) Timely  given at points in the Payment Journey most likely to have impact on the
Customers decision-making;
(v) Specific  tailored to the customer type and the APP scam risk identified by analytics
during the Payment Journey, and/or during contact with the Customer.
I am mindful that in the September 2018 consultation the APP Steering Group said:
Prevention
3.32 These provisions are about helping customers to help protect themselves from falling
victim to APP scams. There are two main strands  Confirmation of Payee, which is
discussed further below and providing effective warnings to customers during
payment journeys.
3.33 The steering group wants to incentivise those with the expertise and ability to prevent
APP scams effectively, and to reduce its impact. Therefore, the code sets a standard
for firms to use their expertise to provide their customers with effective information, at
key stages in a payment journey, so that customers have a better chance to protect
themselves against being defrauded.
3.34. To do this, at SF(2) there is a proposed framework for firms to provide effective
warnings to their customers. As part of this, there are five minimum criteria (at
SF1(2)(e)) that effective warnings should meet. They should be:
Understandable  in plain language, intelligible and meaningful to the Customer;
Clear - in line with fair, clear and not misleading standard as set out in Principle 7 of 
the FCAs Principles for Businesses;
Impactful  to positively affect Customer decision-making in a manner whereby the 
likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. This should include steps to 
ensure that the Customer can reasonably understand the consequences of 
continuing with an irrevocable payment;
Timely  given at points in the Payment Journey most likely to have impact on the 
Customers decision-making;
Specific  tailored to the customer type and the APP scam risk identified by analytics 
during the Payment Journey, and/or during contact with the Customer.
3.35. A constituent element of an effective warning should be that the customer is given
clear guidance about action they should take to help avoid the risk that they might be
about to fall victim to an APP scam. The customer should also be made fully aware
of the consequences if they do not follow those actions and proceed with the
payment. That is, that they might not be reimbursed. The warning should also notify
the customer whether other payment methods which may be more appropriate totheir circumstances are available  for example where a customer is using an online
market platform that they might want to pay through that platform.
I am satisfied that under the CRM Code, whether or not a warning is effective in compliance
with SF1(2) will depend on a number of factors:
The warning must as a minimum meet the UCITS criteria (understandable, clear, 
impactful, timely and specific). As these are minimum criteria, it may be necessary for 
the warning to do more than just meet the UCITS requirements to amount to an 
effective warning  it would not be an effective warning if the information provided did 
not give the customer a better chance to protect themselves against being 
defrauded.
The warning should include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect 
themselves from APP scams and they should enable customers to understand what 
actions they need to take to address the risk of APP fraud, such as more appropriate 
payment methods which may have additional protections and the consequences of 
not doing so.
In this case Im satisfied Nationwide intended on providing Miss D with warnings that aimed
to prevent her falling victim to an impersonation scam; the type of scam Miss D fell victim to.
Common impersonation scams include ones like this where the consumer is contacted by
the bank or by other organisations such as HMRC, the Police and other law enforcement
agencies.
Its recognised that these types of scams have common features. For example, but not
limited to:
the consumer is often kept on the phone to the fraudster while they make the 
payment
it is common for fraudsters to spoof the number of genuine organisations
the consumer is often coached in some way  such as on how to make the payment, 
what to ignore, what to say to the bank if necessary
the scammer often instils a sense of pressure and fear, with consumers feeling as 
though they need to act quickly in order to protect themselves from harm
its common for the scammer to have already obtained information about the
consumers bank account(s), which adds credibility and persuades the consumer the
call is legitimate
Ive thought carefully about these features when considering whether Nationwide provided
an effective warning in line with SF1(2).
Miss D was presented with this warning once shed selected your own account or card:According to Nationwides systems, Miss D confirmed shed seen this warning by clicking
Im happy to continue.
Having considered the first warning very carefully, Im not persuaded it was sufficiently
specific and impactful to amount to an effective warning. Safe account scams like this are
common and a warning would have to be likely to break the trust and belief the fraudster has
created through social engineering to be impactful. I am not persuaded it is more likely than
not that the warning Nationwide provided in this case would positively affect customer
decision making in the way required by the CRM Code. In reaching that conclusion I am
mindful that:
The warning talks about scammers posing as trusted organisations. I accept that
Nationwide intended trusted organisations to cover banks as well as other
organisations that are often impersonated by fraudsters, but in the moment, when a
customer is convinced they are already talking to their bank, Im not persuaded the
language would be particularly impactful - a customer would need to recognise
trusted organisations included Nationwide itself and recognise the possibility that
they might be talking to a fraudster in circumstances where the fraudsters actions
had already convinced the consumer that they were dealing with Nationwide.
I am mindful that when Miss D was talking to Nationwide after the scam, the call
handler repeatedly told her that Nationwide would never ask her to transfer money.
The call handler said that this was what the warnings Miss D had seen had said, and
that shed ignored this information. But that is not the case, that is not what the
warnings said.
Im also not persuaded the average customer would understand that posing as a
trusted organisation could amount to someone managing to spoof the genuine
organisations telephone number. This feature and tactic is well recognised by firms,
but the warning didnt, in my view, do enough to highlight the level of sophistication
involved in posing  such as telephone number spoofing. This means that a
customer wouldnt be able to appreciate the risk that they might not be talking to a
genuine organisation, even when the callers number belongs to that genuine
organisation.
While the warning includes suggested steps to contact the organisation directly -
using the telephone number from their website to check the unexpected request is
genuine - I dont think this would likely be sufficiently impactful to customers who
had received calls from spoofed numbers, which as Ive said is common. Without
knowledge of telephone number spoofing, those customers wouldnt likely feel the
need to contact the organisation on their official number if they were already talking
to someone on a number theyd satisfied themselves belonged to that organisation.
Number spoofing is why scams such as this are so successful  this is something Im
satisfied Nationwide was aware of  and yet Im not satisfied this information was
shared within the warning.
As a final point, in order for the warning to meet the Code definition of an effective
warning, it should set out the consequences of not taking the suggested steps in the
warning. Im not satisfied this warning did this. Even though the warning explains that
the scenarios it covers are likely to be a scam, I dont think this is enough to warn
customers that they are at risk of losing their money. This is evident from the call
between Miss D and Nationwide where it would seem that Miss D didnt understand
the difference in clawing back funds after making a card payment against making a
bank transfer.
The second warning Nationwide provided simply said if anything doesnt feel right about this
new payee please stop this now.
Im not persuaded this warning was effective either. It does nothing to bolster the first. And a
customer would need to have some doubt about the legitimacy of the transaction anyway in
order for it to resonate with them.
In my view effective warnings would need to be impactful enough to overcome, or at least
attempt to overcome, the typical features of the type of scam it was seeking to prevent. Im
not persuaded this particular warning is impactful or specific enough to overcome the typical
features of an impersonation scam, for the reasons Ive explained.
Overall, in this particular case, I dont think the warnings Nationwide provided were strong
enough to break the spell of the type of scam Mrs H fell victim to and so Im not persuaded it
provided effective warnings in compliance with SF1(2). This means the effective warning
exception does not apply. But for completeness I have gone on to consider the other parts
of the effective warning exception test.
2. Whether Miss D ignored that effective warning by failing to take appropriate action in
response to the warning?
The question posed by the reimbursement section of the CRM Code is whether the
customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate action in response.
The way the effective warning criteria is drafted means that a warning does not necessarily
need to respond to every feature or nuance of a scam in order to comply with SF1(2).
This reflects the fact that the effective warning requirements are found in the standards for
firms and are prevention measures that firms are expected to take to reduce the occurrence
of APP scams by giving customers information to help them protect themselves from APP
scams.
And whilst the list of minimum requirements includes criteria that requires some connectionbetween the warning and the particular scam type to be effective, it is possible that a
particular feature of a scam will render a warning meeting the SF1(2) criteria ineffective in
reality for the individual customer in all the circumstances. This means a customer might
reasonably continue with the payment, notwithstanding the warning they have been given.
Given the background and context to this reimbursement exception and the over-arching
principle that lies behind the code  that the customer should be reimbursed except where
they fail to meet the requisite level of care, Im satisfied that in considering whether the
customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate action in response to
the warning, it is necessary  if applying the CRM Code correctly  to take into account the
particular circumstances of the scam in which the warning was given and of the customer,
and what action (or lack of) it would have been reasonable for a customer to take in those
circumstances. So in my view, appropriate action means considering whether the customer
failed to act reasonably in response to the warning.
If this were not the approach required by the effective warning exception, it could lead to the
perverse and unintended outcome, that:
A customer who is provided with an effective warning meeting the requirements set
out in SF1(2), but one that was ineffective in the particular circumstances of a scam,
would not be reimbursed despite the customer acting objectively reasonably
throughout.
A customer who received a warning meeting the criteria at SF1(2) could continue to
have a legitimate basis for believing the transaction to be genuine in all the
circumstances (including taking into account the warnings they were given) and so
would meet the requisite level of care required by the reasonable basis for belief
exception at R2(1)(c). But, it would be open to the firm to deny reimbursement based
on the same warning under the effective warning exception at R2(1)(a)
notwithstanding that the consumer had a reasonable basis for not acting on the
warning in the way intended by the firm.
I am also mindful that the Practitioner Guide to the CRM Code which was drafted by the LSB
to support Firms in achieving the requirements of the CRM Code would seem to support
that construction of the CRM Code (although I am mindful that the Practitioner Guide is not
intended to be prescriptive nor binding on firms).
The Practitioner Guide explains that in deciding not to reimburse a customer because they
ignored an effective warning, firms should have regard to the characteristics of the
Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam in determining whether it
would have been reasonable for the Customer to undertake the actions identified in the
warning. The practitioner guide goes on to say that where there is evidence to suggest that
a warning may have been ignored Firms should fully investigate the reasons why. It further
explains that in doing so, firms should have regard to the customers situation, and the
controls they have in place to encourage the customer to heed the contents of the warning 
such as using friction points such as delayed payments to give customers the time to
consider and digest a warning. And that they should be alert to any indications that the
customer may have been in a/is in a vulnerable situation.
The relevant passage says:
In refusing a claim for reimbursement, Firms should be able to satisfy themselves that the
Customer had disregarded the Warning that had been provided to them or failed to take
appropriate actions to validate the authenticity of the payment, where the warning instructed
them to do so. This may include validating account details being used for payments, or
where the scammer purports to be from a recognised organisation, the attempts made by
the Customer to validate the identity of the payment recipient. Firms should have regard tothe characteristics of the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam
in determining whether it would have been reasonable for the Customer to undertake the
action/s identified in the warning for example, whether the Customer was vulnerable.
Where there is evidence to suggest that a warning may have been ignored Firms should fully
investigate the reasons why. In assessing the reasons why a Customer may have ignored a
Warning, Firms should have regard to the Customers situation, and the controls they have
in place to encourage the Customer to heed the contents of the warning. This may include
for example, the use of friction points such as delayed payments to provide Customers with
the time to consider and digest the Warning presented to them. Firms should be alert to any
indications that the Customer may have been in a/is in a vulnerable situation and could
benefit from additional support. This could stem from an inability to comprehend the contents
of the Warning due to limited financial or mental capacity, reducing their ability to make or
communicate an informed decision.
Firms should consider this in the context of the Customers circumstances, including the
complexity and sophistication of the scam and the Customers relationship with the payment
recipient, when carrying out their assessment of whether a Customer is vulnerable under
R2(3).
I have considered whether Miss D failed to take appropriate action in response to the
warning(s) she received given the particular circumstances of the APP fraud she fell victim
to.
From Miss Ds perspective, by the time she saw the warnings she was convinced she was
talking to her bank. This was because:
the scammer had spoofed Nationwides genuine telephone number  which Miss D
had verified as being correct by checking the back of her card and checking it online
the scammer had attempted to mimic Nationwides security checks
Miss D was familiar with being contacted by Nationwides fraud team because shed
twice previously been affected by fraud on her account  she had increased trust in
Nationwides fraud team as a result
the scammer seemed to know information about her accounts which she thought
only Nationwide would know
I accept Miss D had been contacted unexpectedly and asked to transfer money and so she
ought reasonably to have identified with the warning to some extent. But based on what Miss
D told Nationwides call handler shortly after the scam, she did read the warnings and says
she read out everything to whom she thought was Nationwide, who told her not to worry.
Miss D doesnt remember exactly what the fraudster said in response, other than she
shouldnt worry. Miss D recalls they had a professional response for everything, and she had
complete trust in what they were saying given she was so convinced she was talking to
Nationwide. I dont think she acted unreasonably in the circumstances.
The call handler told Miss D that shed chosen to ignore Nationwide and trust the scammer
instead  but it is clear from Miss Ds submissions shortly after the scam that she was utterly
convinced she was talking to Nationwide during the scam. And trusted what the scammer
told her.
Its also clear from the calls between Miss D and Nationwide just how powerful the number
spoofing had been in enabling Miss D to fall victim to the scam. Miss D became increasingly
worried during the call with Nationwide that in fact they were the fraudsters and she became
concerned about who to trust given she called the real Nationwide on the same telephone
number the fraudster had called her from.Because, as Ive previously explained, the warning didnt contain any information about the
possibility of number spoofing, Miss D trusted everything the fraudster told her in response
to her queries about the warnings she was presented with. Im satisfied it didnt occur to Miss
D that fraudsters could use such sophisticated techniques in order to pose as a trusted
organisation.
Taking all of this into account, the appropriate action set out in the warning suggested
double checking the request by calling the organisation directly, using the number on their
official website. I think this wouldve seemed pointless to Miss D, even without additional
coaching and manipulation from the fraudster, given the steps she had already taken to
verify the caller was really from Nationwide.
Overall, I am not persuaded that Miss D failed to take appropriate action in all the
circumstances of this complaint. Im satisfied Miss D did not have any idea she wasnt
talking to her bank. Im also persuaded Miss D had taken steps to verify it was her genuine
bank (her submissions have been consistent with what she initially told Nationwide after the
scam) - steps that werent dissimilar to those suggested in the warning - and did as the
fraudster told her to do. Customers do tend to follow the instructions banks give them 
particularly when it comes to concerns about fraudulent activity on their account  this is
another reason why these types of impersonation scams are so successful.
In the circumstances and given how the scam unfolded, I do not think Miss D acted
unreasonably so as to fail to take appropriate action in response to the warnings she was
given.
3. whether taking appropriate action would have had a material impact on preventing
the APP Scam which took place?
In this case Ive found the warning was not an effective warning given in compliance of
SF1(2) and in any event Miss D did not disregard the warning by failing to take appropriate
steps in the circumstances. Had Miss D taken the steps it would have unravelled. But in this
case the consumer did not fail to take appropriate action.
The application of the CRM Code to Miss Ds case  reasonable basis for belief
Ive gone on to think about whether in all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in
particular the characteristics of the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the
APP scam Miss D made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: (i) the
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; (ii) the payment was for genuine
goods or services; and/or (iii) the person or business with whom they transacted was
legitimate.
Im satisfied Miss D had a reasonable basis for belief that she was making legitimate
payments following Nationwides instructions for the following reasons:
Im persuaded Miss D checked the telephone number of the caller online and against
the number on the back of her debit card which satisfied her the caller was genuinely
calling from Nationwide.
Im satisfied Miss D wasnt aware of number spoofing until after the scam
Miss D felt as though she was taken through Nationwides security process and had
previously received calls from Nationwides fraud team following fraudulent activity on
her account  this added to her belief she was genuinely dealing with Nationwide.
Miss D had an additional level of trust of Nationwides fraud team given shes liaisedwith them in the past and theyd prevented her losing money
The story the fraudster provided about the need to close Miss Ds account made
sense to her  she felt that because shed been the victim of fraud more than once, it
made sense that her account was vulnerable and therefore closing it and opening a
new one was the best way forward.
The fraudster seems to have obtained information of Miss Ds accounts which Miss D
believed only her bank would know
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Miss D did not make the payments without a
reasonable basis for belief that she was paying money into an account Nationwide had set
up for her.
And for completeness, for the reasons I have already set out I am not persuaded Miss D was
grossly negligent.
Conclusions
Overall, Im currently minded to conclude that Nationwide should have reimbursed Miss D
under the provisions of the CRM Code. Im not satisfied Nationwide established Miss D
ignored effective warnings by failing to take appropriate action and in turn failed to meet her
requisite level of care. Im also not satisfied Nationwide established Miss D didnt have a
reasonable basis for belief that she was make legitimate transfers.
In those circumstances, I think Nationwide should now fairly and reasonably compensate
Miss D by refunding her the £1,145.63 she lost as a result of the scam.
Impact on Miss D
Finally, Ive considered whether Nationwide should pay Miss D compensation for the distress
and inconvenience shes experienced as a result of Nationwides actions. In considering
whats fair compensation, Ive specifically thought about the impact of Nationwides actions,
rather than the impact of the crime itself.
Nationwide has already paid Miss D £100 to reflect the poor service it provided when it took
a long time to tell her that it hadnt been able to recover the funds shed sent to the
scammer, as well as the misinformation it provided regarding Miss D wanted to withdraw
funds from her account. I think £100 for those actions is fair compensation.
But Im also persuaded that Nationwides failure to reimburse Miss D under the provisions of
the Code has caused Miss D distress and inconvenience. Miss D was initially left without
funds to pay for her rent or other living expenses. This caused Miss D stress and worry 
during the call with Nationwide Miss D expressed she might be evicted - and shes told us
she had to borrow money from friends and family in order to get by for a while after the
scam. In these circumstances I also think Nationwide couldve handled the initial calls with
Miss D more sympathetically given she was audibly upset and had just fallen victim to such
a nasty scam, which completely emptied her accounts.
For these reasons I think Nationwide should pay Miss D a further £200 in compensation.
In my provisional decision I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or 
arguments that they wanted me to consider by 16 February 2021.
Miss D accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Nationwide remains of the view that it acted fairly and reasonably in deciding not to 
reimburse Miss D, but as a gesture of goodwill, and without admission of liability or fault on 
its part, it is prepared to pay Miss D the redress I proposed in my provisional decision. 
Nationwide has also made the following key points:
It disagrees with the provisional decision and doesnt consider it reflects the intention 
or wording of the CRM Code.
The decision suggests I expect the warning to be tailored not simply to the scam type 
but also to an individual aspect of the scam. For example, it says I expect the 
reference in effective warnings to trusted/genuine organisations to specifically 
reference that customers intended payee. This represents an elaboration of the 
CRM Codes standards, and tailoring the effective warnings to that extent would have 
an exclusionary effect in those scams where the payee is not referenced.
There is no expectation in the CRM Code or the practitioner guide that effective 
warnings must break the spell the scammer has cast. 
Each party has a key role to play in preventing scams and this is reflected in the 
expectation at R2(1)(a) that customers take appropriate action in response to the 
effective warning. And it suggests the starting point for determining what is 
appropriate action is the action recommended by the effective warning. Miss D did 
not take steps to act on the effective warning.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, which I have reproduced above, and which now forms part of this final 
decision. Im not persuaded by the further comments Nationwide has made, and I believe 
Ive already addressed them in my provisional decision.
However, I would like to briefly address some of Nationwides recent submissions.
In response to my provisional decision, Nationwide has said that it appears I expect a 
warning to be tailored to not just the scam type, but also an individual aspect of that scam. 
For example, it says I expect the reference in the warnings to trusted/genuine organisations 
to specifically reference the customers intended payee. For the avoidance of doubt, I have 
looked at how the warnings Miss D was presented with have fallen short rather than what 
wouldve made them effective warnings.
Nationwide has also said that there is no expectation in the CRM Code or the practitioner 
guide that effective warnings must break the spell the scammer has cast. But the CRM Code 
does explain that an effective warning should positively affect customer decision making in a 
manner whereby the likelihood of a scam succeeding is reduced. I explained that in order to 
be an effective warning, the warning would have to be likely to break the trust and belief the 
fraudster had created through social engineering to be impactful. And for the reasons Ive 
previously explained, I remain unpersuaded that is more likely that not the warnings 
Nationwide provided in this case would positively affect customer decision making in the way 
required by the CRM Code. 
In my provisional decision I set out in detail how I think the CRM Code works and is intended 
to work. Its clear Nationwide doesnt entirely agree with what Ive said about this, but I have 
nothing further to add. As a final point, I note Nationwide has agreed to pay Miss D what I set out it should pay her 
in my provisional decision. However, it has said this is a gesture of goodwill. For the reasons 
Ive already explained, Ive found that Nationwide shouldve reimbursed Miss D under the 
provisions of the CRM Code. In those circumstances, its fair that it pays what I said I was 
minded to require Nationwide to pay Miss D in my provisional decision. 
  
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ds complaint against Nationwide Building Society. I require Nationwide 
Building Society to:
refund Miss D the £1,145.63 she lost to the scam;
pay the respective account interest rate of the CashBuilder Book at the time, on the
£225.33, from the date the firm decided not to refund her under the CRM Code until
the date of settlement
pay the respective account interest rate of the FlexOne Regular Saver at the time,
on the £754.71, from the date the firm decided not to refund her under the CRM
Code until the date of settlement
refund any interest or charges Miss D mightve incurred on her current account due
to being overdrawn from the date Nationwide declined to refund Miss D under the
CRM Code to the date of settlement.
Pay Miss D a further £200 for the material distress and inconvenience she
experienced.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Katie Doran
Ombudsman