DRN-2584433
Complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc didnt do more to help him when he was the 
victim of a scam. 
Background
Mr C has an account with Clydesdale. In October 2019, he wanted to purchase goods that 
he saw advertised online. In order to pay for the goods, he authorised a £500 transfer to the 
sellers account. When they were received, he realised that they were counterfeit. The seller 
stopped responding to contact from Mr C. He notified Clydesdale that hed been the victim of 
a scam. 
Clydesdale said it didnt agree to refund the payment to Mr C. Hed authorised the transfer 
and Clydesdale followed his instruction by processing it. If Mr C was unhappy with the goods 
hed received, Clydesdale said he needed to take it up privately with the seller of the goods. 
Mr C wasnt happy with Clydesdales response, so he referred a complaint to this service. It 
was looked at by an investigator who didnt uphold it. The investigator said that Clydesdale 
needed to carry out account monitoring to identify suspicious transactions that might be 
fraudulent. But in the case of Mr Cs account, this £500 payment wouldnt have appeared 
suspicious.
 
Overall, the investigator didnt think Clydesdale had done anything wrong by not intervening 
to question this payment. He also thought that it had done what it could in terms of 
recovering Mr Cs payment from the receiving bank account. But as the money had been 
transferred on to a different account, there was nothing further it couldve done.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to review and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. I know that Mr C will be frustrated to learn 
that his complaint has not been upheld. I have no reason to doubt that he has been the 
victim of a rogue seller - but the question I must consider is to what extent Clydesdale should 
be considered responsible for not preventing him from falling victim to a scam and whether it 
shouldve done anything more to assist once Mr C told it what had happened.
It is common ground that Mr C authorised the payment of £500 even though, from what hes 
told us, he was duped into doing so by someone offering counterfeit goods for sale online. 
He didnt intend for the money to go to scammers but, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Clydesdale should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Ive looked at the statement data provided which shows the recent usage of Mr Cs account. 
Im satisfied that Clydesdale acted reasonably in not treating this specific payment as 
unusual, out of character or suspicious. I say that because in the six months before the scam 
payment, I can see Mr C made at least five legitimate transfers for similar or large amounts  
ranging between £180 and £930.
With the benefit of hindsight, we know that the £500 transfer Mr C made in October 2019 
was in connection with counterfeit goods. But from Clydesdales perspective, it wouldnt 
have had had any reasonable basis for treating the payment as unusual or out character nor 
to suspect that Mr C was at risk of financial harm. 
I can also see that it took reasonable steps to assist in the recovery of Mr Cs payment from 
the sellers bank account and that it acted promptly. Unfortunately, it couldnt do so 
successfully because the funds had since been transferred to a different account.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman