DRN-3069302
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited mis-sold his commercial 
vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M held commercial vehicle insurance through Atlanta for four years. He said that he 
bought the policy on the understanding that he was covered for business use. In 2020, Mr M 
wanted to take advantage of a scrappage scheme for his van. However, the scheme turned 
him down because it didnt think he was covered for business use, which was a requirement 
of the scheme. Mr M complained to Atlanta as he thought it had mis-sold him a policy. He 
said his policy covered him for business use in 2016 and 2017 but this was excluded on the 
2018 and 2019 policies. 
Atlanta said Mr M didnt take up the offer to renew his policies in 2017 or 2018 and instead 
bought his policy online via an aggregator site on a non-advised basis. Atlanta said, when 
the policy renewed in 2019 it did so on the level of cover Mr M had selected the previous 
year. So it didnt think it had mis-sold the policy. Atlanta said the policy did cover Mr M for his 
work and it offered write to the scheme to explain the level of cover provided by the policy. 
Mr M was unhappy with Atlantas response and brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought Mr M 
had chosen the level of cover he required, and Atlanta had sold him an appropriate policy. 
He thought it was fair and reasonable of Atlanta to offer to write to the scrappage scheme. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigator as he said the scheme was fully qualified to read the 
documents. He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M said that the policies he bought through Atlanta in 2016 and 2017 provided him with 
cover for business use. But he doesnt think the policies it sold him in 2018 and 2019 were 
suitable, as he feels they have a limitation which excludes business use. 
Atlanta sold Mr Ms policies in 2018 and 2019 on a non-advised basis. In doing so, it had a 
duty to provide him with information that was clear, fair and not misleading to enable him to 
decide if the policy was suitable for him. 
I can see that the Certificate of Insurance from 2017 says that Mr M is covered for business 
use, through an insurer Ill refer to as C. The renewal documents from 2018 indicate that 
Atlanta offered Mr M a new policy with C but Mr M chose to buy his policy through an 
aggregator website instead.   
Ive seen a copy of the question on the aggregator site which asked, How do you use your 
van?. The options next to this are:
 Carriage of own goods (inc commuting)
  Courier/Haulage
  Social domestic and pleasure only 
Atlanta isnt responsible for the wording on the website, but it established what type of policy 
Mr M wanted from the answers he provided. 
Ive seen a copy of the policy documents Atlanta sent to Mr M in 2018, after he bought the 
policy. The Statement of Insurance indicates that Mr M selected the first option on the 
aggregator site, as the box is ticked next to carriage of own goods (inc commuting). The 
Statement of Insurance then has a section which says, Please confirm class of use 
required. Under this it says:
Own Goods
Use only for social, domestic and pleasure purposes and haulage of own goods.
EXCLUDING hiring, racing, pace-making, speed testing, rallies, trials, 
competitions, any use on a racing track, use for the carriage of passengers for 
hire or reward or use in connection with any trade, business or profession.
This wording on the Statement of Insurance reflects the wording on the Certificate of Motor 
Insurance and clearly set out the level of cover that Mr M had selected so that he could 
check the policy was suitable. The renewal invitation, sent out in 2019, also set out that Mr M 
was covered for carriage of own goods and asked him to check his policy documents to 
ensure it still met his needs. 
Following the renewal in 2019, Atlanta issued the policy documents which also clearly set 
out the level of cover Mr M had selected on his Certificate of Insurance. I havent seen 
anything to indicate that Mr M let Atlanta know he was unhappy with the cover provided by 
the policy when it was sold to him in 2018 or at renewal in 2019.  
Atlanta has confirmed that Mr M was covered for business use, as he was covered to carry 
his own goods under a commercial policy. So, although the wording on the certificate wasnt 
acceptable for the scrappage scheme, Im satisfied that Atlanta sold Mr M a policy which met 
his demands and needs at the time he bought it based on the answers hed given on the 
aggregator site. 
I can understand why Mr M is unhappy that the scrappage scheme wouldnt accept that he 
was covered for business use. However, Atlanta said it was unable to change the wording 
on the certificate as it was produced by the insurer. Im pleased to see that Atlanta offered to 
write to the scrappage scheme to explain the level of cover given by the policy and I cant 
hold Atlanta responsible for the scrappage scheme choosing not to accept the wording. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome that Mr M was hoping for, but I think Atlanta provided 
information in a way that was clear, fair, not misleading and enabled him to decide if the 
cover was suitable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman