DRN-3823582
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc trading as Ulster Bank hasnt reimbursed 
him for funds he lost to an investment scam.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr F found a form for T online and was contacted by a broker. He initially 
invested £1,000 via one cryptocurrency exchange before the broker offered to support him 
with trading. Mr F provided the broker with personal information to set up an account and 
allowed the broker access to his laptop using AnyDesk, so they could carry out trades. He 
says he left the broker logged on to his computer and online banking while he went to work 
as he was told this was necessary for trading. £30,000 left his account in three £10,000 
payments over three days.
Mr F later received payment requests from two loan companies, as two £10,000 loans had 
been taken out in his name. From his statements we can see these loans were received and 
then paid to another genuine cryptocurrency firm. Mr F has explained that the broker used 
the personal information he shared to set up the cryptocurrency account. Mr F also received 
£10,000 into his account by a BACs payment, and this was also sent to the cryptocurrency 
firm. Mr F says he only wanted to trade with this £10,000. He says he didnt have access to 
the second cryptocurrency account.
Ulster Bank didnt agree to reimburse Mr F or uphold his complaint. It said that it hadnt 
made a banking error and he needed to take the case up with the cryptocurrency firms and 
the loan companies. Mr F came to our service and our investigator partially upheld his case. 
Ulster Bank didnt agree, so the case was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision in mid-November. I also partially upheld the case, my 
provisional findings were:
Im in agreement with the investigator that the first payment Mr F made towards this 
scam didnt warrant an intervention by Ulster Bank. A bank has a duty to protect its 
customers from fraud and intervene where theres reasonable grounds to believe 
someone may be the victim of fraud. But I dont consider this payment that out of 
character or of a value significant enough to say Ulster Bank needed to block it until it 
had investigated it further.
However, Mr F then sends three £10,000 payments. There are substantial in value 
considering his other account activity and are very unusual for him. Ulster Bank has 
said that its common for people to pay out large sums when they receive large sums. 
And we can see Mr F received a £10,000 credit plus the two loans before making 
these payments. However, considering Mr F was paying a cryptocurrency firm, this 
combined with the high values and unusual activity on his account shouldve 
prompted an intervention from Ulster Bank. So I think it should temporarily blocked 
the first £10,000 payment and contacted Mr F. 
Taking Mr Fs testimony at face value, he was at work and unaware money was 
being borrowed to fund the cryptocurrency payments. And as Ive set out above, hed 
allowed a third-party access to his computer and banking during this time. 
Considering what was happening, Im satisfied even the simplest of questioning by 
Ulster bank wouldve unravelled this scam. There are a number of red flags for the 
bank here, whether its the use of AnyDesk, a third-party needing access specifically 
to online banking or the loans being taken out. This means I do think Ulster Bank has 
failed in its duty in this case and if it had taken the right steps, it couldve prevented 
all three £10,000 payment leaving Mr Fs account.
However, I then have to consider what responsibility, if any, Mr F should bear for 
what happened. Hes has explained the trust he had in the broker and so why he did 
what he did. I appreciate that individuals involved in these types of scams use 
sophisticated techniques to build trust and a relationship with their victim. However I 
cant ignore what should have been an apparent risk to Mr F, with him sharing so 
much personal information with an unknown third party, alongside allowing them 
unmonitored access to his computer and online banking. Mr F has acknowledged 
that he did give the broker access to his banking so that they could invest his money 
 so he has authorised this access. But he didnt do research into the firm before 
allowing this. I have found mixed reviews for T from before Mr F invested, but some 
do strongly indicate this is a scam.
Its also of note that Mr Fs testimony has varied in parts throughout this case. Weve 
been unable to establish exactly where the £10,000 BACs payment came from. And 
a few different versions have been given for when he found out about, and 
subsequently complained about, the loans. And we havent been able to determine 
what, if any, steps have been taken by the lenders in relation to Mr Fs complaints.
Mr Fs account also shows that the money was moved into and out of his account 
over a period of time. Both loans show on Mr Fs statement on the 8 February, but 
the payments were actually sent by the loan firms on 7 February. The £10,000 BACs 
payment is dated 6 February. And the payments leaving the account to the 
cryptocurrency firm are 2x£10,000 on 7 February (showing on 8 February) and 
£10,000 on 9 February.
It's unclear how the broker remained signed into Mr Fs online banking for at least 
two days, these systems are designed to time out with inactivity. So either the broker 
remained active for at least two days  which seems very improbable; Mr F needed 
to pass his full credentials to the broker so they could sign in and out as they wished 
 which isnt what hes suggested; or Mr F signed the broker back in each day.
On 7 February a large amount of money moved in and out of Mr Fs account. If I 
accept his testimony  leaving the broker signed in while he was at work  I can 
appreciate how he wasnt aware the loans were taken and that money was moved to 
the cryptocurrency exchange. This did all happen very quickly. However I consider it 
appropriate to make a deduction for contributory negligence on these first two 
payments.
As above, Mr F shouldve been aware there was a risk associated with what he was 
doing. So while I accept these payments ought to have triggered on Ulster Banks 
systems, I think a 50% deduction is fair in this case for the first two payments. As 
above, there are mixed reviews for T and a published article which suggests its a 
scam firm before he invested. This wouldve come up on an internet search. And 
even without seeing this, had Mr F simply watched the broker while they were in his 
banking, he wouldve seen the borrowed funds come in and/or the first payment being made. And then he couldve signed out of his banking, contacted Ulster Bank 
and prevented at least some of the money leaving  so it could be returned to the 
lenders, reducing his losses. So Im satisfied he should share responsibility with 
Ulster Bank for the funds sent on 7 February.
Coming to the third payment on 9 February, I cant agree any of this should be 
refunded to Mr F. This payment didnt leave his account for several days. 
Considering Mr F had given a third-party unmonitored access to his banking, I think 
he ought to have signed in and looked at the recent transactions to see what was 
going on. Especially as its possible he did sign the broker back in each day, so he 
was in fact already using his computer and in his banking at this time. Mr F then 
wouldve seen the loans coming in and the large payments leaving his account. And 
hed have still had £10,000 sat in his account if hed looked at his banking on 7 or 8 
February. I cant say its reasonable Mr F allowed the broker this access and didnt 
monitor his banking during this time. And as he couldve prevented this last £10,000 
loss, I cant fairly say Ulster Bank should reimburse this.
Due to the above my provisional redress for this case was £10,000. I didnt award interest as 
Mr F was investing in high-risk cryptocurrency and hadnt showed he wouldve invested in 
lower risk investments had it not been for this scam.
Mr F and Ulster Bank both accepted my provisional decision and neither party provided any 
further comments. So the case has been returned to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision and added no further comments, I see no 
reasoning to change my findings. So I intend to partially uphold Mr Fs complaint, as I 
consider that Ulster Bank should have contacted him about the first £10,000 payment  and 
this likely wouldve prevented this and the further losses. But Mr F has to also take 
responsibility for the way the scammer was able to make these payments, due to the 
unmonitored access he granted and signing them into his banking without checking it.
So, as set out above, Ulster Bank and Mr F should share 50% responsibility each for the 
payments sent on 7 February 2021. And then Mr F bears full responsibility for the payment 
sent on 9 February 2021.
Putting things right
Ulster Bank should reimburse Mr F £10,000. This is a 50% share of the first two £10,000 
payments Mr F sent on 7 February 2021. As explained above, Im making no award towards 
the first payment or the third payment. And no interest payment needs to be paid on this 
amount.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold Mr Fs complaint against National 
Westminster Bank Plc trading as Ulster Bank.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman