DRN-3366296
The complaint
Fs complaint is about the refusal of a business interruption claim under its business 
insurance policy with certain underwriters at Society of Lloyd's. Mr B, a director of F, has 
brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
F made a claim under its policy after it closed between March and July 2020, as a result of 
the restrictions imposed by the government in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
The underwriters refused the claim, as they said although the policy covers closure of a 
business due to infectious diseases, the disease has to occur at the premises, and not as a 
result of general closure required by the Government. The underwriters also considered 
cover under sections of cover for damage and denial of access and concluded the claim was 
not covered under these sections either. 
Fs representative is unhappy about this. He says F was forced to close as a direct result of 
a notifiable disease; the virus was everywhere, which is why it was forced to close, so the 
claim should be covered. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she was satisfied the underwriters were entitled to refuse the claim. 
F does not accept the Investigators assessment. F says that the refusal of the claim might 
comply with the strict application of the policy terms but not the spirit of the policy. The policy 
covers business interruption caused by a notifiable infectious disease, which Covid-19 is,         
and it was because of Covid-19 that it was forced to close.  F says the Supreme Court took a 
broader pragmatic view about this in its judgement on the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Business Interruption Insurance test case and its findings in that case supports its 
claim.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had such an 
impact on Cs business. However, I wont be upholding Fs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business interruption insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things 
which might happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each 
policy may provide different cover. 
I have considered Fs policy carefully. It includes cover for losses arising from the 
interruption of business as a result of certain specified events. There are three parts within 
the business interruption section of cover, which might appear relevant to this claim. I have 
therefore considered each of these and whether Fs claim might be covered under any of 
them.
Damage
The core business interruption cover within the policy provides cover for:
Loss of Net Takings in the event of the Business at the premises being interrupted
as a result of Damage to the property insured for which liability has been admitted 
under Section A.
Damage is defined in the policy as:
Loss of possession of or Damage to tangible property. 
The causes of damage covered in section A include events such as fire and storm. 
Whatever the cause of the damage covered in section A, there is a requirement for there to 
be physical damage to the premises.
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to the insured property, so 
I think its fair and reasonable for the underwriters to say theres no cover under this section 
of the policy. 
Denial of access
There is an extension to the business interruption section, which covers loss of takings 
resulting directly from:
Denial of Access  interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence 
of Damage insured by a specified period in Section A - Material damage to property 
in the vicinity of the premises insured which shall prevent or hinder the use thereof or 
access thereto
Again, this clause requires there to have been physical damage to properties in the vicinity 
that prevents access to Fs business premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that 
Covid-19 caused damage to any property in the vicinity and so I do not consider the claim 
would be covered under this section either. 
Closure due to infectious diseases
There is also an extension of cover for closure of the business as a result of an outbreak of 
an infectious disease. The policy says: 
Cover under this section is extended to include loss of net takings directly as a result 
of Closure  of the premises by a competent authority due to: 
(a) an outbreak of any notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the 
Premises
Covid-19 is a contagious and/or infectious disease. So for this extension to provide cover for 
Cs claim, the interruption to Cs business would need to be as a result of an outbreak of 
Covid-19 at the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that there was an 
outbreak of Covid-19 at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, 
the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a 
loss its policy covers.
F says that Covid-19 was present everywhere and relying on the requirement for there to 
have been a proven case at the premises is not in the spirit of the policy, as it does cover 
infectious diseases. It is quite possible there were cases of Covid-19 in the vicinity of the 
premises. There were policies which would cover the closure of a business due to a 
notifiable disease in the vicinity of the business premises but the terms in this policy 
specifically require there to be an outbreak of the disease at the premises. 
The evidence provided to me is that F closed as a result of the Government restrictions and 
not due to anyone at the premises having Covid-19. I do not therefore think it was 
unreasonable for the underwriters to refuse the claim under this section of cover, as there is 
no evidence of there having been an outbreak of Covid-19 at Fs premises.
Supreme Court judgment
F has also referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the FCAs Business Interruption 
Insurance test case in support of its complaint. The Court considered various policies which 
covered businesses which were forced to close as a result of notifiable diseases but it didnt 
consider policies that required an outbreak of a notifiable disease at the premises as in this 
policy. As F hasnt shown that there was most likely an outbreak of Covid-19 at its premises, 
I am not therefore persuaded that the judgment impacts the outcome of Fs complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman