DRN-2327927
The complaint
Mr M complains Gefion Insurance A/S has unfairly declined a claim he made on his motor 
insurance policy when his van was stolen.
Mr M is being represented in this complaint, but for ease Ive referred to all actions and 
comments as those of Mr M.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr M was unloading equipment from his van using the tail lift at the rear. He 
had the keys in the ignition to operate the lift. Whilst carrying the equipment into his back 
garden, Mr Ms van was stolen.
Mr M claimed under his motor insurance policy but Gefion declined the claim. It said 
because hed left his keys in the ignition, his claim was excluded under the policy. Mr M 
complained, he said he needed to have the keys in the ignition to operate the tail lift. 
Unhappy with Gefions response, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought Gefion had acted fairly in declining the claim. She said hed left the 
car unattended with the keys in the ignition, so Gefion was reasonable in relying on the 
policy exclusion to decline the claim.
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so the matter has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy says it wont pay claims for:
loss or damage arising from theft while the ignition keys of your vehicle have been 
left in or on your vehicle.
This service doesnt just consider policy terms, it also considers whether a business, so in 
this case Gefion, has acted fairly in relying on the term to decline a claim. In this instance I 
think it has. 
Mr M accepts he left the keys in the ignition and the engine running. He said he needed to 
do so to operate the tail lift on the van. But at the time the vehicle was stolen he wasnt 
operating the lift. He was carrying equipment from the van into his garden. So I dont find it 
was necessary for him to have the keys in the ignition, or the engine running, at this point.
From what Ive seen Mr M was far enough away from the vehicle that he wouldnt have been 
able to stop or deter an attempted theft. So I dont think Gefion has acted unreasonably in 
relying on the term. I recognise this leaves Mr M in a very difficult position, but Im not going 
to ask Gefion to do anything more.
Mr M has mentioned in his complaint to Gefion that he wasnt made aware of the keys in 
ignition exclusion when buying the policy. But from what Ive seen the policy wasnt sold by 
Gefion. So any concerns about the sales process would need to be raised with the seller and 
looked at separately.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Gefion Insurance A/S to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman