DRN-3735216
The complaint
Mrs K complains that NewDay Ltd incorrectly added a marker about her at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database, causing her financial difficulties and distress.
What happened
Mrs K explains that her accounts with other financial businesses were closed within a short 
space of time. She managed to find out that a CIFAS marker had been recorded by 
NewDay. She was unable to make repayments to her other borrowing and there were 
defaults. And she wants NewDay to put all this right.
NewDay said it accepted that it had added the CIFAS marker in error in April 2021. And it 
said that it had removed this on 12 July 2021. It paid Mrs K £165 for the trouble and upset 
caused. It said that it hoped its response letter could be used to confirm the error to other 
financial businesses. When it submitted its business file to this service it offered to pay Mrs K 
a further £250.
Our investigator recommended that it pay Mrs K a further £750 and NewDay agreed to do 
so. She said that the marker had clearly had an impact and that Mrs K has been in 
difficulties over a number of months. It was complex to calculate the impact. And here 
although other financial businesses can take a marker such as this into account, it is their 
responsibility to review it. Shed noted from final complaint responses from two other such 
financial businesses that neither said that the CIFAS marker alone was the sole reason for 
closing an account. And when they were aware of what happened they hadnt considered 
reopening the accounts. Those complaints were against different businesses and hadnt 
been referred to this service and so we couldnt comment on what theyd done. The defaults 
also hadnt been applied by NewDay and the reason for the defaults was missed payments. 
She said that information such as a CIFAS marker was routinely shared by financial 
businesses but that if Mrs K thought that there had been a breach of data protection she 
could pursue this with the Information Commissioners Office.
Mrs K didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She 
maintained that NewDay had leaked her data. There was no good reason for the CIFAS 
marker, and this has had a financial impact including on her credit file. She said shed been 
told how seriously other financial businesses take the marker and so that this was the 
reason for her difficulties. Mrs K wanted NewDay to remedy the situation and said she was 
considering legal action. She said she intended to send in information about what her credit 
record and score were before the CIFAS marker was added.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal dispute resolution and we arent a court. If Mrs K doesnt 
accept my decision she remains free to pursue this matter in legal action subject to any 
relevant time limits. I know she referred to wanting to send in more information about her 
credit record and I think shes had a reasonable opportunity to do so and I can fairly now 
consider her complaint.
Financial businesses routinely share relevant credit information under the terms and 
conditions of their agreements, and this includes when a CIFAS marker has been applied. 
The issue is clearly that here the information was incorrect. And Mrs K wants us to address 
all the consequences of this.
My understanding from what Mrs K says is that during the pandemic she couldnt operate 
her business and relied on her ability to borrow. She describes paying money off facilities 
and then using it again. When her accounts were closed she wasnt able to make 
repayments. And this contributed to defaults and also left her in financial difficulty.
This service generally takes the view that a CIFAS marker oughtnt result in an automatic 
refusal of a facility or closure of an account and that financial businesses must make their 
own checks and decisions. While Mrs K says other businesses have discussed the import of 
the CIFAS marker, their written explanations of the reasons for their actions have been more 
general. And I think its right that those businesses account for their own decisions and 
respond to the information now from NewDay about what happened. I cant direct those 
businesses to take any particular action in a complaint about NewDay and nor could I 
realistically expect NewDay to be able to do so either.
And even if I had been able fairly to hold NewDay directly responsible for those account 
closures it would be another matter then to say that there was a causality from the CIFAS 
marker to any default. While I appreciate Mrs Ks financial position, what she describes 
mightnt have been sustainable anyway. And it is the financial businesses involved that 
would take decisions about missed payments and any default and about whether to reinstate 
any facilities.
I dont doubt the distress and inconvenience Mrs K has been caused by NewDay. We dont 
make punitive awards and weve published guidance about compensation. The current offer 
is £915 (the £165 already paid and now the further £750). Thats in a range we might think 
appropriate where the impact has caused substantial distress, upset and worry and 
disruption over a number of months.
I appreciate Mrs K wants to be back in the position she says she would have been in before 
the CIFAS marker. I can understand that, but Ive explained how Ive approached things and 
what will be possible as a resolution from this complaint. Having considered everything shes 
said I find that the current amount is reasonable and so I wont be asking NewDay to do 
more than this. I know Mrs K will remain disappointed.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require NewDay Limited to pay Mrs K a 
further £750 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Michael CreweOmbudsman