DRN-2745675
The complaint
Mr H complains about Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services 
dealt with the reinvestment of his funds.
What happened
In late May 2019 Mr H invested a large sum of money in a One Year Online Bond with Post 
Office Financial Services (POFS). This investment paid 1.7% annual interest and the 
maturity date was 26 May 2020. 
Prior to his bond maturing, Mr H contacted POFS to discuss what savings products it had 
available for reinvesting his funds. It explained that, at the time, the best interest paying 
investment was its One Year Growth Bond  issue 40. This account paid 1.2% interest. 
Mr H thought the interest rate for issue 40 was competitive and calculated that, if he were to 
reinvest his funds in this product, hed earn £1008 in annual interest. He informed POFS that 
he wanted to transfer the funds within his existing bond to bond issue 40 over the telephone. 
The POFS representative Mr H spoke with informed him that his funds couldnt be 
transferred in the way he wanted. They told him hed need to either submit a paper based 
application or apply to open the bond he wanted in branch instead.
On 21 May 2020 POFS replaced the bond Mr H wanted to open with a new product  issue 
41. This led to a reduction in the interest rate from 1.2% to 0.65%. Mr H said he wasnt 
aware bond issue 40 had been withdrawn and said he wouldnt have wanted to apply for an 
account with a 0.65% interest yield.
Mr H completed his application form for a new bond on 27 May 2020 and POFS received it 
on 29 May. By this point, as bond 40 was no longer available, POFS opened issue 41 on his 
behalf instead. It transferred his funds into that account. However, this meant that instead of 
earning £1008 in annual interest Mr Hs investment accrued £546 interest.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. He told our service that, in 
order to resolve his complaint, he wanted POFS to reimburse him for the interest he believes 
he lost out on. And wanted it to change its application forms so that consumers can specify 
which product they wanted to apply for. 
After our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint, they didnt recommend upholding it. They 
thought POFS had dealt with matters fairly and reasonably. And they didnt think it had made 
an error. So, they werent persuaded it needed to do anything more here. But Mr H 
disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide the crux of the complaint and ensure that I respond to the main issues. 
Where I havent commented on a specific complaint point raised by Mr H or POFS its not 
because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach what I think is the right outcome for the complaint as a whole.
The crux of this complaint is whether POFS made a mistake, or treated Mrs H unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, it appears that when Mr H contacted POFS to discuss his 
options for reinvestment, issue 40 was still available. Hes told our service that hed like his 
investment to be re-routed to its original intended destination  issue 40. And hed like the 
1.2% interest rate that was applicable to bond issue 40 to be applied. Hes also said he 
wants to be able to terminate his existing bond product with immediate effect and without 
incurring a penalty.
Ive carefully considered what Mr H has said but issue 40 was withdrawn on 21 May 2020. 
So, when Mr H made his call to POFS it didnt mislead him in providing information about 
that product as it was available at that time. And the information Mr H was given about the 
interest rate for issue 40 was correct. So, POFS didnt make an error in informing Mr H about 
the features issue 40 offered.
I havent seen any evidence showing that POFS staff knew issue 40 was due to be 
withdrawn at the time Mr H contacted them over the telephone. So, they couldnt inform him 
that the availability of issue 40 was limited.
Issue 40 was withdrawn five days prior to the date that Mr Hs bond matured  26 May 2020. 
He couldnt reinvest his funds before the maturity date. Im therefore satisfied that it wasnt 
possible for Mr H to reinvest his funds in issue 40 as he wanted.
POFS said it removed all information relating to issue 40 from its website on 21 May and 
replaced it with details of issue 41. And Ive no reason to doubt what it says about this. Im 
persuaded that if Mr H had attempted to look up information relating to issue 40 after 21 May 
hed have seen that this product was no longer available. Hed also have seen that issue 41 
had replaced issued 40 and had a lower interest yield of 0.65%.
Ive seen evidence confirming that POFS received Mr Hs completed application form on 29 
May 2020. As Ive already outlined that, by this point, the available bond was issue 41. This 
explains why Mr Hs funds were reinvested in a lower interest yielding bond. 
Mr H is unhappy that POFS didnt contact him prior to opening, and transferring his funds to, 
issue 41 to explain that issue 40 was no longer available. But I dont think that would be a 
reasonable expectation. I say this because that would require a bank to check each 
application it receives against customer records to determine whether there was anything to 
indicate that a customer had intended to apply for a different account to the one on offer 
when the application was received. 
I can appreciate that Mr H would be unhappy to learn that his funds had been invested into a 
lower interest yielding bond. But, as POFS, has indicated in the submissions it sent our 
service, until an application has been received it cant guarantee the interest rate will stay 
the same as the rate quoted. This isnt unreasonable.
POFS has also stated that an issue can with withdrawn from sale at any given time and that, 
once a product has been withdrawn, it cannot accept applications on a retrospective basis. 
Again, this isnt unreasonable. And its reflected in POFS terms and conditions, which state: The Fixed Rates on offer can change at any time. The rate of interest you receive will be the 
Fixed Rate that applies to the Fixed Term you select and that is on offer at the time your 
application is received.
With the above condition in mind, I havent seen enough evidence to enable me to fairly find 
that POFS made an error in opening, and transferring Mr Hs funds to, issue 41. 
POFS stated that Mr H was sent a confirmation of deposit letter on 3 June 2020, which 
advised of the issue number and applicable interest rate. Having seen a copy of this 
correspondence Im satisfied Mr H was made aware in clear terms that POFS had opened 
issue 41 on his behalf with an interest rate of 0.65%. If hed been unhappy with the actions 
POFS had undertaken he could have discussed this with it and closed his account within the 
first 14 days without incurring a penalty.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I cant tell POFS to open an account it has 
withdrawn. I also cant tell it that it should permit Mr H to withdraw his funds from issue 41 
prematurely without incurring a penalty.
I can see that Mr H is unhappy that POFS required a completed application form before it 
was able to open a new product for him. But POFS says this is because a customer cannot 
make a telephone application due to the terms and conditions of the account, which must be 
read and agreed. It also said the account Mr H wanted to open could only be applied for in 
branch or via a paper based application. I dont think this is unreasonable. 
In any event, Id like to make it clear to Mr H that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not a 
regulator. We provide informal dispute resolution. So, I dont have the power to tell POFS to 
change the way it processes or accepts application forms. Its entitled to exercise its own 
commercial judgment about that and that isnt something with which wed interfere.
I can also see that Mr H is unhappy with the content of the application form  he says it 
doesnt allow a customer to indicate which issue number they wish to apply for. I understand 
the point Mr H is making but I dont agree that the application form is flawed. I say this 
because one issue number replaces another sequentially. So, a customer can only apply for 
the issue that is available at the time their application is received.
Again, our service cant tell a bank how information should be presented to a customer on 
the documentation or forms it produces because thats a matter for the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority. So, I dont have the power to tell POFS to change the way it 
presents information on application forms in the way Mr H would like.
I know this wont be the response Mr H will want and I understand he feels very strongly 
about the issues raised in this complaint. But for the reasons given, my final decision is that 
Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman