DRN-3490049
The complaint
Mrs A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund money she 
lost when she fell victim to an investment scam.
She is represented by a claims management company in this complaint.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill provide an overview of the background and focus on giving reasons for my 
decision.
Between December 2014 and December 2015, Mrs A sent money to several investment
brokers. Unfortunately, the investment opportunity turned out to be a scam. Mrs A reported 
the fraud to the police and NatWest in January 2016. NatWest attempted to recall the funds 
from the beneficiary bank, but no funds remained in the beneficiary account.
In December 2021, with the assistance of her representative, Mrs A complained to NatWest
that it had failed to protect her from fraud and hadnt reimbursed the money that was stolen
from her. NatWest said it had already investigated and declined her fraud claim in 2016. It
said it wouldnt revisit the matter.
I issued a decision last month and said that Mrs As concerns about the disputed payments 
made prior to 17 December 2015 were out of time. But I could consider her complaint about 
the final payment  a foreign payment of £738.50 to Option Ventures  which was made on 
22 December 2015. 
I gave both parties an opportunity to provide any final submissions in relation to the last 
payment. NatWest didnt respond. Mrs As representative said that the payment was out of 
character for her when taken into account with all of the other fraudulent and out of character 
payments. It said it was clear that the bank should have intervened much earlier and 
prevented all of this from happening.
Preliminary matters
Mrs As representatives latest submission refers to transactions that Ive previously 
explained I cant consider. I wont be making any further comment on transactions which Ive 
already decided are not within this services jurisdiction. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks and 
building societies should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. 
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
they were duped into doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank also 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for 
the losses incurred by its customers as a result.
The disputed payment was made by Mrs A using her legitimate security credentials. 
I therefore conclude that this was an authorised payment for which Mrs A is liable unless 
theres evidence that NatWest could and should reasonably have done more to protect her, 
and that this would have made a difference to her decision-making. 
When considering what payments should be considered significantly out of character, it is 
often a finely balanced matter. And banks have a difficult balance to strike between 
identifying transactions where there are indications of higher fraud risks and allowing 
customers to utilise their accounts with minimal unnecessary disruptions.
There were no regulator warnings about Option Ventures when Mrs A made the payment. In 
the circumstances, I wouldnt have expected NatWest to have picked up a payment to it as 
being suspicious based on the merchant name alone. 
Ive also considered the operation of Mrs As account in the year leading up to the disputed 
payment. This is to determine whether it was so unusual or uncharacteristic that I think 
NatWest ought to have intervened. The account statements show that it wasnt unusual for 
Mrs A to make payments of similar or higher amounts during that period. For instance, I can 
see an online banking payment of £700 to a third-party in October 2015, as well as debit 
card and online banking payments ranging between £1,000 and £2,000 to credit cards in 
January and February 2015. 
The payment in dispute was sent to a bank account overseas. But looking at her bank 
statements, Mrs A regularly sent foreign payments. Considering the circumstances of this 
individual case, Im not persuaded that the disputed payment of £738.50 was so unusual or 
uncharacteristic that it ought to have triggered an alert on NatWests system.
Ive also considered whether NatWest took reasonable steps to try and recover Mrs As 
funds once it became aware of the scam. It is my understanding that recovery attempts 
should usually be made within 48 hours of being notified of a dispute. From the available 
information, Mrs A told NatWest shed been a victim of fraud on 14 January 2016. I can see 
that NatWest contacted the overseas beneficiary bank on the same day and attempted to 
recall the funds. Sadly, no funds remained in the beneficiary account. Under the 
circumstances, I dont think NatWest could have done more to recover the stolen money.
In summary, I know that Mrs A and her representative will be disappointed with this 
outcome. I also recognise its likely that they will disagree with my findings. But having 
considered the matter carefully, I dont think that NatWest could have prevented the loss 
Mrs A suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A (or her 
representative on her behalf) to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman