DRN-4351360
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy because his overdraft facility on his account with Santander UK Plc was 
reduced and then removed.
What happened
Mr S holds an account with Santander. The account had an overdraft facility which was 
reduced to £200 and then removed.
Mr S complained to Santander. He said he didnt want the overdraft facility removed 
because as a disabled person it was essential for him to have the facility in case of 
emergencies.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had followed the correct process to reduce 
and remove the overdraft facility.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the terms and conditions of the 
account allowed Santander to remove the overdraft facility. The investigator said that 
Santander had taken a commercial decision to remove the overdraft, and this wasnt a 
decision that this service could interfere with. The investigator said he hadnt seen anything 
to suggest that Santander had acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he felt that hed been discriminated against and said he wanted 
his overdraft facility reinstated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions applicable to Mr Ss account. These say  at section 
7.4(b) - that Santander can change an overdraft facility, or require a customer to repay the 
overdraft, or remove an overdraft facility at any time. Theres no requirement for Santander 
to give notice of any changes but in this case, I can see that Santander wrote to Mr S to 
provide him with advance notice that his £200 overdraft was due to be removed.
I appreciate that Mr S didnt want the overdraft facility to be removed. However, Im unable to 
say that Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably by removing the overdraft, because 
the terms and conditions allow it to do this.
Its up to Santander whether it provides customers with an overdraft facility. The removal of 
an overdraft facility is a commercial decision which Santander is allowed to take. It isnt a 
decision that this service can interfere with or ask Santander to reverse. This service can 
only look at whether Santander treated Mr S fairly and reasonably when it took the decision 
to remove the overdraft facility from his account.
Santander isnt obliged to provide a reason for its decision. However, I can see that in this 
case, Santander explained to Mr S that it took the decision to remove his overdraft as a 
result of adverse information from Mr Ss credit file which had been shared with Santander. 
Santander explained to Mr S that the decision had been taken on a financial basis, and not 
for any other reason.
Mr S has said that he feels that hes been discriminated against. Ive reviewed the 
information provided by Santander to see whether they treated Mr S fairly and reasonably 
when it removed the overdraft facility.  Ive had regard to the Equality Act 2010 as part of my 
review.
Having reviewed everything, I dont think Santander treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Santander treated Mr S any differently to any other 
customer. Ive considered the point that Mr S makes about needing the overdraft for 
emergencies, and I understand why he wants it reinstated to provide a safety net. However, 
as Ive said above, Santander took the decision to remove the overdraft on a financial basis, 
having regard to the information being reported by the credit reference agencies.
In conclusion, Im unable to say that Santander treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably when it 
removed the overdraft facility. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman