DRN-3940663
The complaint
Ms P complains about the way AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAUICL) 
handled a claim she had following an accident.
What happened
Ms P has an insurance policy which she bought through a broker (AAISL). The policy was 
set up as an AA branded policy but has a separate underwriter (UW). In August 2021 Ms P 
was involved in an accident which she reported to AAISL.
Ms P told AAISL that a car had driven out from a sideroad and hit her car. She said it was 
non-fault accident on her part. So, AAISL offered Ms P its After the Event insurance policy. 
This was a separate policy, underwritten by AAUICL. And its the service provided under the 
cover of this policy that Ms P is complaining about. This policy is used when a claim is non-
fault and it allows a customer to go through the claims process, without having to claim on 
their own comprehensive insurance policy. It means the customer doesnt have to pay an 
excess and it provides the customer with an option of a courtesy vehicle. 
Ms P says that making this claim using the After the Event policy set in motion a litany of 
events that caused her delays, inconvenience and frustration. She says:
AAUICL made her an offer for her car which was a total loss, which it then retracted. 
Ms P then says that AAUICL passed her to UW who made a lesser offer for her 
vehicle. Ms P says AAUICL didnt tell her that by reverting to UW she would receive 
less for her car. She says this caused her a financial loss. 
AAUICL repeatedly ignored her, lied to her, and acted with incompetence causing 
her anxiety and stress. Ms P says she was fobbed off to UW with incomplete 
information. Ms P says AAUICL made errors whilst setting up her complaint, meaning 
she had to contact AAUICL numerous times in October 2021. 
AAUICL completely ignored a witness to her accident, lied about this and then 
delayed making contact with the witness.
AAUICL failed to call her back for days after requesting to speak to a manager.
Ms P complained to our service. AAUICL reviewed its file again and said it would pay Ms P 
£100 in compensation.
But Ms P doesnt agree, and she would like more compensation. Ms P says we havent dealt 
with all the complaint points she raised. So, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it in part. Ill explain why.
When Ms P reported the accident as non-fault, AAISL offered Ms P a chance to avail of an 
After the Event policy from AAUICL free of charge. Let me explain what this is and how it 
works.
Normally, when a policyholder makes a claim on their own comprehensive policy, the cost of 
the claim will be paid by the UW of that policy. But there is usually a cost to the policyholder. 
The policyholder will have to pay an excess, because a claim has been made. There can 
also sometimes be a cost to the policyholder for car hire.
If a policyholder doesnt want to pay an excess, he/she can deal with the third-party insurer 
directly. In this scenario its likely the policyholder would be liable for their own car hire and 
they would have to communicate with the third-party insurer themselves.
With After the Event cover, AAUICL manage the claim without the policyholder having to 
go through their own UW. This is particularly good if a third party is fully at fault and has 
admitted liability. However, I need to be clear here, The AAUICLs only role under this cover 
is to manage the policyholders claim with a third-party insurer. Its not meant to investigate 
liability or deal with the policyholders own underwriter. Its sole purpose is to manage the 
claim with the third-party in the policyholders place.
The incident was reported on 19 August 2021. Ms P called AAISL and during this call she 
was offered the After the Event policy. 
But I think -based on the email exchanges Ms P later had with AAUICL, and the content of 
her complaint points with us - that Ms P was and is confused about how this policy works. 
So, lets deal with the total loss valuation that Ms P says was guaranteed to her. As I said 
above, the After the Event policy is just in place to handle the claim on Ms Ps behalf. Its 
clear from the terms and conditions that it doesnt cover total loss. The policy says, What is 
not insured - The value of your vehicle if your vehicle is a total loss. Its only role here is to 
provide Ms P with a valuation for the vehicle, and then put this valuation to the party that 
collided with Ms P. Its not up to AAUICL to pay this amount to Ms P. Its up to the third-party 
insurer, or her own UW to pay this part of the claim. 
I know Ms P says she was told this valuation was guaranteed to her. But in the absence of a 
call recording its hard to know what Ms P was told (there was a technical issue and the call 
didnt record). All I can say is that it wasnt the place of the After the Event policy to 
guarantee anything. Its sole role was to value the car for Ms P. So, I think its more likely 
than not that AAUICL put a value on the car, and Ms P misunderstood AAUICLs role in the 
process, and thought thats what she was getting for her car. So, I cant see that AAUICL did 
anything wrong here.
Ms P has since told us that shes received approximately £315 less than what AAUICL told 
her her car was worth from UW. I know Ms P thinks this is AAUICLs fault. But its not. If UW 
decided to reduce the value of the car then that is solely UWs decision. If Ms P disagrees 
with this valuation, thats a separate complaint against the UW, and I wont be dealing with 
this issue in this final decision. However, as an aside, I do note that excess was due on the 
payment from UW, and this may be the reason theres a difference in the amount Ms P 
received.
The next issue I want to deal with is the independent witness and AAUICLs role in the claim 
investigation. When AAUICL contacted the third-party insurer, it denied liability for the 
accident. There was a delay in obtaining a response from the third-party, so this caused a 
delay in the next steps for AAUICL. I know Ms P says AAUICL was incompetent and delayed 
contacting the witness. She says this delay caused financial loss and increased premiums. But again, I stress, the After the Event policy wasnt in place to value Ms Ps car or 
investigate the claim. Even though AAUICL had all the details from the beginning, it only 
became necessary to contact the witness or investigate what happened when the third-party 
denied liability. This was not AAUICLs fault. It only stepped in at a point that further 
investigation was required to gather information for UW. And its UWs role to investigate, not 
AAUICLs. I know there was a hold up in processing the witness statement once received. 
But from the evidence provided I dont see that AAUICL did anything wrong here either.
Id also like to touch on the service Ms P received and what happened when she 
complained. Ms P was clearly confused and asked to speak to a manager on 20 October 
2021. She emailed a further three times and this was only acknowledged on 4 November. 
Another email dated 12 November would suggest there was still no call. So, I think Ms P did 
receive some poor service from AAUICL, and I do think she needs to be compensated for 
this inconvenience.
Once the complaint came to our service, AAUICL reviewed it and offered to pay Ms P £100 
in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service. An award of 
£100 is usually suitable where there have been repeated small errors requiring a reasonable 
effort to sort out or where we see lower levels of distress, disappointment and loss of 
expectation. And I think thats the right amount to compensate Ms P. I know she wants more, 
and she believes shes been very much wronged by AAUICL. But from reading the 
correspondence Ms P has sent, I firmly believe that Ms P misunderstood the role of the 
AAUICLs After the Event policy in her claim, and her expectation far exceeded the cover 
that it offered. I appreciate and acknowledge Ms Ps frustration. But from what I can see 
apart from some poor service provided, AAUICL didnt do anything wrong, and if Ms P has 
any further issues in relation to claim investigation or the value of her car, they need to be 
addressed to the UW of her policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Pay Ms P £100 compensation in total (if it hasnt already done so) for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023. 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman