DRN-2499692
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him payment protection insurance
(PPI) policies with two linked loans.
What happened
In April 2000, Mr K took out a loan with Nationwide.
At the same time, Nationwide sold PPI to Mr K.
Mr K borrowed more money to pay for the policy and this was added to the loan. So this 
meant Mr K would pay extra interest as well.
The policy covered the loan repayments if Mr K lost his job or couldnt work because of an
accident or sickness. It also gave him life cover.
In December 2001, Mr K took out a new loan with Nationwide. He used this to pay off the 
first loan and borrow some extra money. At the same time, Nationwide sold him PPI.
Like the first time, Mr K also borrowed extra to pay for this PPI. And the cost of the PPI was
added to the loan and attracted interest.
The policy gave Mr K the same protection.
In 2003 Mr K did the same again.
All these loans were arranged over the phone. Mr K signed the paperwork Nationwide sent 
him to set up the loans and the PPI.
Our adjudicator investigated what had happened. 
Nationwide agreed it mis-sold PPI with the loan Mr K took out in 2003. It settled this part of 
the complaint by paying back what Mr K had spent on the PPI plus interest.
But Nationwide didnt agree that it had mis-sold PPI with the other loans. So our adjudicator 
investigated. Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaints about the PPI sold with the 
loans taken out in 2000 and 2001.
Mr K disagrees with our adjudicator.
Mr K mainly says he is adamant that he never agreed to take out PPI. He told us he never 
felt it was useful. And he didnt ever need it.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr K said. But what he says isnt enough on its own for me 
to say that the loans were mis-sold.
I have to look at all the information thats available and decide what seems most likely.
After thinking carefully about everything, I dont plan to tell Nationwide to do anything more. 
Ill explain why.
Im looking at the loans Mr K took out in 2000 and 2001.
I dont know what Nationwide said on the phone when Mr K arranged these loans. But it 
doesnt make any difference. Thats because I've seen paperwork that Mr K completed to 
get the loans and the PPI.
It looks like Mr Ks circumstances were the same in 2000 and 2001 so Ive looked at both 
these loans together and thought about some important questions I need to decide.
Did Nationwide give Mr K a fair choice about PPI?
Ive seen the loan agreements Mr K signed.
These included a separate section headed Optional Credit Insurance. Details of the PPI he
bought are filled in.
So I think that Nationwide did make it clear that Mr K could choose if he wanted to have PPI.
Did Mr K agree to take out PPI?
On the loan agreement sent to Mr K it says he was insured for disability, unemployment and
life.
Mr K signed the loan agreement  next to where it says: Sign it only if you want to be legally
bound by its terms.
So it looks like Mr K agreed to the PPI knowing it was optional with this loan.
Mr K couldve seen all this information when signing the agreement. And the loan paperwork 
made it clear that the PPI wasnt something Mr K had to have if he didnt want it.
I've taken into account that Mr K might have found it hard to read and understand all the 
information on the form. But I think it is reasonable to think he would have understood he 
was signing a legal agreement to borrow money.
The paperwork was sent to him at home. So he could have taken as long as he needed to in
order to check what was on the form. 
And if he needed to, Mr K could have asked for extra help to make sure he was happy with 
what he was signing up to.
Based on the information Ive seen, I think that Nationwide did enough to make it clear that
Mr K could choose if he wanted to have PPI and that he wanted this cover at the time.Did Nationwide give Mr K enough clear information to make a proper decision about
whether PPI was right for him?
If not, does this make any overall difference?
Ive looked at the details of the PPI and thought carefully about what I know of Mr Ks 
circumstances in 2000 and 2001.
I dont know exactly what was discussed each time when Mr K took out the loans with PPI. 
But, even if there were problems with the information Nationwide gave Mr K, I dont think this 
wouldve made any difference to what happened.
I think its likely that Mr K wouldve still decided to take out the PPI each time. I say this 
because:
- Mr K was eligible for the policies he took out
- there were some things the policies didnt cover. But this didnt affect Mr K. So I dont think 
that knowing more about things the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference to Mr K 
when he was deciding whether to have PPI
- Mr K couldve seen each time that hed be paying interest on the extra amount borrowed 
with each loan to pay for the PPI. How much this would be was clearly set out on the loan 
agreements
- the same policy benefits applied to each loan. PPI couldve paid out in the event of 
accident or sickness for the whole period of the loan that was protected by the policy  on 
top of any sick pay
- so the policies couldve paid out for much longer than Mr K could've depended on his 
employer to pay him sick pay. PPI couldve cleared the loans if Mr K wasnt well enough to 
return to work for a long time
- and PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mr K lost his job unexpectedly and was 
out of work
- I dont know if Mr K wouldve been able to change careers quickly enough to be able to 
make money in time to make the loan repayments hed signed up to pay each month
- PPI meant Mr K could be sure the loans would be paid even if he couldnt work - so, when 
Mr K arranged these loans I can understand why he might have felt PPI was useful to have
- Mr K was able to cancel the PPI early without losing out  Nationwide gave him 
proportionate refunds of the PPI cost when these loans were settled early.
I appreciate that Mr K is sure about what hes told us.
But I can also completely understand why Mr K might have forgotten some of these details
as these sales took place a long time ago.
And I havent seen enough to make me think that Mr K has lost out as a result of anything 
Nationwide did wrong when it sold him PPI with his loans in 2000 and 2001.For the 2003 loan, it looks like Nationwide has already paid Mr K what we would expect. But 
this doesnt mean the earlier loans were mis-sold. We look at each case on its own merits.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr K made no further comments. 
Nationwide says it has nothing more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
No further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that change 
what I think about this case. 
So I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman