DRN-2802680
The complaint
Mr M  on behalf of his limited company (F)  complains that certain underwriters at the 
Society of Lloyds (the underwriters) have unfairly declined to treat Fs director (Mr K) as 
an insured party under his legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M is one of the directors of F, which holds a commercial legal expenses policy with the 
underwriters. He made a claim on the policy for breach of contract (in relation to Fs lease) 
due to an incursion of water from the premises above Fs business that had been ongoing 
since 2015. 
The underwriters declined the claim for breach of contract because the lease for Fs 
premises has been taken out in Mr Ks name in July 2011, which was before F was 
incorporated as a limited company in August 2012, where Mr M named as the director at that 
time. The underwriters said there was no evidence to suggest that Mr K had entered into the 
lease agreement on behalf of F, given that it was taken out before the company even 
existed, so they said that Fs policy would not respond to a breach of contract claim as there 
was no contractual link. 
However, the underwriters said they would be prepared to assist F with a claim for legal 
nuisance and/or property damage under a conditional fee agreement, which they said Mr K 
could join as a co-claimant given that there was an assumed responsibility of the lease in 
place, and because it would not increase the cost of the claim. But the underwriters 
subsequently clarified that Mr K would not have the benefit of being covered for any 
counterclaim or adverse cost orders made against him as a co-claimant because he didnt 
satisfy the policy definition of an insured party at the time of the insured event (i.e. the 
ingress of water). They said, for example, that he wasnt a director or employee of F in 2015, 
and according to Companies House, was only made a director in 2019. 
The underwriters sought legal advice from counsel on the claims prospects of success. 
Counsel advised that there were positive prospects (above 50%) for pursuing an injunction, 
but that Fs claim for damages did not enjoy reasonable prospects. The underwriters said 
that if Mr M disagreed with counsels opinion, he could obtain a second opinion from an 
alternative barrister at his own cost.
Mr M complained as he said that Mr K should be treated as an insured party under the policy 
and afforded the same protection as Fs officers against any potential adverse cost orders. 
He was also unhappy that he would have to fund a second opinion from counsel at his own 
cost should he want to challenge the assessment of the underwriters counsel. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he didnt think the underwriters had acted 
unfairly by excluding Mr K from cover for adverse costs, given that Mr M couldnt adequately 
demonstrate that he met the criteria of being an insured party under the policy. Mr M 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
First, I note that several of Mr Ms concerns centre around the quality of the advice and 
service provided by the legal professionals that have been acting on his claim. But as the 
investigator has already highlighted, the underwriters are the legal expenses insurance 
provider, not the suitably qualified expert dealing with the case. As such, our role is to 
assess the insurers handling of the claim in light of the policy terms to determine whether 
theyve fulfilled their obligations reasonably and dealt with the claim fairly. Were unable to 
consider the quality of legal advice (unless it is patently wrong) or the actions of legal 
professionals such as solicitors or barristers, as this falls under the remit of the Legal 
Ombudsman.
In terms of the underwriters handling of Mr Ms claim, Ive considered whether theyve acted 
fairly by denying potential coverage for Mr K against adverse costs. Such costs are covered 
under the legal expenses section of the policy, but only for parties that are insured under the 
policy  i.e. F and its officers. The policy terms and conditions set out the following definition 
of insured.
Insured
1. You, your directors, partners, managers, officers and employees of your 
business.
2. The estate, heirs, legal representatives or assigns of any persons mentioned in 1. 
in the event of such person dying.
3. A person declared to us, who is contracted to perform work for you, who in all 
other respects you have arranged to insure on the same basis as your other 
employees and who performs work under your supervision.
The information provided from Companies House shows that Mr M was appointed as the 
director of F when it was incorporated in 2012. I can see that Mr K was subsequently 
appointed as a director in 2019, but this was several years after the insured event first 
occurred (which is said to have been around 2015). So I do not think he can reasonably be 
considered to be an insured party by virtue of him being a director, given that he was 
appointed after the insured event had occurred.
The underwriters said they would consider this position further if Mr M was able to provide 
evidence to demonstrate that Mr K fell into any other category set out in the policy definition 
of an insured party. I can see that Mr M did provide further documentation in this regard, but 
Im not persuaded it sufficiently demonstrates that Mr K was an insured party.
I understand that Mr K held shares in F, for example. But a shareholder is not listed as an 
insured party under the policy definition. And neither does it make him a partner in the 
sense that I consider to have been intended by the underwriters (i.e. referring to an official 
business arrangement between individuals whereby all parties share legal and financial 
liability equally, with all such partners being personally responsible for the debts the 
partnership takes on). F is a private limited company with directors and is not a partnership 
in this sense. 
I also appreciate there is other evidence to suggest that Mr K was made an employee of F 
on 20 February 2018. But again, this was after the insured event first occurred, so him 
becoming an employee in 2018 still does not serve to make him an insured party for the 
purposes of Fs claim. Similarly, Mr M has said that Mr K has been insured under Fs policy since 2018 which, if correct, still wouldnt entitle him to cover for adverse costs on a legal 
claim where the cause of action (i.e. the leak) accrued several years prior. 
Mr M has submitted further documentation from August 2012 that states that Mr K (as the 
leaseholder of the business premises) had given his authority for F and Mr M to act on his 
behalf. But again, Im not persuaded this brings him within scope of the definition of an 
insured party either (e.g. being a director, employee or officer of F, for example).
Having considered all the reasons and documentation provided by Mr M, Im not persuaded 
that Mr K can reasonably be considered as an insured party under Fs policy, as he does not 
fall within any of the categories set out in the policy definition. So, I dont think the 
underwriters have acted unfairly by specifying that Mr K would not be afforded coverage 
against adverse costs as a co-claimant in Fs legal action, as the policy would only respond 
to any award made against F (or its officers) as the insured parties in this instance.
The underwriters sought advice from solicitors and counsel on various occasions throughout 
2018 and 2019 in relation to the different heads of claim that could potentially be pursued by 
F. However, the most recent legal assessment from counsel (obtained by the underwriters) 
stated that there were insufficient prospects for pursuing compensation or damages, and 
that the only element of Fs claim that did have sufficient prospects was to obtain an 
injunction with a view to stopping the ingress of water. 
The underwriters have subsequently relied on counsels advice to determine which elements 
of Fs claim it is willing to cover (i.e. to pursue an injunction). I appreciate that Mr M may not 
agree with counsels opinion. But as Ive set out previously, our service is not able to 
consider the actions of solicitors or barristers, including the quality of legal advice they have 
provided. And generally, we consider it fair for the insurer to rely on the advice of 
appropriately qualified legal professionals unless there is anything to suggest that the legal 
advice provided was patently wrong, such that it was unreasonable for the insurer to rely on 
it. 
As things currently stand, Ive seen nothing that would suggest counsels assessment of Fs 
claim was patently wrong, so theres currently no basis on which to conclude that the 
underwriters have acted unreasonably by relying on it to decide which elements of the claim 
to cover and which to decline. The underwriters have said they would be willing to reconsider 
their position if Mr M is able to provide a contrary legal assessment from an equally qualified 
barrister, but that he would have to obtain this at his own cost. 
I do not consider the underwriters position in this regard to be unreasonable, as they cannot 
be expected to continue funding expensive legal opinions just because the policyholder 
disagrees with it. If, however, Mr M does subsequently obtain his own barristers opinion that 
contradicts the opinion obtained by the underwriters, then I would expect the underwriters to 
reimburse Mr Ms costs in this regard (and to fund any further final opinion if they 
subsequently disagree with Mr Ms barrister). 
However, given that Mr M has not submitted any conflicting legal opinion from an alternative 
barrister, Im satisfied that the underwriters have not acted unfairly by relying on counsels 
advice.
In summary, Im not persuaded that the underwriters have done anything wrong in these 
circumstances, so I will not be directing them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M  on behalf 
of F  to accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman