DRN-3793821
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 30 August 2021, Mrs B was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. The agreement was for £8,338 over 60 months; with monthly 
repayments of £222.94. At the time the car was just over five years old and had done around 
54,000 miles.
In March 2022, Mrs B complained to Moneybarn. She said there were various issues with 
the car  a warning light staying on, the engine making a noise after itd been turned off, and 
some cosmetic damage - that made her think the car had previously been involved in an 
accident. She was unable to take the car back to the supplying dealership, as they were no 
longer trading.
Moneybarn said that Mrs B hadnt provided any evidence to show that there were faults with 
the car that were present or developing when the car was supplied to her. And they didnt 
think the cosmetic issues affected the quality of the car. Because of this, they didnt uphold 
her complaint. Mrs B wasnt happy with Moneybarns response, and she referred her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said hed expect any significant cosmetic damage to be noticeable when 
Mrs B inspected the car, prior to the finance agreement being put in place. Or in the first few 
days after the car was supplied. But he said that Mrs B didnt raise these issues with 
Moneybarn until seven months after the car was supplied. So, he didnt think that Moneybarn 
were responsible.
The investigator also said that Moneybarn had asked Mrs B for evidence of a fault with the 
car, relating to the warning light and engine noise, but this hadnt been provided. He also 
said that the car had passed an MOT in January 2022, with no indication of any issues of the 
type Mrs B had described. Because of this, he didnt think that the car wasnt of a 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs B.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator. She said that the car wouldnt now pass an MOT 
test because of the pre-sale accident damage, and there was tape behind the dashboard to 
hide the fact that a warning light was illuminated. Mrs B provided photos of the damage to 
the car, and of a stripped-down dashboard. She also provided the results of an MOT that 
had been done on 12 September 2022.  
The investigator reviewed this evidence, but he said it didnt change his mind. Because of 
this, Mrs B has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs B was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Moneybarn are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. 
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, it implies that the fault was present when the 
car was supplied, unless Moneybarn can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, it implies that its for Mrs B to show that it was present when the car 
was supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mrs B took possession of it, and this 
made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put 
this right.
While Ive seen that Mrs B has raised issues about the quality of the car, the only evidence 
Ive seen to support any issues are the photographs shes supplied, and the MOT history on 
the car. The photographs include some messages with a salesperson at the dealership in 
September 2021, where Mrs B raised the issue of the cosmetic damage to the car. But she 
hasnt raised the issue of the warning light, or the noises made by the car.
One of the photographs, taken on 6 September 2021, shows the tyre pressure warning light 
was illuminated. Mrs B has also provided details of the MOT that took place on 12 
September 2022. At the time the car had done 63,628 miles and it failed for issues with the 
windscreen wipers, the alignment of a headlight, some wiring insulation damage due to 
cables rubbing together, and the engine management warning light (EML) being illuminated.
However, the MOT record shows that the car passed an MOT on 2 September 2021, after 
an issue with the numberplate light was fixed, with no advisories. This was around the time 
the car was supplied to Mrs B. Based on this, its reasonable for me to conclude that the 
issues that caused the MOT failure in September 2022 developed after the MOT in 
September 2021.
While the issue with the windscreen wipers and the headlight alignment are normal wear and 
tear issues, and the rubbing of the cables to the point where the insulation has been 
damaged is an ongoing maintenance issue; Mrs B has said that the EML had been covered 
by tape inside the dashboard. So, she thinks the September 2021 MOT was illegal and that 
this was a longstanding issue. Shes also provided photos of a stripped-down dashboard, 
which clearly show the EML being covered by tape on the inside of the dashboard.Ive compared the photo of the stripped-down dashboard, and the photo of the in-situ 
dashboard that shows the tyre pressure light illuminated. And they dont match. The in-situ 
dashboard has the warning lights on the rev-counter, and the speed indicator only goes up 
to 130. However, the stripped-down dashboard photographs have the warning lights on the 
speed indicator, which goes up to 140. Whats more, the fuel indicator is on the bottom in the 
in-situ picture, and the top in the stripped-down picture. 
Based on these two photographs, both supplied by Mrs B, Im satisfied that the in-situ 
dashboard and the stripped-down dashboard are two completely different dashboards. And, 
as such, I cant agree that there was tape covering a warning light on the dashboard thats 
in-situ in the car supplied to Mrs B.
Because of this, Ive not seen any evidence to show me there was any fault with the car that 
was either present or developing when it was supplied to Mrs B.
Turning now to the cosmetic damage, the photos supplied by Mrs B (which were taken on 15 
September 2021) show obvious damage to the front of the car. Section 9 of the CRA says:
(3) The quality of goods includes their state or condition; and the following aspects (among 
others) are in appropriate cases aspects of the quality of goods  (b) appearance and finish 
[and] (c) freedom from minor defects 
(4) The term mentioned [above] does not cover anything which makes the quality of goods 
unsatisfactory  (a) which is specifically drawn to the customers attention before the 
contract is made [or] (b) where the consumer examines the goods before the contract is 
made, which that examination ought to reveal.
It's not disputed that Mrs B purchased the car from a dealership. While its not possible for 
me to know what was, and wasnt, brought to Mrs Bs attention by the dealership; the 
damage to the car is obvious from the photographs. As such, if it was present when the car 
was supplied to Mrs B, it wouldve been revealed by any visual examination she made of the 
car. Because of this, this damage doesnt make the car of an unsatisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Mrs B.
Taking all of the above into consideration, and while I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs B, I dont think the car was of an unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to her. And I wont be asking Moneybarn to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint about Moneybarn No.1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman