DRN-2708040
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Mrs E says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Mrs E opened a store card account in a shop in 2002. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Es card each 
month if shed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if shed lost her job. 
It also included some purchase and price protection insurance and life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs E disagreed with 
the adjudicators view. So the complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Es application for the store card. It includes a short section on 
Account Cover (a form of PPI). The section is headed Protecting your account. It 
instructs the applicant only to sign if they required the cover. It says Yes, I would like to 
protect my Account with Account Cover, and it continues Please debit my Account with 
the relevant monthly premium until further notice. Theres a space to sign. Mrs E signed 
specifically to indicate that she wished to take the cover, in addition to signing the form 
overall.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Mrs E would have realised that the PPI 
wasnt compulsory. And I think the policy was added to her account because she chose 
to take it. But I can understand how she may no longer remember this, so long after the 
event.
Mrs Es told us she cant remember whether AXA recommended the PPI to her. AXA 
says it wouldnt have done. And based on what we know about the way these policies 
were sold at the time, I think thats likely to be right. This means AXA didnt have to 
check that the PPI was suitable for Mrs E. But it did need to make sure it gave her 
enough information to enable her to decide for herself whether she wanted PPI, knowing 
what alternative means shed have had of making her monthly repayments if she was 
unable to work.
Ive borne in mind that Mrs Es told us shed only have been entitled to statutory sick pay 
at the time. If shed made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, it would have paid a monthly benefit of 15% of what she owed on her 
store card. And it would have done this each month until her credit agreement ended, or 
she returned to work, or the outstanding balance at the time of her claim had been repaid 
- whichever happened first. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any sick 
pay Mrs E received. So she could have used that to cover other day-to-day expenses. 
Taking everything into account, I think the policy could have been useful for Mrs E, 
especially as shes told us that aside from her limited sick pay, she didnt have any other 
means she could have used to make her monthly store card repayments if shed been 
unable to work.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mrs E chose to take out the PPI - so it 
looks as if she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now. 
Based on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, Mrs E was eligible for 
the policy, and she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things it 
didnt cover (for example, provisions regarding unusual working arrangements or existing 
medical conditions). 
Im satisfied that it was clear from the application form that Mrs E wold need to make monthly 
payments for the policy. Those payments would have been shown clearly on Mrs Es 
monthly store card statements. And since she was paying for it monthly, she could have 
cancelled it at any time if her circumstances changed, or if she decided she no longer 
wanted the cover.
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information about the PPI 
would have put Mrs E off taking it out. It follows that I dont think Mrs E has lost out as a 
result of anything AXA may have done wrong.
Ive taken account of all Mrs Es comments, including what her representative has said about 
Mrs E not having been told about her right to cancel the policy, or about any cooling off 
period. But Im satisfied that Mrs E chose to take out the policy. Her right to cancel the cover 
was set out in the policy document, which Im satisfied, on balance, would have been 
provided to her. And if shed decided she didnt want the cover after all, but wasnt sure how 
to go about cancelling it, she could have contacted AXA. So this doesnt change my 
conclusion.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman