DRN-2371181
The complaint
Mr U complains Phoenix Wealth Services Limited stopped his pension payments without 
explanation causing him a financial loss.
What happened
Mr U has a unit-linked pension plan with Phoenix, split into four tranches, some of which is 
crystallised and in capped drawdown. The amount he can draw down is determined by rates 
set by the Government Actuarys Department (GAD) and reviewed every three years. Mr U 
receives monthly payments direct to his bank account, but between August 2018 and 
January 2019 he received no payments or advice slips and no explanation.
In January 2019 Mr Us then financial advisor G contacted Phoenix to find out what had 
gone wrong. Phoenix explained the problem arose during a migration to a new IT system. It 
apologised, made a catch up payment of around £7,330 and sent out a P60. Mr U received 
the February payment as usual, but then his payments stopped again. Phoenix said it had 
performed a reconciliation and realised the catch-up payment had been too high, so it 
paused the payments on all four tranches for March and April 2019 to erode some of the 
overpayment. Following a GAD review for tranches 1 and 2 it made an income payment for 
those tranches in May 2019. Tranches 3 and 4 were reviewed in June but payment for those 
tranches was withheld to erode some more of the overpayment. This left an overpaid 
balance of £1,563 which Phoenix allowed Mr U to keep. It also said it would pay 8% interest 
on the missing payments which it calculated as £60 plus £100 for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr U said the lack of income meant hed had to rely on his overdraft which charges him in 
excess of 40%. Phoenix said it would assess any further financial impact such as overdraft 
fees Mr U had paid on production of suitable evidence. 
Mr U complained to this service. He wasnt happy Phoenix had responded to G rather than 
to him personally. He didnt think hed received any extra money as it had just come out of 
his own drawdown fund. His fund had fallen in value, so he worried it hadnt been invested. 
Hed provided a spreadsheet to show his overdraft charges and was unhappy Phoenix didnt 
accept this. And he didnt think £100 made up for him being in a financial black hole for a 
year.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and agreed Phoenix had made 
some errors. But it was entitled to respond to G as Mr Us representative. She was satisfied 
the overpayment was sent not from Mr Us own drawdown fund but from Phoenixs own 
funds, so it was an additional payment. She thought it was fair for Phoenix to pay interest on 
the missing payments at 8% simple, and for Mr U to provide evidence of the overdraft 
charges hed paid if he wanted Phoenix to consider those. And £100 was in line with what 
shed recommend, so she didnt require Phoenix to do more. 
Mr U disagreed. He wanted a clear explanation of what happened and a full reconciliation of 
his pension so he can be sure he hasnt lost out. He still thinks his corrected P60 is wrong 
and overall is uncomfortable about the whole situation. So its been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Phoenix has done enough to put things right. Let me explain why.
Mr U is unhappy at the overall way Phoenix managed the migration to a new IT system and 
how it responded to the problems which arose. But the role of this service is to resolve 
disputes for individual consumers. We are not the industry regulator so cannot tell a 
business how it should operate or punish them for the mistakes they make. But its not in 
dispute something went wrong with Mr Us pension payments. 
Mr U should have been receiving monthly payments of £640.11 net (£880.11 gross). The 
systems migration caused Mr Us payments to stop for six months, so once the problem had 
been drawn to Phoenixs attention it should have sent him a catch-up payment of £3,840.66 
(£640.11 x 6). But Phoenix miscalculated and sent him £7,329.84, an overpayment of 
£3,489.28. I think at this point Phoenix should have alerted Mr U and explained how they 
intended to put things right. The February payment was received correctly but then the 
payments stopped again to partly correct the overpayment. So for the period August 2018 to 
April 2019 Mr U received £8,018.34 instead of £6,454.99, an overpayment of £1,565.35. 
Putting things right was complicated due to the requirement for GAD reviews at the same 
time. And Phoenix sent Mr U an incorrect P60, so it had to send a corrected one in August 
2019. I understand this was concerning for Mr U and why he has questioned the actions 
Phoenix took to put things right. 
But Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr Us funds werent invested throughout, or that any fall in 
value is connected to the problems he experienced. 
Theres no dispute that Phoenix made some errors and compounded these when it tried to 
sort things out. It has written off the overpayment of more than £1,500 and agreed to pay 
interest at 8% simple for the missing payments, which is what Id expect. It has also offered 
£100 for the trouble and upset he experienced, and to consider reimbursing the additional 
charges (such as overdraft interest) Mr U paid as a result of this situation. 
Mr U has estimated the overdraft interest hes been charged but hasnt provided evidence to 
show the actual additional financial impact of the missing payments. Ive seen an email trail 
between Mr U and his advisor G in which Mr U explains his facilitys charging structure, and 
that his overdraft averaged around £4,000 so over 15 months would cost about £2,587, 
based on missing payments of around £800 per month. But from what Ive seen that 
overstates the amount and length of time Mr U was without his payments and doesnt show 
what hes actually been charged and when. 
Mr U has provided Phoenix with a spreadsheet in a csv format which he says shows the 
additional overdraft interest he paid due to being deprived of his regular monthly payments 
for a six-month period. But I think Phoenix is entitled to say what evidence to support his 
claim it would accept (for example copy bank statements or downloads in PDF format from 
Mr Us online banking). My understanding is Phoenixs offer to assess his additional costs is 
still open to Mr U if he provides evidence in an acceptable format. But I think the offer to 
write off the overpayment, pay interest on the missing payments at 8% simple per year and 
£100 for the trouble and upset is fair. So I wont be asking Phoenix to do more.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint in the sense the offer of redress made by Phoenix Wealth 
Services Limited to resolve the complaint is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman