DRN-3430733
The complaint
Miss F says the advice given and the arrangements made by Foster Denovo Limited (FDL) 
to transfer her occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits to an alternative provider and 
the associated investments made were unsuitable.
Miss F is represented by Barretts Financial Solutions (BFS).
What happened
Miss F approached FDL in September 2018 following the recommendation of an existing 
client. She wanted advice about her pension arrangements. Between September and 
December 2018 it gathered information about her circumstances, objectives and matters 
such as her attitude to risk. These were captured in a Personal and Financial Profile (fact-
find).
Miss F was a member of two defined benefit (DB) pension schemes. As well as accruing 
these deferred benefits, she was also a member of a defined contribution (DC) scheme. And 
shed made additional voluntary contributions (AVCs). The total transfer value of these 
benefits was around £637,300.
FDL produced two Retirement Planning Recommendation Reports (suitability reports) dated 
31 January 2019 and 6 February 2019. In these it advised Miss F to transfer her DB and DC 
funds into a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Standard Life. This was completed 
by March 2019. FDL recommended she should keep about £38,000 in cash to meet fees for 
the new arrangement and her short-term income requirements. The residual money was to 
be placed in several investments which matched her assessed attitude to risk.
Unfortunately, a year later Miss F had cause to complain about the advice shed received. 
She raised several concerns. For example, she said that shed wanted to use tax-free cash 
(TFC) from her pension benefits to pay down the mortgage on her UK property. She thought 
there were deficiencies in the cash-flow analysis it had provided. She was worried about the 
volatility of her SIPP given the need to access funds. And she raised matters related to 
FDLs charges.
FDL rejected Miss Fs complaint. It said that paying down the mortgage on her UK property 
using TFC from her pension fund hadnt been an objective. It said its recommendations 
provided for the flexibility shed wanted, so that she could take pension benefits at the time it 
suited her lifestyle and retirement plans. It said shed been aware of and comfortable with 
the potential for her investments to fluctuate in value. And that it had fully explained and 
disclosed the fees shed pay for its work.
The Investigator upheld Miss Fs case. He didnt think FDL had clearly demonstrated that the 
transfer of her safeguarded DB funds was in her best interests. He thought that if it had 
advised her not to proceed, shed have accepted its advice and the whole transaction 
including the switch of her DC benefits wouldnt have happened.
FDL disagreed. It thought the Investigator had placed too much weight on the financial 
comparison between Miss Fs benefits under her former schemes and that available from 
her new arrangements. It said these funds only accounted for around half her retirement 
provision. It reiterated that the repayment of her UK mortgage hadnt been one of her 
objectives. And it said the advantages of the new arrangements included flexibility of 
accessing pension benefits and better death benefits  both of which were priorities for her.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings, Miss Fs complaint was 
passed to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision in March. FDL disagreed 
with my initial findings and conclusions. Ill address FDLs main arguments in this final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Miss Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Miss Fs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by FDL for Miss F. The FCA Handbook contains 11 Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3 - which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like FDL. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Miss Fs complaint.
At the time of the advice FDL gave Miss F, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from an OPS scheme (bolding is my emphasis):
(2) When a firm is making a personal recommendation for a retail client who is, or is eligible 
to be, a member of a pension scheme with safeguarded benefits and who is considering whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, 
conversion or opt-out will not be suitable.
(3) A firm should only consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can 
clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out 
is in the retail clients best interests.
To do this FDL had to take into account a range of factors including Miss Fs intentions for 
accessing her pension benefits; her attitude to and understanding of the risks of both giving 
up her safeguarded benefits and of making investments; her realistic income requirements in 
retirement; and alternative ways in which her objectives could be achieved without 
transferring from her OPS.
Under COBS 19.1.2B, FDL was required to conduct an appropriate pension transfer 
analysis. It had to:
(1) Assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available under the ceding arrangement;
(2) Compare (1) with those benefits and options available under the proposed arrangement; 
and
(4) Undertake the analysis in (1), (2)in accordance with COBS 19 Annex 4A and COBS 19 
Annex 4C.
COBS 19.1.3A required FDL to compare the transfer value offered by Miss Fs OPS provider 
for her safeguarded benefits with the estimated cost at the time of the advice to purchase the 
future income benefits available under her existing scheme using a pension annuity. It had to 
inform her of such.
COBS 2.1.1 R required a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client, in relation to designated investment business carried on for a retail 
client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging (bringing 
about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
In 2009 the then Financial Services Authority published a checklist that I think is still helpful 
today when considering the switch of non-safeguarded pension benefits. It highlighted four 
key issues it thought should be focussed on:
- Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their 
existing one or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
- Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? This 
could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed annuity rate 
or the right to take benefits early.
- Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded attitude 
to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
- Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need for 
ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Did FDL meet the regulatory obligations placed on it in its dealings with Miss F?I dont think FDL met its regulatory obligations  Ill explain why.
Firstly Ill deal with some of the differences between the parties about what happened during 
the advice process. Its unfortunate that after a short space of time Miss F and FDL formed 
different recollections. Ive no reason to doubt that both parties hold their positions in good 
faith.
A particular point of contention is whether Miss F had been clear paying down the mortgage 
on her UK property was a priority that needed to be accounted for. Ive been provided with 
two fact-find documents, the first is dated 26 September 2018 and appears to capture the 
hand-written notes of both parties. The second is dated 1 December 2018 and is typed-up.
FDL provided helpful clarification, it says the initial fact-find was completed by Miss F and at 
the first meeting additional commentary was added by its adviser. It said the second fact-find 
was produced to make things easier to follow. The problem is that there are some significant 
differences between the paperwork, and these seem to speak to some of the problems that 
gave rise to Miss Fs complaint.
For example, the fact-find conducted in September 2018, with Miss F and the advisers 
hand-written commentary, identifies her reason for seeking financial advice in the following 
terms:
Looking to take redundancy package and/or manage my properties and savings to give me 
liveable income. Full Review of pensions.
The earlier fact-find sets out the plans for all four of her properties, and this included the sale 
of two of her overseas properties and paying off the interest only mortgage on her UK 
residence. Her lifestyle expectations in retirement were to take holidays, eat out and buy 
sports equipment. She wanted to maximise her income until she reached 90. The threshold 
of £3,000 per month seems to have been identified as a minimum net income from 60 until 
she reached 75 and thereafter a minimum of £2,000. A note is also added that there would 
be no mortgages when she took her benefits.
The second fact-find from December 2018 records Miss F was seeking financial advice 
because she wanted a full review of her pensions. This is a much narrower focus than 
indicated in September 2018. Its also silent on plans for her two remaining properties, 
including what to do about the expiry of the existing mortgage on her house in the UK. The 
second fact-find did confirm plans for major expenditure of £8,000 and a net income 
requirement of £36,000 a year.
FDL says repaying Miss Fs mortgage was not a stated objective at the time the advice was 
provided. It says taking TFC from her SIPP was never sufficient to fully repay the mortgage. 
That the mortgage had a low loan to value ratio and was easily affordable against a rental 
income of £18,000 per year. It said given market conditions at the time she wouldnt have 
had any issues finding a replacement mortgage. So, there was no sound mathematical 
reason for the mortgage to be repaid early.
I dont know what discussions happened between the parties about Miss Fs circumstances 
and plans. But I can see that in its suitability report of 31 January 2019 on page seven 
theres a specific section about the mortgage repayment. It said (bolding is my emphasis):
You have an outstanding interest-only mortgage of £225,000 on your London property and 
you are happy to leave this in situ for the time being as the monthly income payments are 
affordable and are easily covered by the rental you receive.Going forward, several options are open to you regarding your properties  one being that 
you continue to own and rent out the London property and retain the mortgage to mortality. 
Another option is that you sell either your London or French property and use the proceeds 
to repay the mortgage. Although you have made no firm decision on this at present, any 
property sale will most likely occur around when you are age 75.
I think its more likely than not the suitability report reflects the actual position at the time  
no firm decision had been taken about what to do. Given the significance of the matter, it 
would of course have been incumbent on FDL to have made Miss F aware that the decision 
here wouldve had a material impact on planning for her retirement.
Another matter which has raised debate between the parties is Miss Fs base for tax and 
pension matters. It seems she spent significant time in both France and the UK. On the first 
fact-find its recorded she was domicile in France. In the second it says UK. I note that one of 
the matters she complained to FDL about in March 2020 was it had got these matters wrong. 
In her complaint, Miss F told FDL she was resident in France, paying tax in France and was 
unlikely to return to the UK and pay tax there. This matter was important to get to the bottom 
of because of the impact of the different tax regimes in operation. For example, I understand 
that in France, there isnt TFC as such, social and income tax charges would apply. The 
suitability report produced by FDL is silent on the issue.
As an aside, BFS informed this Service that Miss F has taken TFC from her pension 
provision  and so presumably has decided she is domiciled in the UK. 
I think this is more likely than not another example of where at the time of the advice Miss F 
had yet to make a firm decision.
Another area of contention between the parties concerns who Miss F saw during the advice 
process. Two of FDLs staff were involved. The first and main contact with her was an 
investment adviser (Mr A). The second individual was responsible for the pension transfer 
advice (Mr B). Its important to note only authorised individuals are able to provide advice on 
OPS pension transfers. So theres no sense in which this division of labour within FDL was 
inappropriate, indeed Im sure it was following regulatory requirements.
Miss F initially said shed never met Mr B and had no recollection of speaking with him. 
Although most recently her representative has confirmed he mayve been present during a 
meeting scheduled with Mr A. But she maintains he was never involved in the advice 
process.
I think Miss F did have dealings with Mr B as well as Mr A. I say this because Ive seen an 
exchange of emails, which touches on a prior conversation between the two where Mr B 
seeks further information from her, which she responded to. The suitability reports are also 
from Mr B. That said, Ive no reason to doubt Miss F mainly dealt with Mr A, and that she 
was unclear about the respective roles of both advisers.
Next Ill address FDLs observation about the scope of Miss Fs original complaint and how 
matters have evolved. It said:
Our understanding is that the clients concerns were, initially at least, more related to the 
investment losses and volatility of the funds; the transfer met her requirements and the 
complaint seem to have come about due to her having panicked somewhat when the value 
of her pension fell in 2020. We understand these fears and would have liked to work with 
Miss F to support her through this period.Concerning the scope of Miss Fs complaint. This Service has an inquisitorial remit to identify 
the root cause of any complaint. The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) says 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) should make rules for us, which mean that we 
shouldn't look at a complaint if a consumer hasnt communicated its 'substance' to the 
business.
So, its not about the way Miss F has expressed her complaint but about what the crux or 
substance of her concern is really about. The DISP rules required FDL to look fairly at the 
'subject matter', get more information when it needed to and be both thorough and impartial. 
The rules also stress it had to look at all the evidence, and the specific circumstances of her 
complaint.
This service must also think about what lies at the heart of a complaint and look at the whole 
picture. This approach was recognised in court in R (Williams) v Financial Ombudsman 
Service [2008] EWHC 2142:
"The ombudsman is dealing with complaints, not causes of action. His jurisdiction is 
inquisitorial not adversarial. There is a wide latitude within which the ombudsman can 
operate."
Miss Fs concerns range across several matters including a failure by FDL to understand her 
objectives and circumstances; the taking on of unwanted risk; and concerns about charges 
applied. So, its reasonable for this Service to consider the advice that led her to give up a 
guaranteed, regular, pension in favour of a SIPP arrangement and associated investments.
This Service wouldnt have been considering Miss Fs concerns properly if it hadnt looked at 
the advice process as a whole; its what she asked this Service to do. So, Im satisfied that I 
can look at the issue of Miss Fs OPS benefits and how they came to be transferred to a 
SIPP.
Im also satisfied FDL has had an opportunity to fully respond to these broader matters. Both 
following the Investigators view and again following my provisional decision. It follows that I 
dont think its been subject to unfair process.
FDL has questioned the status of BFS, in particular its credentials as a claims management 
company (CMC). To my knowledge, BFS hasnt held itself out as a CMC, it is Miss Fs 
current financial adviser and she has asked it to represent her in her case. A consumer can 
ask anyone to help them bring their complaint to this Service as long as they have given us 
the proper authority, as is the case here.
Ill now set these broader matters to one side and turn to the core issues in this case.
There are several documents relating to FDLs transaction with Miss F that are important to 
my consideration, these include the fact-find and suitability reports. Ive thought carefully 
about the testimony of both parties and other communications such as the various email 
exchanges.
The regulatory position sets a high bar, which FDL must be able to clearly demonstrate was 
met, on contemporaneous evidence, that the transfer from her DB scheme was in Miss Fs 
best interests. Im not satisfied its managed to do this in the circumstances of this case.
At the time of the advice Miss F was 58. Its recorded that she was single with no 
dependents and had a brother and a niece/nephew. Miss F has told this Service that actually 
she was still married but had been estranged from her husband for some time. She hadnt ruled out the prospect of getting married again at some future point. And that she had two 
sisters, nephews and nieces. 
Although again the parties seem a little at odds over some of the details  I think its 
reasonable for FDL to have relied on the information Miss F provided as part of the fact-find 
process.
Miss F worked part-time earning around £20,000 a year. She also received about £18,000 in 
rent from a property. Her annual expenditure was estimated at £24,000. Miss F was said to 
have £123,000 in savings and about £12,000 in shares. She had a property in France worth 
around £400,000 which was unencumbered. And a property in the UK worth £650,000 with 
an interest only mortgage of £225,000. The mortgage was due to mature in 2020. Aside from 
her pensions she had no other assets. She had no other liabilities.
Miss F was a member of two DB pension schemes. She accrued benefits during her service 
with a bank and separately working for an airline. In addition, following the closure of the 
airlines OPS, she joined its defined contribution DC scheme. She had also made additional 
voluntary contributions (AVCs). These were her only pension funds.
The transfer value of Miss Fs DB funds from the banks scheme was £23,300. The transfer 
value of her DB and DC funds from the airlines scheme was about £614,000 (of which 
around £572,000 was her DB pot).
FDL produced two suitability reports for Miss F, one dated 31 January 2019 and a second 
dated 6 February 2019. Her objectives were recorded in the following terms:
- You are looking to retire at age 60 and will require approximately £36,000 per annum 
net  this should increase in line with inflation each year.
- You would like to receive this income as tax efficiently as possible.
- You are also aware that your spending patterns may vary at different stages of your 
life You feel it is likely that you will be more active between the ages of 60 and 75 
before probably settling down for a quieter life There is also the question of future 
potential care home fees to consider. Therefore, you would still like the option to vary 
this amount (should you need to) in line with your changing circumstances. As such, 
the ability to receive your income in as flexible a manner as possible is a key 
requirement for you.
- It is also important to you that your beneficiaries can benefit from your pension 
arrangements in the event of death.
FDL recommended that Miss F should transfer her DB and DC funds into a Standard Life 
SIPP. Her funds would be invested according to her attitude to risk. It said the new 
arrangements would meet her requirement for a flexible income. That she could take 
£36,000 net a year (increasing annually in line with assumed inflation) from her pension. 
That the proposed arrangement would deliver better death benefits. And that shed be able 
to access different investments according to her risk appetite.
In responding to my provisional decision FDL said:
We are fully aligned with the FCAs principles and always adopt the starting point of Do Not 
Transfer. The only reason that a transfer is ever recommended is when a clients 
(reasonable) objectives cannot otherwise be met and on condition that stress tests are 
satisfied. These tests ensure that, even under adverse conditions such as loss of 
employment income or market shocks, that retirement needs continue to be met.In the case of Miss F the objectives, needs and circumstances articulated to us could not be 
met (mathematically) without a transfer and stress tests conducted were satisfied.
Miss F (recorded fact) wanted to front load her retirement income, for the first c15 years, 
with the understanding that the income at this level would then reduce in later years, when 
she anticipated her income needs would reduce.
So, Ive considered the options that were available to Miss F to deliver the income she was 
said to require in retirement, and her need for flexibility to deliver her plans. Im particularly 
interested in what happened to her safeguarded DB benefits from her main scheme because 
these formed the bulk of her pension provision.
Turning first to the financial case for this transaction. FDL was required to inform Miss F 
about the comparison between the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) that shed been 
offered from her DB scheme with an indication of what it could cost to replace those scheme 
benefits. FDL told her that the CETV shed receive was about £572,000. It found that to 
obtain the same benefits she enjoyed with her existing scheme, she would need to pay an 
insurer in the UK annuity market around £872,000.
My first observation is basic. It wasnt until page 20 of the report that FDL set out the 
comparator analysis. It followed various technical sections. The executive summary was 
from page 1 and the recommendations on page 4  neither provided this information. It 
needed to give more prominence and proper context to this information, which was a 
regulatory requirement. It didnt communicate in a way that was clear and fair on this 
important matter.
The comparator was essentially pointing to the potential substantial erosion of the value of 
her pension benefits if they were transferred. The value of this erosion was about £300,000 
or over 34%. In responding to the Investigator FDL said that bearing in mind Miss F didnt 
have a spouse and was likely to take her TFC, the disparity was reduced to about £120,000.
In my provisional decision I said that I found FDL had made a big leap to assume that Miss F 
who wasnt even 60 would never find another partner. Shed been married previously and so 
discounting spousal benefits without foundation was unsafe.
In responding FDL provided evidence to show that Miss F hadnt made any contributions to 
her main OPS to provide for a survivors pension. I think this is a strong argument that my 
focus shouldnt be on the £300,000 figure because that wouldnt be comparing like with like. 
So, Ive focussed on the lower of the benefit value shortfall figures of £120,000.
I note that even on this basis the erosion of benefits on transfer equates to around 17%. This 
also excludes the potential for her OPS to have provided a statutory minimum payment to 
any future spouse or civil partner in the event of her passing of around £3,000. 
FDL says the transfer value comparator analysis is just one element in a wider weighing of 
the advantages and disadvantages when considering the transfer of pension benefits  I 
agree. But on this measure, flags were being raised.
Next Ive thought about Miss Fs target for net income in retirement  she wanted £36,000. 
Based on the information available, this was a significant uplift compared with her then 
current net earnings of, say, around 20%. The December 2018 fact-find records that shed 
comfortably be able to live off this income.
In its January 2019 suitability report, FDL confirmed that if Miss F accessed her main DB 
pension at the scheme retirement age (less than two years away), and assuming she took the TFC of £134,000, then shed receive a net annual pension of around £16,800. This 
wouldve increased each year to take into account inflation. Together with assumed net 
rental income of about £16,900, shed be short of her target net income by around £2,300 a 
year.
I find this a minor shortfall, for several reasons. Ill turn to the assets Miss F had available to 
her later. But given Miss F had a smaller DB pension that would become payable when she 
reached 60, had she taken that pot as income, that wouldve added another £1,100 to her 
annual income reducing the gap to around £1,200 a year. She could easily have met this 
gap, if she needed to, by drawing on some of her TFC.
In simple terms, I think Miss F couldve comfortably met her income requirements for 
retirement from her existing DB provisions. There was no need for her to transfer her 
benefits to meet this objective.
FDL reasonably points to the position on death benefits comparing her OPS with the new 
arrangements it advised her on. Theres no question that in the event of her passing, Miss 
Fs potential beneficiaries  her sisters, nephews and nieces  wouldve been better off 
following the transfer of her pensions. 
But as FDL knows, pensions are to provide an income in retirement. Miss F didnt have a 
partner at the time nor any dependents. She was in good health. The matter of pension 
death benefits in this case was a second order concern.
That leaves the question of flexibility. I do think its important to recognise Miss Fs stated 
position on this. In responding to key questions from FDLs adviser, she said:
I understand that I have a very good DB scheme, however this pension will grow as I get 
older. I am at present very active and adventurous and have the health to support that 
lifestyle. I have looked into the pros and cons of taking my pension out of the [DB] scheme 
for 2 years now and I have finally reached the conclusion that I would prefer to have more 
money whilst I am young and fit do the things I aspire to than having a lot of money on my 
70's and 80's when my needs will be less. So although I am giving up a guaranteed income I 
think on balance I would prefer to take a risk and have a flexible income when I want it. 
It is very important to me to be able to take more money now whilst I can enjoy it than 
having a lot of money later in life when I may not be fit to enjoy that income. My needs will 
get less as time goes on. I see that with my parents now.
I am fully aware that an investment in a SIPP may not bring dividends and that I may run 
out of money in that fund but the projection is that that will not be until I am in my 70's . I will 
not expect to go on an extreme motorbike tour in the Himalaya (which I am planning now) in 
my 70's nor go ski touring in Antarctica etc but I do want to do that now. So if my investment 
under performs I will have at least done those things and if I live long enough to need more if 
that happens I can live off my state pension and my rental income or sell a property and re 
invest that. If there is a market downturn it surely cant last forever.
I do feel that income flexibility outweighs the benefits of a fixed income from my [main OPS] 
pension because of the reasons stated above. I have no dependants so I will actually be 
quite annoyed to think I will have a lot of money left when I die. I want to enjoy life now whilst 
I am fit enough to. I don't have to provide for a family or leave an inheritance to children.
To finish, this is not a snap decision, rather something I have looked into for a long time and 
wavered between the two options a lot, but finally it comes down to a lifestyle choice and I 
choose to live now.On the face of it what FDL was proposing couldve been useful to Miss F. Moving to a SIPP 
couldve enabled her to draw more of her pension benefits upfront to cater for all the plans 
she had for her retirement.
Miss F was responding to some questions written down by Mr B. FDL pointed out these 
were open questions designed to confirm her understanding of the risks being taken and the 
benefits being given up. It says the questions were asked following detailed discussions, 
they were not in isolation and were not simply at the beginning of the advice process. The 
responses were in her own words with no influence from it.
Ive no reason to doubt what FDL says. The point I was making in my provisional decision 
was that it then needed to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised her about what 
was in her best interest for retirement planning. It knew pots built up over many years are to 
provide for the whole of retirement. Some future costs could be large and lumpy  for 
example, as it recorded as part of her objectives, potential care costs as she got older. Ive 
not seen evidence of this deeper consideration.
Miss F had £123,000 in savings. She had £12,000 of shares. She also owned two homes  
these had a value of about £1,050,000. Miss F also had the option of taking TFC from her 
DB pensions when she was 60 of around £140,000. Leaving aside the pension income shed 
receive from her DB schemes, she also had benefits in DC plans with investments worth 
around £47,000.
So, it cant be in dispute that Miss F had very significant assets. Its clear that she wanted to 
travel, be adventurous and enjoy retirement fully, and that this would likely entail some 
frontloading of her cash flow requirements over the coming years. She also had to address 
her outstanding mortgage of £225,000, renewing, reducing or clearing it.
In responding to my provisional decision FDL said:
The mathematics of the case are that Miss F had the option of remaining in the Scheme 
and this would have provided TFC of £134,000 and pension income of £21,000 pa. She 
already had liquid assets of £135,000 (savings of £123,000 and shares of £12,000). If, as 
Miss F now states that what she wanted to do all along, was to repay her mortgage, this 
would reduce her liquid assets substantially to £44,000. 
This would have been all she was left with in terms of liquid assets and therefore the 
flexibility element that was an important element of both Miss Fs objectives and the 
subsequent recommendation would have been severely diminished as she would have been 
left with pension income of £21,000 pa gross and rental income of £18,000 pa gross.
Therefore the statement that Miss F retained considerable flexibility by not transferring 
is not mathematically accurate. This would have left Miss F with approx. £39,000 gross pa 
income plus £40,000 of liquid assets and 2 properties, one of which she lived in the other 
helped to provide income.
 
We do not see how this level of income would meet Miss Fs stated objectives to achieve 
the sort of lifestyle that Miss F had planned on retirement?...
I understand the case FDL makes. But I find several weaknesses that undermine its 
argument. Miss F had noted shed comfortably be able to live on a net income of £36,000 a 
year  implying it gave her some latitude. Its own calculations showed her existing OPS 
provision brought her very close to that objective, with no risk being taken on by her. 
Much has been made of Miss Fs desired lifestyle in retirement and how this wouldve 
required substantial capital to enable it. But even if shed used some of her assets to pay-off her UK mortgage, FDL notes she wouldve still had over £40,000 to draw on. The real 
problem here is that it never quantified what her capital requirements were likely to be in 
respect of her retirement plans.
I also disagree with FDL when it says it isnt mathematically accurate to say Miss F already 
had considerable flexibility in her financial position prior to the transfer of her pensions. Ive 
already set out the substantial breadth and scale of her assets.
Ultimately, FDL hasnt clearly demonstrated, as it was required to do, that the only way Miss 
F could meet her requirements was to transfer her DB benefits. And that to do so was in her 
best interests. Miss F already had considerable flexibility. Her assets provided a diversified 
portfolio of risk.
It was FDLs role to discern what Miss Fs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what it thought she wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due 
care and skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in her best interests. It hasnt 
demonstrated that it met these obligations.
I think there are some weaknesses in how FWS assessed her appetite for risk. In its 
suitability report FDL reported Miss F has a low end of moderate to adventurous risk appetite 
- 7 on a scale of 1 (lowest) to 10 (highest). This was defined in the following terms:
You are prepared to take a medium degree of risk with your investment in return for the 
prospect of improving longer term investment performance. Short term capital protection is 
not important to you and you are willing to sacrifice some long term protection for the 
likelihood of greater returns. A typical Moderate to Adventurous investor will be invested 
mainly in equities but with other assets included to provide some diversification. There may 
be a small amount of specialised equity within the portfolio. Because you are a Low end of 
Moderate to Adventurous investor there will be slightly more invested in fixed interest and 
cash.
I think this reflects Miss Fs answers to the detailed questionnaire she completed about her 
risk outlook. But Ive not seen much evidence of test and challenge. I think this wouldve 
been important. Theres no evidence Miss F was an investment professional or a 
sophisticated investor. Indeed, FDL knew her experience was limited. She had savings, she 
made regular contributions to her employers pension scheme and she held shares in the 
company she worked for. This is important context when I consider what happened to her. 
An important element of a risk appetite assessment is understanding a clients capacity for 
loss. FDL said of Miss F:
Her income requirement of £36,000 net per annum can be met from a combination of rental 
income, various pensions and her state pension when it becomes payable. This is supported 
via cashflow modelling analysis, using Voyant. We have also completed a stress test 
scenario whereby the [main DB scheme] is transferred to a SIPP and investment markets 
suffer a 30% fall in value at age 60. In this scenario, the cashflow modelling indicates that 
her income requirements can still be met throughout her lifetime and there will be an amount 
left in her estate when she dies.
Ive covered Miss Fs asset position already. And we know she wanted to use these in 
respect of her retirement planning. So Id agree with FDL that she did have some capacity 
for loss. But Im also mindful that her pensions remained a key element of her provision in 
retirement.
More generally, Im not satisfied that Miss F fully understood that by moving away from her 
OPS scheme and using the funds to invest, she was moving from a situation where her former employer was bearing the risks related to the provision of her retirement income to 
one where she was taking on that risk. And that altered the risk profile of her whole portfolio 
of assets.
On balance, I think FDLs assessment overstates Miss Fs risk appetite a little. I know FDL 
disagrees with my opinion on this matter. But my finding is largely academic. Ive already 
concluded that Miss Fs retirement objectives in terms of flexibility and income could be 
achieved without the transfer of her pensions. There was no need for her to either 
significantly, or very significantly  depending on ones view of her real risk appetite  
increase her risk exposure.
Ive already mentioned differences of account between Miss F and FDL about the events 
from 2019. From the information available, it seems that there were still some big issues she 
needed to settle before deciding what to do with her pension provision. For example in 
relation to where she would be domiciled, what she wanted to do with her property assets 
and her outstanding mortgage. The decision she would take on her pension arrangements 
was irreversible and would impact her position for her remaining lifetime.
In its recent response to my provisional decision FDL noted:
Reviewing the information that you have collected from Miss F, and comparing to our 
documented evidence, suggest that Miss F has had a change of heart in respect of what she 
was looking to achieve.
Another way of looking at what gave Miss F cause to complain so soon after shed had 
advice from FDL was that she remained uncertain about her plans. Ive already set out my 
findings in relation to the fact-finds Ive seen, which indicate such to me. Ive not seen 
evidence of how these were effectively brought to a head and decided on.
Earlier FDL had noted the option of Miss F delaying any decision until she was nearer 60. 
The rationale for dismissing this approach was that the transfer value offered might be 
reduced. I think this option was worthy of serious further exploration in the context of the 
significant uncertainties in Miss Fs circumstances. I dont think this required the hindsight of 
later developments.
Overall, I think FDL shouldve provided Miss F with an explicit recommendation not to 
proceed with the transfer of her DB scheme funds into a SIPP with Standard Life in January 
and February 2019. I think if shed received appropriate advice, she wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the transfer of any of her OPS benefits (DB or DC), including her associated 
AVCs.
To conclude I dont think the transfer of Miss Fs OPS pension funds could sensibly be 
regarded as fair to her. As such I think FDL failed to meet the regulatory requirements when 
providing her with advice and making the arrangements. So, taking all the circumstances of 
the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this complaint against FDL and for it to put 
things right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Miss Fs case. So, she needs to be returned to the position she wouldve been 
in now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I 
hold Foster Denovo Limited responsible for.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. My decision is Foster Denovo Limited should pay Miss F the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Foster Denovo Limited pays Miss F the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Foster Denovo Limited 
doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Miss F can accept my decision and 
go to court to ask for the balance. She may want to get independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
The DB scheme element of her transferred OPS benefits
I consider Miss F wouldve remained in her DB schemes, but for FDLs unsuitable advice 
and arrangements. It should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
pension review methodology, as updated by the FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Miss Fs acceptance of the decision.
FDL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Miss Fs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Miss Fs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
The DC scheme element of her transferred OPS benefits
For the DC and associated AVC component of Miss Fs transferred OPS benefits, FDL 
should look at how the investments in the scheme wouldve grown to the present and 
compare this to her existing investments derived from that part of the transfer, as at the date 
of calculation.
Any losses
If the redress calculations demonstrate a loss to Miss F, the compensation amount should if 
possible be paid into her pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss F as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed 
to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
Further informationSome examples of how calculations should be carried out are available on our website 
under 'Publications' / 'Online Technical Resource' / 'Investment' / 'Calculating compensation 
in investment complaints'.
Provision for an award of interest
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Miss F within 90 days of the date 
FDL receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes FDL to 
pay Miss F.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Distress and inconvenience
In addition, FDL should pay Miss F £200 for the unsuitable advice to transfer her retirement 
provision into a SIPP, which has caused her trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Miss Fs complaint. I require Foster 
Denovo Limited to put things right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman