DRN-3936424
The complaint
Mr N is a sole trader. He complains that Lloyds Bank PLC ignored his attempts to make 
repayments and settlement offers in relation to his Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan 
(CBIL). He also says that the bank opened the loan in his name, when it should have been 
in the name of a limited liability partnership (LLP). 
What happened
Mr N ran a business that had banked with Lloyds for some years. 
In 2020, the pandemic prevented him from trading and he successfully applied for a CBIL. 
His business later failed completely. 
In mid-2021, repayments on the CBIL were due and Mr N said he had no money to cover 
them. 
In August 2021, Mr N wrote to the bank and offered £3,000 in full and final settlement of the 
CBIL. The letter mentioned that he had previously offered £7,000. The bank didnt reply. 
In November 2021, the bank issued a formal demand for the CBIL for £25,001 plus a small 
amount of interest. The letter said the bank might begin enforcement action if the loan wasnt 
repaid in 14 days. 
Mr N complained that the bank was ignoring his attempts to contact them. The bank initially 
said they could find no record of any contact from Mr N. They then found his August 2021 
letter and apologised for not responding to it, but didnt accept his offer. 
Mr N asked the Financial Ombudsman to look into what had happened. In the course of our 
investigation, he also argued that the loan should have been in the name of a limited liability 
partnership (LLP), not a sole name (or a non-limited liability partnership). 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and didnt recommend upholding 
Mr Ns complaint. She thought the bank had acted reasonably by setting up the CBIL in the 
name of the entity that held the bank account and that C should have queried that if it was 
wrong. She also said that, although the bank should have replied to Mr Ns letter, it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to have rejected his settlement offer.  
Mr N asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter again. He made the following points, in 
summary: 
He had ticked the LLP box and written in the registered number for the LLP on the 
application form. 
Lloyds had set up the loan, so how would he know which name theyd put it into? 
Lloyds had later sent correspondence to the partners and asked for both partners 
signatures  but his existing business current account was a sole trader account. 
His settlement offers had been (and were still being) ignored.
Given the 80% Government backing, he couldnt see why the bank was ignoring a 
fair offer. 
Our investigator had mentioned that the bank needed to obtain income and 
expenditure information before considering a lower settlement offer. So why hadnt 
the bank asked for this information?
He had also made several small payments in an attempt to pay down his loan. He 
thought it was illegal for the bank not to accept these into the loan and let him pay 
what he could afford.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There have been some arguments made in this case about what is lawful in relation to 
repaying the loan in question. So Id like to begin by explaining that this service isnt a 
regulatory body or a Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an 
informal, impartial dispute resolution service. Whilst we take relevant law and regulation into 
account when arriving at our decisions, my role is to determine whether a fair outcome has 
occurred, after taking all the circumstances of the complaint into consideration.
It may be worth highlighting that the loan Mr N has taken out is a commercial loan to his 
business. This means that he doesnt have all the protections he would have if hed taken 
out a regulated personal loan. This is why as part of the CBIL application, Mr N had to sign a 
Declaration for exemption confirming that I/We understand that I/We will not have the 
benefit of the protection and remedies that would be available to me/us under the Financial 
Services and Market Act 2000 or under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 if this agreement 
were a regulated agreement under those Acts.
Theres been some confusion about some small payments Mr N told us hed made, so Ill 
start with my findings on those. I can see from the statement for the Loan Servicing Account 
(LSA) that Mr N made three payments into this account during 2022. At the time these 
payments were made, the CBIL was already in arrears. Interest on the loan was being 
debited to the LSA, resulting in the LSA becoming overdrawn. The bank was also adding 
unpaid item and unauthorised borrowing fees each month, so Mr Ns small payments were 
swallowed up by these fees and interest. 
I know Mr N feels the bank acted unfairly in not paying these amounts into the loan account. 
But Im not aware of any rules requiring the bank to transfer these amounts into a business 
loan in these circumstances. In any case, these payments were too small to have made any 
difference to the loan going into default and being transferred to the banks Recoveries 
department. I say this as they amounted in total to a fraction of the amount due each month. 
So I dont think it would have made any difference if the bank had used them to reduce the 
loan balance or the accumulated overdraft on the LSA. 
Ive also seen that the bank have recently decided to refund the fees charged to the LSA and 
have written to Mr N to explain that this is because they dont feel the fees were explained 
clearly enough. 
Both sides agree that Lloyds should have communicated better, and in particular, should 
have responded to Mr Ns letter of August 2021. However, the bank wasnt obliged to accept his offer in full and final settlement. Given the information the bank had at that point, and the 
amount of the offer compared with the amount of loan, Im satisfied that they would not have 
accepted this offer had they responded. So I dont think the lack of response has made a 
difference to the outcome. 
As our investigator explained, the Government backing for the BBL makes no difference to 
the approach the bank is expected to take when it goes into default. Banks are expected to 
make reasonable efforts to recover the debt, they cant just call in the Governments 
guarantee. So the guarantee shouldnt be a consideration in deciding whether a settlement 
offer is acceptable or not. 
Since Mr N referred his complaint to our service, Lloyds have written to Mr N making it clear 
that they would like to have a discussion with him to agree a mutually acceptable repayment 
plan and explaining who Mr N should contact in their Recoveries department. So I think that 
the bank have now taken steps to correct their earlier lack of responsiveness. Indeed, it may 
be that Mr N has now reached some kind of arrangement with them or its debt collection 
agents.  
Our investigator mentioned that the bank needed to obtain income and expenditure 
information before making a decision on a settlement offer. That may well be a part of its 
process, particularly before any repayment plan is agreed. I agree with Mr N that if the bank 
considers this information is required, then they should ask for it. But I dont think the 
absence of a request takes away any of Mr Ns obligation to repay the debt. I think income 
and expenditure is generally part of the discussion with Recoveries so I think it would follow 
from Mr N making contact with the bank as described above. 
In summary, although Lloyds communication could have been better on several fronts here, 
I dont think Mr N has suffered a loss or ended up in a worse position as a result. 
Should the CBIL have been in the name of a LLP? 
Mr N has said that he applied for the CBIL in the name of a LLP that he had set up in 2019. 
This company has since been dissolved and he therefore argues that the CBIL should be 
written off. 
Having looked carefully at the application form for the CBIL, I think its likely that Mr N 
intended to apply for the loan in the name of the LLP of which he was a partner. I say this 
because he ticked the LLP box on the form and provided the correct registered number of 
the LLP. Its clear that the bank didnt notice this and sent back the agreement with the 
unincorporated sections filled in. Mr N then signed this agreement, thereby accepting it in his 
own name.  
I agree that the bank should ideally have noticed the mention of the LLP on the CBIL 
application. That said, I can understand why they didnt as they were under pressure to 
process these loan applications fast in the midst of a pandemic, when everyone was newly 
working from home. 
Ive thought about what I think would have happened if Lloyds had noticed the discrepancy. I 
dont think its likely that the bank would have agreed to grant the loan to an LLP that didnt 
bank with them and of which they had no previous knowledge. So I dont think a CBIL in the 
name of the LLP would have been the outcome. Mr N was very keen to obtain the funds at that point, so I think its more likely than not that if 
Lloyds had noticed the LLP name, they would have rejected the application and he would 
have reapplied for a CBIL in his sole trader name  or else applied for the slightly later 
Bounce Bank Loan scheme in his sole trader name. (Lloyds only accepted bounce back loan 
applications from existing customers, so he couldnt have had a bounce back loan in the 
name of the LLP either). 
Mr N has argued that the correct legal form for the account is governed by Companies 
House not the bank, but I dont think its as straightforward as that suggests. Its possible for 
a sole trader business - or an unincorporated partnership - and a LLP with the same name to 
exist at the same time. So the bank couldnt just assume that a sole trader business had 
turned into a company, even if Lloyds had known the LLP existed, which I dont think they 
did. Theres no evidence that Mr N informed the bank of the LLPs existence before the CBIL 
application. 
I accept that Lloyds letters after the CBIL was agreed didnt make it clear in what name the 
loan had been set up. They addressed some letters to the partners and asked for both 
partners to sign a Data Protection agreement. So I dont think its surprising that Mr N hadnt 
noticed or queried what name the CBIL was in. But for the reasons explained above, I dont 
think that changed the outcome, as I dont think Lloyds would ever have given the LLP a 
loan. 
In order to decide what would be a fair outcome in this case, I need to take into 
consideration the fact that, regardless of what name Mr N would have liked the loan to be in, 
the funds were transferred to his business account and that business had use of them from 
there. Mr N has confirmed the money was used to keep the business going for a time. And 
Mr Ns actions in trying to agree a settlement have implied that he accepted he was liable. 
Overall, as Mr Ns business had use of the funds, I dont think it would be fair to say that the 
loan should be written off because the LLP is dissolved. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman