DRN-4454213
The complaint
Mr Js representative complains on his behalf that following a claim on his motor insurance 
policy held with Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited (Mulsanne) it failed to complete 
satisfactory repairs to his car. And it declined to refund to him the total costs related to car 
hire.
References to Mr J, or his representative, will include the other.
Mulsanne are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of the intermediary. As Mulsanne have accepted it is accountable for the actions 
of the intermediary, in my decision, any reference to Mulsanne includes the actions of the 
intermediary.
What happened
Mr J was involved in an incident whilst in his car. He made a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
The car was taken in for repairs at Mulsannes approved repairer and when it was returned 
Mr J said the repairs were not satisfactory. He said there were issues with the screen wash 
jets and parking sensors. The approved repairer said these issues were not accident related.
Mulsanne arranged for the car to be looked at by a second  approved repairer and it 
concluded the issues reported were not related to damage caused in the incident. However it 
decided to cover the cost for these repairs.
During the time Mr Js car was at the second approved repairer, Mulsanne agreed car hire 
and said it would reimburse the costs of this to him.
Mr Js car was returned to him, and he found it to be in full working order. He submitted the 
invoices for his car hire and asked for Mulsanne to reimburse him as agreed.
Mulsanne did not reimburse the full amount. It said Mr J had added roadside assistance 
protection and excess protection, and this was neither agreed to nor discussed. It declined to 
pay for two other charges that it could not identify. And said it could not be held liable for the 
£500 charged for damage reimbursement and therefore this was also declined.
As Mr J was not happy with Mulsanne, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said the 
evidence provided by Mulsanne supported its position that the washer jets and parking 
sensors werent as a result of the accident. They understood Mr J has not had to pay 
anything towards to repairs so he was not out of pocket. They said in relation to the car hire, 
as no extras were agreed they could not reasonably ask Mulsanne to reimburse those 
additional costs.
As Mr Js representative is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been 
brought to me for a decision to be made.
What I provisionally said
I saw that Mr J had to contact Mulsanne a number of times before his claim was agreed and 
his claim started. The incident occurred on 11 November 2022 and his car was taken in for 
repairs on 19 December 2022. I saw it was returned to him on 6 January 2023 at which point 
he was not happy with the repairs completed. 
Mr J said contacted the main dealer about the issues he found, and they suspected  the 
screen wash pipe work was either kinked or it was an issue within the water bottle. However 
it said it would need to be investigated and diagnosed to confirm this. Mr J also said there 
was no mention on the cars recent MOT inspection that there were issues with the screen 
washer pipe work.
I saw Mulsanne organised for the car to be inspected by a second approved repairer. This  
inspection also concluded that the damage to the screen wash jets, and parking sensors 
werent as a result of the accident. Although it did not agree the damage was accident 
related it decided to authorise the repairs taking into account the distress caused to Mr J.
. 
Based on the evidence I have reviewed and because Mr J has confirmed the car was back 
to full working order when it was returned in February 2023, I do not uphold this part of his 
complaint. 
Car hire
I listened to the call when Mulsanne agreed car hire for Mr J in February 2023. He was told 
organising it himself was the easiest and quickest way to progress this. He was given the 
option to either pay himself and Mulsanne would reimburse him straight away or he could 
wait for Mulsanne to pay. Mr J said he would pay himself and claim the costs back. He was 
not given any guidance about the limits to the car hire by the Mulsanne agent during this call. 
Mulsanne did not agree to pay all the costs on the car hire invoice submitted by Mr J. It 
declined to cover the charges for roadside assistance and excess protection and said this 
was because this was neither agreed nor discussed. It said it was unsure what one way and 
rfl charges were and said as they arent part of the core-rental agreement they would not be 
paid. 
Mr J was not given any guidance from Mulsanne about the limits and options he should take 
when he was advised to arrange and pay for car hire himself. In this case Mr J opted for a 
£500 excess protection. I think it was reasonable for him to opt for this. It was not a lower 
excess that was on his motor insurance policy, so he was not in a better position. 
I found that the rfl charge is for road tax during hire and Mr J had to pick up the car from the 
only garage in the local area that had a suitable car resulting in the one-way cost. In the 
circumstances of his claim I think both of these charges were core-rental costs and should 
be covered by Mulsanne.
As Mr Js motor insurance policy did not include roadside assistance, I agree that this cover 
was an additional extra and not something Mulsanne should cover. And as damage was 
caused to the hire car, whilst in Mr Js possession he should be responsible for payment of 
the damage reimbursement  charge. I dont think its reasonable for Mulsanne to pay for this.Therefore I intend to uphold Mr Js complaint and intend to require Mulsanne to settle the car 
hire invoice other than the cost for roadside assistance protection and the £500 damage 
reimbursement charge. It must also add 8% simple interest on the amount due from the date 
Mr J paid the invoice to the date he receives the outstanding payment. 
I understand that the outstanding amount of £266.92 for previous car hire costs has already 
been authorised and paid to Mr J by Mulsanne.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mr J and Mulsanne responded and asked for clarification on the redress I intended to 
be repaid.
Mr Js representative confirmed Mr J received the payment of £266.92 on 1 October 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the request for clarification
The amounts I require Mulsanne to pay Mr J are as follows
£354.11 plus VAT       For the excess protection (£424.93)
£20.84                         For the Oneway A charge
£31.96                         For the rfl charge
£477.73 Total
Plus any interest due.
Opportunity was given to both Mr J and Mulsanne to make any further comments after 
clarification was given. 
As neither Mr J or Mulsanne brought any futher comments, I maintain my provisional 
decision and I uphold Mr Js complaint.
I require Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to settle the charges for excess protection, 
Oneway A charge and rfl charge as detailed on the car hire invoice. It must also add 8% 
simple interest on this amount from the date the car hire invoice was paid by Mr J, to the 
date he receives the due payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr J £477.73. It must also add 8% 
simple interest on this amount from the date the car hire invoice was paid by Mr J, to the 
date he receives the due payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman