DRN-3018950
The complaint
Miss M complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money she lost following an alleged 
scam involving an investment.
What happened
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the background to be as follows.
At some time around October 2017, Miss M was approached by an individual offering her 
the opportunity to invest money to help fund a business. Miss M has told us that the 
individual was well known and respected in her community and she understood him to be a 
wealthy businessman, who already owned a company. 
On the understanding that shed become a partner in the business and believing this to be a 
good investment opportunity, Miss M agreed to invest £20,000  which was made up of a 
faster payment of £10,000, on 27 October 2017, and a cash withdrawal of £5,000, on 31 
October 2017, from Miss Ms Santander account, with the remainder of the funds being paid 
from an account Miss M holds with a different bank. The transactions Miss M made through 
her Santander account, were made in branch.
Miss M has said that when she paid the money she told the individual she needed a 
guarantee. So, in order to reassure her that this was genuine the individual gave her copies 
of his passport and documents for his vehicle, and an undated cheque for £10,000. Miss M 
has said that she was also shown a contract regarding the investment, but the individual told 
her that they couldnt complete the contract until his other business partner, who was out of 
the country, returned to the UK.
Miss M has told us that she received five instalment payments, over three years, totalling 
£1,300 as profit for the investment. Three of these were paid in cash (£700), with a further 
£600 by way of two cheques. Miss M became suspicious about the lack of return, against 
what she was expecting, and has said she was being given confusing information about 
where the individuals offices were and what was happening with the money.
Due to this, Miss M has said that she asked for her money back. Shes told us she asked on 
a number of occasions and at one stage received an agreement from the individual for £300 
to be returned to her each month for six months, following which at the end of the six months 
a further half of the money would be returned to her.  Miss M has said that she received two 
instalments for £300 (which form part of the £1,300 mentioned above)  but didnt receive 
any further instalments. In December 2019, Miss M also attempted to pay in the cheque for 
£10,000 that she had been given some years before as a guarantee  but the cheque was 
returned unpaid due to insufficient funds being held in the account.
Miss M has said the individual told her the investment had gone bust and there was no 
money left to pay her back. But Miss M doesnt think this is true and doesnt believe there 
was a company or an investment. Shes said the individual later told her that he had sent 
money to his family, who lived abroad and there was no money for the cheque to be cashed, 
Miss M believes the individual used the funds to purchase a house for his sister abroad.
Following Miss M attempting to cash the cheque, shes told us the individual became angry 
and refused to return her money, despite her making multiple attempts to contact him.  Miss 
M has told us that she was scared to leave the house and the whole matter has impacted 
her health and well-being.
Miss M complained to Santander. Santander issued its final response on 10 February 2021, 
not upholding Miss Ms complaint. It said that while it was sorry to hear of Miss Ms 
experience it was declining her claim as it considered this to be a civil dispute between her 
and the individual she was investing with. It suggested that a small claims court claim may 
be more appropriate for this complaint.
Miss M then brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint, as she didnt think there was 
enough evidence to support that there was an intent to deceive Miss M into departing with 
her money. She said that Miss M had received some money back, the individual she was 
dealing with had been registered with Companies House and there were no concerning 
reports from the bank that received the money, regarding how the individuals account was 
being operated. Overall, she didnt think Santander had a responsibility to refund the money 
she lost.
Miss M didnt agree with the investigators opinion, in summary she didnt agree that this 
wasnt a scam. Our investigator responded to Miss M explaining that even if she did consider 
this was a scam, she didnt think it would have made a difference. This was because she 
thought that, had the bank of intervened at the time the payment was made and asked 
questions about the payment, Miss M would have been able to give plausible answers about 
the payment, which she didnt think would have caused Santander to have concerns that 
Miss M may have been at risk of financial harm.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Having thought very carefully about Santanders actions, Im not intending to uphold Miss 
Ms complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can 
fairly say Santander should reimburse her. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss M, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that her money should be returned to her. Its understandable having lost such a significant sum why Miss M feels she has been the victim of a scam. But not all cases where 
individuals have lost significant sums are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam. I have taken 
account of the Fraud Act 2006, which defines fraud as, amongst other things, dishonestly 
making a false representation, whether express or implied, in order to make oneself a gain 
or cause another loss; and a representation is false if its untrue or misleading and the 
representor knows that it is or might be untrue or misleading.
Miss M has explained that the individual she made the payments to was well known to her 
and within her community and had good reviews. Im also mindful the individual had been 
registered on Companies House as the director of a different company, albeit I can see the 
company was dormant and the individual had ceased to be a director of the company, 
shortly before Miss M made the payments. Alongside this Miss M did receive some funds 
back in return and at one stage an agreement was reached for other payments to be made 
to Miss M, with Miss M seemingly being in regular contact with the individual for a not 
inconsiderable amount of time after making the payments. As well as this, the bank to where 
the payments were made, didnt express any concerns about how the recipients account 
was being operated.
Considering all of this, and based on what I currently know, Ive not seen anything that I can 
safely say meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. Rather, this appears 
to be a case of a bad investment and potentially questionable business methods/trading 
practices.
I dont doubt that the agreements Miss M entered into with the individual did not go as 
planned and she has not received what she was expecting. And I can understand entirely 
why she feels so strongly about what has happened. But I cant safely say with any certainty, 
with what I know, that the individual had an intent to defraud her.
Having concluded that this was likely a case of a bad investment rather than a scam, there is 
nothing further for me to consider, as a bank has no obligation to protect its customers from 
bad bargains or give them investment advice. There are occasions when we do think banks 
should query payments  because of suspicious activity that appears unusual or 
uncharacteristic for the account or customer. If such potential fraud alerts are triggered, it is 
fair and reasonable for a banker to pause and ask questions of the payer about the 
transaction  which might unravel a scam and stop it before any loss occurs.
A bank does not have to intervene with authorised payments, and cannot be held liable for 
alleged losses, when there is in fact no fraud or scam, or if the payer has regrets or second 
thoughts after the event. The starting position is that the bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer instructs it to make without undue delay.
But even if I considered this was a scam, which for the avoidance of doubt and for the 
reasons explained I cant safely say it is, I would also need to be persuaded that the banks 
intervention would have made a difference and prevented the payments from being made. I 
have to base my findings on the balance of probability  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened, taking into account what I know.
Here, even if Santander had asked Miss M further questions, that I could reasonably have 
expected it to ask about the purpose of the payments she was making, I think its more likely 
than not that she would have still gone ahead and made the payments. I say that as the 
individual with who she was dealing was well known to her and respected in her community, 
she had been given assurances about the investment, including being given a cheque for 
£10,000 by way of a guarantee, and she had seen an intended contract. I think Miss M 
would have been able to answer any questions confidently and I think its more likely than not the answers shes likely to have given wouldnt have given Santander any cause for 
concern that she may be at risk of financial harm.
Ive also thought about what Santander did when Miss M reported to it that she believed she 
had been the victim of a scam. From what I have seen, Santander contacted the receiving 
bank when it learned of what had happened, but no funds remained to be recovered.
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Miss M and I dont underestimate the 
impact this matter has had on her. But overall, for the reasons Ive explained I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask Santander to refund the money Miss M has lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint 
against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman