DRN-2765661
The complaint
Miss S complains about the service provided by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
under the Breakdown section of her car insurance policy.
References to RSA include acts or omissions of its agent that was providing the breakdown 
service.
 
What happened
Shortly before midnight one evening Miss S requested breakdown assistance under 
her policy.
While driving in heavy rain the wipers became inoperable and so it wasnt safe to 
continue driving.
Under an hour later she received contact saying assistance would arrive in around an 
hour.
But as Miss S wanted vehicle recovery, she contacted a different department and 
was told the assistance would still arrive.
Ultimately, assistance didnt arrive, and Miss S drove onwards once rain had ceased.
Miss S complained about the service shed received, and RSA offered £100 for 
failing to meet expectations.
Our investigator thought RSAs offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S policy does not give a timeline as to when assistance will arrive. Thats 
understandable as dependent on surrounding circumstances requests for assistance 
may be voluminous. And this will stretch its resource such that waiting periods may 
be longer.
Its apparent that RSA didnt manage Miss S expectations well and offered £100 
compensation.
Notification from Miss S came shortly before midnight and she made several calls to 
establish when assistance would arrive.
RSA knew her circumstances were vulnerable given the time of night, that she was 
unaccompanied and of her location. 
Im satisfied RSA attempted to deal with the request taking those into account, 
indeed she was given an estimated arrival time.
But this didnt materialise and around 1:30am Miss S call records end (appears her 
last attempt to find out what was happening). 
Miss S made her way home without assistance and so I appreciate she was very 
unhappy.
The central issue is whether the £100 compensation is fair, and Im satisfied it is. 
The distress and inconvenience experienced were over a very short period, a matter 
of a few hours.
I accept the level of concern for that period was relatively high but given the very 
short period Im satisfied £100 is fair.
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Plc has made an offer to pay £100. I conclude that such an offer is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Plc should 
pay Miss S £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman