DRN-2310454
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that after Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) repaired his stop tap, it leaked 
again and damaged his new kitchen flooring.
What happened
Mr B had home insurance with IPA, which included a home emergency policy. He told IPA 
his stop tap was leaking and it completed a repair. Six months later, Mr B noticed a leak 
again. He employed a plumber who repaired the stop tap but told him hed need to fit a new 
one. Mr B told IPA but it said he shouldve arranged a permanent repair after the first leak.
Mr B complained to IPA. He said that IPA hadnt told him it was only a temporary repair, so 
he didnt know he needed to arrange a permanent repair. Because of that, there was a 
second leak and it ruined part of his new kitchen flooring. Mr B had to make a claim under 
his home insurance policy for the damaged floor.
IPA looked into his complaint and agreed that it hadnt told Mr B the first repair was 
temporary. It sent him a cheque for £100 by way of apology. Mr B didnt think that was 
enough to acknowledge the distress he and his family had experienced when their new 
kitchen flooring was spoiled.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. After looking at the job report for the repair IPA 
carried out, he identified that it was a permanent repair, so he didnt think IPA was 
responsible for the second leak. But, because IPA had incorrectly told Mr B that it was only a 
temporary repair, our investigator thought that the £100 compensation previously offered 
was still warranted.
Mr B didnt agree. He said IPA admitted it didnt tell him the repair was temporary, so he 
couldnt understand why our investigator had based his view on a permanent repair. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that the stop tap leaked on two occasions six months apart. IPA repaired 
the first leak, and this is where the matter gets confusing. So, Ill look at the issue based on a 
temporary repair and then based on a permanent repair to decide whats most likely to have 
happened and whats fair.
Temporary Repair
IPA handled Mr Bs second report of a leak as if it had completed a temporary repair. 
Because he hadnt arranged for a permanent repair, IPA wouldnt cover his claim. Mr B had 
already arranged the second repair himself, but he complained that IPA hadnt told him the 
first repair was temporary. IPA agreed it hadnt told him and offered £100 by way of apology. 
If the repair was temporary, and IPA hadnt told Mr B that, then I think the subsequent loss 
he experienced  the damage to his floor  wouldve been a direct consequence of IPAs 
failure to fully inform him. While it offered £100 by way of apology, that wouldnt have 
covered his loss. Mr B claimed under his home insurance for the damage and paid the 
excess, which he confirms was £450. So, in this scenario, I wouldve expected IPA to pay 
£450 to cover the loss Mr B experienced which its mistake caused.
Permanent Repair
Our investigator thought the description of the repair matched that of a permanent repair. 
IPA has since agreed that it was.
If the repair was permanent, when Mr B reported the second leak, I wouldve expected IPA 
to attend to it under his policy. It didnt because Mr B had already paid a private plumber to 
repair the stop tap before reporting the leak to IPA. So, in this scenario, IPA didnt cause any 
direct loss for Mr B because he didnt give it the opportunity to complete the repair. 
As we can see here, its important to decide whether the repair IPA did was intended to be 
permanent or temporary. Ive looked at the description of the first repair to decide which is 
the most likely scenario. IPA removed the stop tap nut, placed tape around the thread, and 
replaced the nut over the tape, thereby creating a seal in the stop tap. Im not a plumbing 
expert, nor am I expected to be, but a quick look at various plumbing websites suggests to 
me that this is generally accepted as a lasting repair for a stop tap. 
The plumber Mr B employed reported that the second leak originated from the stop tap 
packing gland, which is the same part that IPA repaired. The plumber recommended a new 
stop tap because it was evident that an earlier leak had already been repaired. Ive thought 
carefully about whether that means IPA shouldve known that the repair would fail but I dont 
think it does. The plumber doesnt say the first repair was unsuitable. It seems that the 
conclusion drawn was that a repair had already been tried so there was no point doing the 
same repair and waiting for the stop tap to leak again. The plumber recommended a new 
part. 
Between IPAs repair and the plumbers repair, Mr B had a new kitchen fitted and the stop 
tap was behind the cupboards. I think its reasonable to assume that the water wouldve 
been turned off at some point during fitting so I cant rule out the possibility that the stop tap 
was used during that time or that IPAs repair had been affected in some way. Simply, I dont 
think its fair to say IPAs repair wasnt permanent.
Mr B provided details of all losses he incurred as a result of the second leak, such as time off 
work, his policy excess, increased premium and increased policy excess at renewal. 
However, I dont think IPA is responsible for those losses. Ive said the first repair was 
permanent. If it hadnt been, I doubt it wouldve been effective for as long as six months. Mr 
B replaced his whole kitchen during that time so if there was an ongoing leak from a 
temporary repair, I think it wouldve been noticed. I know Mr B thinks the repair shouldve 
lasted longer than six months if it was permanent, but I dont agree. Things do wear out and I 
dont think its fair to hold IPA responsible for not anticipating a second leak or for the 
damage the second leak caused. Mr B was able to claim under his home insurance, and as 
IPA wasnt responsible for the leak, I see no reason to ask it to pay for the associated losses 
Mr B incurred.Overall, I think its more likely that IPA completed a permanent repair to Mr Bs stop tap on 
the first occasion, and I think its offer of £100 is fair for the distress and inconvenience Mr B 
experienced because of the uncertainty around the repair. I understand that IPA issued a 
cheque for £100 which Mr B didnt bank. If the cheque is no longer valid, Mr B may wish to 
let IPA know so that it can reissue the payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman