DRN-3857892
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Erudio Student Loans Limited are pursuing him for arrears and have 
threatened to terminate his agreement.
What happened
Mr J had a deferred student loan that was administered by Erudio. His deferment came to an 
end in May 2018, and Erudio started collecting payments in June 2018. However, due to a 
change in his personal circumstances (which included a change of address), in October 
2018 Mr J asked Erudio to cancel his direct debit, which they did. Erudio also told Mr J that, 
if he wanted to defer his loan, hed need to make a formal application to do so.
Erudio started sending Mr J Notices of Sums in Arrears (NOSIAs), although they were 
initially sent to his previous address. Upon receipt of these, Mr J started his application for a 
deferment. He also contacted Erudio about whatd happened. Erudio treated this as a 
complaint, and acknowledged they hadnt changed Mr Js address on their systems in 
October 2018, when he advised them hed moved. And they paid Mr J £50 compensation.
But Erudio also explained that, as Mr Js student loan hadnt been deferred, he was 
responsible for making the payments, and was in arrears. So, they didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong by contacting him about this. They also explained that, if his deferment was 
accepted, then three months arrears would be removed but Mr J would still need to arrange 
to pay anything above this.
Mr J believed that Erudio had accepted the NOSIAs had been sent in error and, because of 
his age, the loan would be written off. As such, he didnt complete or send his application for 
a deferment. However, in May 2019, Erudio sent Mr J a default notice. At which point he 
submitted his deferment application and made a payment towards the arrears. And he 
contacted Erudio about the situation, explaining how hed felt pressured into making a 
payment towards the loan. Erudio also treated this as a complaint, and they issued Mr J a 
formal response. 
Mr J contacted Erudio in June 2020, to complain about how hed been treated. And he asked 
Erudio to treat this as his first and only complaint  he didnt accept that hed complained to 
Erudio in either February or May 2019. However, Erudio said that the Financial Conduct 
Authority defines a complaint as an expression of dissatisfaction. So, they thought they were 
right to deal with the matters Mr J had previously raised as complaints.
Because of this, Erudio only considered the new points Mr J had raised. And they wouldnt 
reconsider the matters theyd already dealt with. However, they did partially uphold Mr Js 
new complaint, and offered him £25 compensation.
Mr J wasnt happy with Erudios response and he brought this matter to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Mr Js complaint was initially dealt with by an investigator who thought we could consider all 
of his complaints. However, the complaint was reallocated to a second investigator after the 
first investigator was unexpectedly away from the office for an extended period of time. The 
second investigator didnt think we could consider the complaints Mr J raised in 2019, as 
these were raised with us outside of the timescales for doing so.
Mr J wasnt happy with this and provided extensive comments as to why he considered that 
the issues he raised with Erudio in 2019 shouldnt have been considered as complaints by 
Erudio at the time. On 13 December 2021 I issued a decision explaining why we werent 
able to consider the issues Mr J had raised in 2019; as theyd been brought to us out of time, 
because Erudio didnt consent to us considering these matters out of time, and because I 
didnt think there were any exceptional circumstances why Mr J hadnt been able to bring his 
complaints to us earlier. As such, I explained to Mr J that we are only able to consider the 
new complaints he raised in June 2020.
For clarity, these new complaints are:
that Erudio failed to take a payment in May 2018 after the deferment had ended;
that the email Erudio sent on 29 October 2018 was misleading and led Mr J to 
believe there was no timescale in which he needed to apply for a deferment; and
that Mr J found the Remedy of Account letter hed received confusing
Regarding these complaints, the second investigator said that Erudio hadnt been advised 
that Mr Js deferment had ended until 19 May 2018 and, as Mr Js payments fell due on the 
15th of each month, she thought Erudio had acted reasonably by starting taking payments on 
15 June 2018. She also said that the email Erudio sent clearly stated that payments would 
continue to accrue as arrears, until a deferment was agreed, and that this may result in the 
account being terminated.
The second investigator also said that Erudio provided an explanation of the Remedy of 
Account in their complaint response letter, which shouldve clarified what was necessary. 
However, she confirmed that Mr J shouldve been sent a statutory NOSIA in September 
2018, but instead they only sent a letter confirming the amount of arrears and asked Mr J to 
contact them. Given this, she thought that the removal of the interest that occurred due to 
the non-compliance with the NOSIA was reasonable in the circumstances. And she didnt 
think that Erudio needed to do anything more.
Mr J also provided extensive comments as to why he didnt agree with the second 
investigators conclusions. And he asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
May 2018 payment
In his comments on the investigators view, Mr J has confirmed that he shouldve started 
repaying his student loan in 2003, but this was deferred as he earned less than the threshold 
for making payments until 2018. He also believed that his outstanding student loan would be 
written off in 2019, under the terms of the original agreement hed signed.Mr J didnt apply for a deferral for 2018, as his income was more than the threshold for 
making payments. And, given this, his first payment fell due on 15 May 2018. However, 
Erudio werent advised until 19 May 2018 that Mr Js loan wasnt being deferred. Which was 
too late for them to collect the payment due on 15 May 2018. So, they started to collect 
payments by direct debit on 15 June 2018.
Mr J has said that he wasnt aware of the missed payment, and therefore that his account 
was in arrears by one payment, until he received a Notice of Default in May 2019.
However, Ive seen that Erudio wrote to Mr J on 5 September 2018, advising him of the 
annual reschedule on his account. At the top of this letter it clearly states Arrears: £145.03. 
In addition, they sent him an email dated 29 October 2018 (see below for the full text of this 
email) which also confirmed Account Arrears: £145.03. While I cant say for certain if Mr J 
ever received the 5 September 2018 letter (although I have no reason to suspect he didnt 
as he didnt advise Erudio that hed moved address until 22 October 2018), as hes 
complained about the 29 October 2018 email, I am satisfied that he received this.
Whats more, Mr J made the payments from June to October 2018. So, when he received 
the letter of 5 September 2018 / email of 29 October 2018 stating he was in arrears, this 
wouldnt have made sense to him, as he wouldve believed hed made all the required 
payments to that point.
I think that Erudio shouldve contacted Mr J in May 2018, when the deferment ended, to let 
him know that he would need to manually make the May 2018 payment. And I cant see that 
they did. However, given the above, Im satisfied that Mr J was aware that hed missed a 
payment by no later than October 2018, and I wouldve expected him to query this with 
Erudio if he was unaware what this related to. But he didnt, which implies that he was aware 
of what the arrears related to.
So, while Erudio couldve done better in this instance, I wont be asking them to provide any 
additional compensation to Mr J for this.
Ive also noted that, in their complaint response letter of June 2020 to Mr J, Erudio confirmed 
that because Mr Js account was in arrears, it wasnt eligible to be written-off in 2019 as hed 
expected. And the arrears would need to be paid before a write-off could occur. However, 
they also confirmed that, if his account were to be defaulted, then any rights to a write-off 
would be lost.
Given this, Im therefore satisfied that Erudio acted reasonably by not writing off Mr Js loan 
in February 2019.
email of 29 October 2018
For clarity in this matter, I think it would be beneficial if I quote this email in full:
Dear [Mr J]
Reference Number: [supplied]
Account Balance: £10,242.78
Account Arrears: £145.03
Thank you for your recent correspondence in regards to your [Erudio] account.We can now confirm that we have cancelled your Direct Debit on the account. Please 
find attached to this email a deferment application form, once completed, please 
send it directly to [details provided] along with all relevant supporting evidence.
Please be advised that if you do not defer, any missed payments will accrue on your 
account as arrears.
If you require assistance, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Kind Regards,
Mr J believes this email is ambiguous as it suggests he is ok as long as he defers at some 
point; that the email clearly says unless and not until; and that Erudio had an obligation to be 
totally clear. And, as they werent, then he should be given the benefit of the doubt.
However, I disagree with Mr Js assessment of this email. And, as there are no contradictory 
statements, I dont consider this email to be ambiguous.
While the email couldve had more detail, I think its clear in what it says and implies:
1. The email says that Mr Js account is in arrears.
2. The email says that Mr Js direct debit has been cancelled. This implies that no 
further payments would be automatically collected, and I dont think that any 
reasonable person would think they would be.
3. The email says that Mr J has asked about a deferment and the application form for 
this was attached. I accept Mr Js point that no timescale was provided for him to 
make this application, but I dont think that this was necessary. And the remainder of 
the email is clear in what would happen if a deferment isnt put in place.
4. The email says that if the account isnt deferred, then any missed payments would 
accrue as arrears. This implies that the sooner a deferment is put in place, the less of 
an impact it would have on the amount of arrears. And, even if this implication wasnt 
clear enough, Im satisfied that this doesnt imply that theres an unlimited timeframe 
in which to apply for a deferment, and therell be no implications from delaying 
making such an application.
Given this, Im satisfied that Erudio acted reasonably by both sending this email, and by 
treating any missed payments before a deferral was put into place as arrears. 
Mr J has also raised the point that Erudio couldve contacted him between October and 
December 2018, to chase up his application for a deferral, which wouldve prevented 
unnecessary arrears. But I dont think that was Erudios responsibility, as it was Mr J who 
wanted to make a deferment, not Erudio who were asking him to do this. And Mr J was 
aware what would happen if he didnt do this  payments would continue to fall due and, if 
they werent paid, they would class as arrears. As such, I wont be asking Erudio to take any 
further action in this regard.
confusing Remedy of Account letter
On 20 May 2019, Erudio wrote to Mr J in a letter entitled Remedy of Account. In this letter 
they confirmed that, due to a system error, they hadnt always complied with statutory 
requirements (sending the NOSIAs in September 2018) and that these would need to be 
reissued. They also explained that, as a result, they were refunding £226.41 interest charges 
that had resulted from this non-compliance.Erudio went on to apologise for their error and provided contact details (phone number and 
email) if Mr J had any questions about the letter.
I appreciate that Mr J wouldnt have been expecting this letter, and the fact that Erudio had 
made an error mayve come as a shock to him. However, Im satisfied they acted correctly 
by re-issuing the NOSIAs, and refunding any interest and charges that occurred as a result 
of their error. Whats more, they provided contact details if Mr J wanted to discuss the letter.
Ive also noted that, in his extensive comments on the investigators view, Mr J hasnt 
specifically objected to the conclusion she arrived at about this specific point. As such, I 
wont be asking Erudio to do anything more.
NOSIAs
In his comments on the investigators view, Mr J has referred to not receiving NOSIAs in 
December 2018 and January 2019, which had been sent to the incorrect address. And he 
says this was a new issue raised in his complaint on 2 June 2020. However, after reviewing 
the evidence, its clear Mr J raised the issue of correspondence being sent to an incorrect 
address in his complaint email of 13 February 2019. And, for the reasons already given in 
my previous decision, this is not something were able to look into.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint about Erudio Student Loans 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman