DRN-3692645
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
As I understand it, Mr H initially came across a cryptocurrency trader I will refer to as C 
around September 2020. He made a number of payments - initially from his other bank 
account (which was subject of a different complaint)  into a cryptocurrency wallet and from 
there onto C for what he thought was further trading. From the evidence he has shared  
during the same time - it seems he then came across another cryptocurrency trader - I will 
refer to as B. When Mr H first logged the scam claim with Monzo, he explained he was cold 
called sometime in November. The messages with B began on 17 November 2020. Mr H 
says he checked the validity of B through social media, word of mouth and internet 
searches. They provided him with a link to a website  which is no longer available  but at 
the time Mr H registered his complaint  Monzo noted that it looked unprofessional.
Between 9 November 2020 and 20 January 2021 Mr H made a number of payments to a 
cryptocurrency wallet with a genuine provider - I will refer to as A. From there he transferred 
funds to the scammers wallet. Mr H asked for his investment to be returned and when no 
money was forthcoming  he realised he had been scammed.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He considered that Monzo didnt go far enough and 
missed an opportunity to discuss the payments with Mr H from the second transaction on 16 
November 2020 onwards.
Monzo didnt agree. It said the loss had occurred from the cryptocurrency provider A and not 
from Mr Hs Monzo account. It explained a trading association has made it clear that liability 
for these types of scams should lie with the cryptocurrency firms.
I issued my provisional decision on 2 December 2022, explaining why I was thinking of 
coming to an outcome that differed in some respects to the one our investigator reached.
Monzo did not accept the provisional decision. It reiterated its stance that it shouldnt be held 
liable for the loss and considers the complaint should be directed at the platform where the 
funds were lost.
Mr H also responded. He said he was socially manipulated and engineered and coerced to 
engage in these fraudulent crimes. He said that Monzo should have had enough knowledge 
of this type of scam at the time. Mr H also said given his vulnerability and the fact hed never 
traded before Monzo should not rely of his own inconsequential reasonable due diligence  
especially where subsequent payments were much larger.
Mr H also mentioned that Monzo failed to uphold the Banking Protocol  which enables staff 
to alert the police of suspected fraud. Mr H doesnt think he was to blame for what happened 
but will accept a 20% deduction as his responsibility is slim compared to that of a large UK 
financial institution.
I have summarised the key transactions below:
Date In (£) Out (£) To/from Originating account
24/10/2020 2A
09/11/2020  700 A  
16/11/2020  5,000 A business account
16/11/2020 6,900  business account  
20/11/2020  5,000 A business account
20/11/2020 9,800  business account  
29/11/2020  2,000 A business account
29/11/2020  1,000 A business account
09/12/2020  3,700 Mr H other account  
17/12/2020  500 A  
17/12/2020 500  A  
17/12/2020  500 A  
17/12/2020 500  A  
17/12/2020 1,000  business account  
15/01/2021  500 A business account
18/01/2021  500 A business account
18/01/2021 1,000  Mr H other account  
18/01/2021  500 A Mr H other account
20/01/2021  900 A500 Mr H other account 400 Monzo 
current
20/01/2021  2,000 A Mr H other account
20/01/2021 2,000  Mr H other account  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought carefully about both parties responses to my provisional decision. 
It is not in dispute that Mr H has fallen victim to a cruel scam. That is not what I am 
considering here. As I said in my provisional decision, Im only considering whether the 
bank, which had no involvement in the scam itself, should be held responsible for what 
happened. 
I also agree Monzo ought to have had enough knowledge of this sort of scam at the time. 
But I also need to consider whether Mr Hs could have done something to mitigate his losses 
or should share some responsibility for his loss. I feel its appropriate Mr H to share 
responsibility in this case because I feel some of Mr Hs actions or inactions (outlined in my 
provisional decision) have contributed towards his losses. And whilst I acknowledge Mr H 
feels his responsibility is slim; I feel it is fair to split the responsibility 50/50 between the 
parties in his case.
The Banking Protocol  which Mr H has mentioned  does not apply here as this is only 
relevant to branch-based transactions.
Monzo has reiterated its previous arguments which I have already considered (and 
explained why I dont agree) when reaching my provisional decision.So, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. I have 
concluded that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, would be to uphold 
this complaint in part. For completeness, I have set this out below.
I understand this has been an extremely difficult time for Mr H and his family and I am sorry 
to hear of the impact the scam has had on him mentally - to the extent he has now been 
hospitalised. There is no doubt Mr H has fallen victim to a cruel scam and lost considerable 
money.
When I consider cases like this  I am looking at whether the bank  who was not party to 
the scam itself  should have done more. It doesnt automatically follow that Monzo is liable 
for a loss or all of the losses, just because a customer is a victim of fraud.
I appreciate some time has elapsed since the events in question but in bringing the 
complaint  both to Monzo and this service  Mr H has largely referred to being scammed by 
C. But he also supplied messages with what looks to be another organisation  B. I think B 
and C were two separate cryptocurrency traders. I say this as - in the long chain of 
messages with B - Mr H refers to C and some of his concerns which eventually led to him 
discovering he was scammed by C. I say all of this because I feel some of the testimony is 
blurred between the two scams. Ultimately, I think it is likely that there was some crossover 
between the two scams and the payments Mr H made from his Monzo account  with earlier 
payments going to C and later ones to B.
Should Monzo have prevented the payments from being made?
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into 
what is fair and reasonable in this case. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and 
help to prevent payments, that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
It is not in dispute that Mr H authorised the scam payments. It is also not in dispute that Mr H 
was duped by the scammers into instructing the bank to transfer money to a cryptocurrency 
account and on from there into the scammers account. The scammers deceived him over a 
messaging platform into thinking he was making a legitimate cryptocurrency investment for 
further trading. So, although Mr H did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr H is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
But, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Monzo 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud.
I appreciate the loss did not occur directly from Mr Hs Monzo account. And I have noted the 
guidance issued by a trade association to banks such as Monzo. But I dont agree that 
Monzo is not liable simply because the money was transferred to a cryptocurrency account 
in Mr Hs name and the fraud then happened from there. As Ive mentioned above, Monzo 
had a responsibility to be on the lookout for unusual activity and protect consumers from 
financial harm.
As a financial services professional, I think Monzo would have been aware at the time that 
fraudsters use genuine firms offering cryptocurrency as a way of defrauding customers and 
that these scams often involve money passing through more than one account. 
Cryptocurrency scams had been increasing in frequency and both the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and Action Fraud had published specific warnings about these scams in 
2018. In my view, by the time of these transactions, Monzo had had time to understand 
these warnings and be on the look at for this particular type of fraud.
I dont think the initial transfers would have caused Monzo concern  they were relatively 
small and not particularly unusual given the historical account activity. But I agree the £5,000 
payment on 16 November 2020 was unusual for the account and out of character for Mr H. 
And Monzo could see it was going to A  a genuine cryptocurrency. Even though it was 
seemingly going to a genuine provider and one Mr H has paid to before  for the reasons 
explained above - the £5,000 was a payment instruction that Monzo ought to have realised 
warranted additional checks before it simply processed it without question. I think in a 
situation like this Monzo should have spoken with Mr H to check everything was in order, to 
protect him from the risk of financial harm. I have therefore thought about what most likely 
would have happened if Monzo had spoken appropriately to Mr H about his instructions for 
the £5,000 payment on 16 November 2020 before it executed it.
If Monzo had asked who Mr H was paying his cryptocurrency to and/or how hed heard 
about the trading company, I think Mr H would have told them about C (and later B) and that 
hed heard about them through social media, and that he was dealing with C (and B) on a 
social media messaging platform. And if Monzo had given Mr H some warnings about 
cryptocurrency scams including telling him they often involve setting-up a genuine third-party 
account for payments to pass through and providing consumers with fake websites and 
platforms giving the appearance of investment returns, I think he likely would have been 
concerned.
With further questioning, I think Monzo would have been concerned about what was 
happening and it would have been put on notice that Mr H was falling victim to a scam. I 
think this would have caused sufficient doubt in Mr Hs mind not to proceed with the £5,000 
payment and those payments that followed. In other words, if Monzo had carried out further 
or better questioning in line with the banks duty of care, it seems probable that Mr H would 
have become credulous about the scam in time and stopped the £5,000 payment on 16 
November 2020 in its tracks. The fraud would have failed; and Mr H would not have lost the 
£5,000 payment or the payments that followed.
Could Mr H have done more to mitigate his losses?
Ive thought carefully about what Monzos obligations were, as set out above. But another 
key issue is whether Mr H acted reasonably taking into account all the circumstances of the 
scam. So, I have also considered whether Mr H should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence.From the outset I think there were a number of concerns with the situation Mr H was getting 
involved with. Had he carried out any basic checks or tried to verify what he was being told 
by scammers; Im satisfied he wouldve recognised he was the victim of a scam from the 
outset. So, I think he shares responsibility for his loss. I say this because:
The scammer told Mr H on 17 November 2020 if you have some bitcoins theres an 
100% guarantee that it can be doubled through mining. I think its unlikely any legitimate 
opportunity like this would be able to offer a guaranteed return and I think the offer was 
too good to be true and should have aroused suspicion. Various returns are quoted 
throughout the communications and on 21 November 2020 Mr H acknowledges the 
return sounds crazy.
Mr H is initially persuaded to transfer $300 to buy himself a slot on the premium plan only 
to be told those slots are full and that he needs to pay another $700 to upgrade to a 
bronze plan. From the correspondence Mr H has provided with the scammer, I think its 
clear over the following days that the scammer was applying significant and  
unprofessional pressure to Mr H to send more and more money, despite Mr H saying he 
didnt have any. I think he ought to have been concerned by this as I dont think its how 
a reasonable person would expect a legitimate trader to act.
Communications were largely through social media messaging platforms. Social media 
isnt a normal platform for legitimate investments. I think the method of communication 
ought to have caused concern.
I think these things ought reasonably to have raised significant concern about the legitimacy 
of the opportunity. That, in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on Mr Hs 
part. I appreciate Mr H did so some research on C and B and they appeared to have a 
legitimate website. But overall, I dont think this was enough to disregard some of the clearer 
warning signs here.
Overall, Im not satisfied that a reasonable person wouldve believed this was a genuine 
situation or wouldve proceeded without doing substantive investigation and checks to verify 
all the information they were given  which I think wouldve shown inconsistencies and 
issues in the information provided. On that basis, I think its reasonable for Mr H to share the 
responsibility with Monzo and reduce the refund on all of the payments by 50%. Therefore, 
Monzo should refund 50% of all the payments Mr H made from the payment of £5,000 on 
16 November 2020 onwards.
I dont say any of this to diminish the fact that Mr H has been the victim of a cruel scam. I 
sympathise with him for that and I know he will be hugely disappointed by this decision. 
Despite my sympathy for Mr H, and what he has been through and still going through, I must 
reach a reach a decision that is fair and reasonable based on all the evidence. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr H Monzo Bank Ltd must:
Refund 50% of transfers Mr H made to A (greyed out transactions on 
17 December 2020 do not need to be refunded as transfers back in were made to the 
same value at the same time).Pay interest on the above refund at the originating accounts rate (as indicated in the 
table above) from the date the payments debited the account, until the date of 
settlement. 1.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part and require Monzo Bank Ltd to put things 
right for Mr H as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
1 If Monzo is legally required to deduct tax from the interest should send Mr H a tax deduction 
certificate so he can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.