DRN-3933829
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the way that Society of Lloyds has dealt with his sickness claim 
on a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr B first contacted the underwriters to make a claim in July 2021. It was finally accepted in 
April 2022 and Mr B received an initial payment of £3,600 for 12 months worth of mortgage 
repayments for the period from September 2020 to September 2021. The following week it 
made a further payment of £600 because the cover included an extra £50 per month for 
mortgage related costs. It also added 8% interest to the £600 in acknowledgement of the 
slight delay in payment.  As Mr B is unable to return to work, he thinks that the policy should 
cover his remaining mortgage repayments until it is fully paid off.
In response to Mr Bs complaint, Lloyds accepted that the underwriters communication with 
Mr B could have been better. It therefore offered £100 compensation for any distress or 
inconvenience caused.
Our adjudicator thought that the underwriter had correctly paid a maximum of 12 months 
benefit, in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. He also thought that the offer of 
£100 compensation was reasonable.
In addition, our adjudicator thought that the policy should be cancelled and the premiums 
refunded from the end of the claim period in September 2021, plus 8% simple interest. The 
underwriter agreed that such a refund would be fairest thing to do in the circumstances, 
although Lloyds preference was for this particular issue to be dealt with as a new complaint.
Mr B disagrees with the adjudicators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy states that:
A monthly benefit is payable until either the end date of the policy or you return to work or 
12 monthly benefits are paid under any one disability claim  whichever occurs first.
Mr B hasnt explained why he believes the policy would cover him for the remainder of his 
mortgage term, rather than just for a maximum of 12 months. But he cant have been given 
that impression by the underwriter as it wouldnt have had any direct contact with him at the 
point that he was buying the PPI.
In deciding whether the underwriter has acted fairly and reasonably, I need to look at 
whether it has assessed the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Looking at the policy terms, Im satisfied that 12 months is the maximum payable for Mr Bs 
claim. There is no scenario in which the policy would pay out more than that. So, I consider 
that the underwriter has acted reasonably in ending the claim after 12 months.
Mr B says that a mistake was made because he was initially sent an unemployment claim 
form rather than a sickness claim form. When Mr B first made contact he spoke about 
compulsory redundancy as the primary reason for making a claim but mentioned medical 
reasons as a secondary issue. On that basis I think it is understandable that he was sent an 
unemployment claim form in the first instance. Whilst this may have inconvenienced Mr B 
slightly, I dont think it caused any great delay as later delays occurred further down the line 
whilst the underwriter awaited a response from Mr Bs GP. 
Mr B has objected to the underwriter saying that he had depression that started in 1987 
which he says is untrue. I understand Mr Bs explanation of the situation in 1987, that he was 
suffering from emotional distress due to a breakup, rather than depression. However, his 
medical records do mention depression stemming from 1987. The underwriter is entitled to 
rely on the medical evidence it receives. So, I dont find any fault on the part of the 
underwriter for taking this information at face value. Ultimately, this issue had no impact on 
Mr Bs claim as it was accepted on the basis of other medical conditions that he has.
Looking at the progress of Mr Bs complaint, on balance, I consider the offer of £100 
compensation to be reasonable and proportionate.
The underwriters first tier complaint response states that, as Mr B will be unable to work 
again, it will therefore cancel the policy. So, its clear that the underwriter understood that it 
was no longer on risk and there was no possibility of Mr B making a future successful claim. 
However, the cancellation wasnt actioned at that time and monthly premiums continued to 
be taken. I appreciate Lloyds cooperation in dealing with this issue now and confirming the 
underwriters agreement to cancel the policy and issue a refund.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I am satisfied that Mr B has correctly received the maximum 
amount payable under his claim. However, Society of Lloyds should now cancel the policy 
and refund the premiums Mr B has paid since the claim ended in September 2021. It should 
also add 8% simple interest to the refund amount. It should also pay the £100 compensation 
it offered to Mr B, unless it has already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman