DRN-2203386
The complaint
Mr H complains that IGO4 Limited forced him to cancel his motor insurance policy and then 
charged him a fee. He wants it to waive the outstanding balance. 
What happened
Mr H changed his car and he had 14 days to arrange to have a telematics box fitted to it. He 
was unable to contact IGO4 before he went on holiday. IGO4 emailed him to say the policy 
would cancel if he hadnt made an appointment with the fitters by 13 January 2020. A week 
before this deadline, Mr H contacted IGO4 to explain he was on holiday and to request an 
extension to the deadline. IGO4 said the underwriter wouldnt allow this. It said it would 
cancel the policy, and apply a cancellation marker, unless Mr H cancelled the policy, which 
he did.
Mr H thought this was unfair as hed contacted IGO4 before the deadline. IGO4 was late 
logging his complaint. It said Mr H owed £282.41 for the cancelled policy. It later deducted 
£50 for its poor complaint handling, and £120 for the change of vehicle telematics fee, 
leaving £112.41 outstanding.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the policy 
terms and conditions stated that Mr H should have the telematics box fitted within 14 days. 
She thought IGO4 and its agents had made reasonable attempts to contact Mr H to arrange 
this. When it threatened to cancel the policy, Mr H contacted it to arrange an appointment. 
But the fitters werent able to offer an appointment within the cancellation notice period. 
So the investigator thought IGO4 should have offered an extension to Mr H as this wasnt his 
fault. She thought it was unfair that Mr H had no option but to cancel his policy. She thought 
IGO4 should remove its £75 cancellation fee and pay Mr H £50 compensation for his trouble 
and upset. 
IGO4 replied that it had allowed Mr H 24 days to have the box fitted before cancellation. It 
said Mr H hadnt tried to arrange to have the box fitted for 18 days until it threatened 
cancellation. It said the insurer didnt approve the extension. It said it wasnt responsible for 
the cancellation fee. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
IGO4 said the decision to cancel the policy lay with the insurer and so Mr Hs complaint 
should be made against it. But I dont agree. The insurer has confirmed to us that the 
decision to cancel or grant an extension wasnt referred to it. So I think Mr Hs complaint was 
correctly made against IGO4. 
IGO4 also said that the cancellation fee was applied by the insurer and so this part of Mr Hs 
complaint should be directed to it. But I dont agree. This is because IGO4s terms and 
conditions state that in the event of cancellation, then the consumer would be charged £75 in 
addition to charges applied by the insurer for time on cover. And the insurer has confirmed 
that it doesnt charge any cancellation fee for this policy. So I think IGO4 is responsible for 
the £75 cancellation fee. 
So what Ive then considered is whether IGO4 fairly cancelled Mr Hs policy rather than 
allowing him an extension of four days to have his box fitted. 
IGO4s policy says that consumers have 14 days from the start of the policy to arrange to 
have the box fitted, or the policy may be cancelled. I think this is clearly stated. And I think 
IGO4 can reasonably rely on this cancel a policy if a consumer doesnt comply with it. But I 
dont think it would be fair to apply this term in Mr Hs particular circumstances. Ill now 
explain why I think this. 
I think IGO4 and its agents made reasonable attempts to contact Mr H to arrange the fitting 
before he went on holiday. Mr H made attempts to book this online but without success. 
IGO4 said Mr H intended to cancel his policy all along. It relied on an email he had sent it. 
But this was in response to an increase in premium due his driving style. So I dont think 
thats relevant to Mr Hs new policy.
IGO4 then gave Mr H seven days in which to have the box fitted or the policy would cancel. 
Mr H responded immediately and tried to arrange this. But IGO4s fitters didnt have any 
available slots. 
So I think IGO4 had given Mr H an extension and this superseded its policy limitation. And I 
think Mr H tried to make the booking and I think it wasnt his fault that IGO4 couldnt now 
honour its offer. 
I agree with the investigator that IGO4 should then have offered Mr H an extension until the 
next available slot, four days later. Instead, it gave Mr H the options of cancelling his policy 
or of having it cancelled. Mr H chose to cancel, but I think he had little choice in this, and I 
think he wanted to keep the policy. 
So I think it was unfair of IGO4 not to allow Mr H a further extension of four days to have the 
box fitted. And I think it should restore his position.
Putting things right
IGO4 has already offered Mr H £50 compensation for its poor complaints handling. Its also 
waived the £120 box installation fee. I think thats fair and reasonable as it didnt install the 
box. 
I think IGO4 should also waive its £75 cancellation fee as it wasnt Mr Hs intention to cancel 
his policy. And I think it should pay Mr H a further £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience of having to find alternative cover elsewhere.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require IGO4 
Limited to carry out the redress set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman