DRN-4077225
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as E has complained that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited has 
not paid enough to settle its business interruption insurance claims. 
Mr V, a director of E, has brought the complaint on Es behalf through a representative. For 
ease of reading, I will refer to all actions and comments of Mr V and the representative as 
being those of E. 
What happened
E runs two language schools for which it held business interruption insurance with Hiscox. E 
claimed on its policy for losses it incurred during three different periods. These periods 
commenced March 2020 (claim one), November 2020 (claim two) and January 2021 (claim 
three). 
Following the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authority Business 
Interruption Insurance test case Hiscox paid Es claim for losses incurred for claims one 
and three under the public authority clause which provided cover for:
         your inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a     
public authority during the period of insurance following 
b. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an  
outbreak of which must be notified to the local authority  
Hiscox said that claim two was not covered. Hiscox said that it considered E to be an 
educational establishment and as such it had not experienced an inability to use its 
premises in November 2020. Although E has two premises, Hiscox said it considered 
there to be one claim limit under the policy per claim and not one claim limit per 
premises. This is because the schedule says that there is a £100,000 limit for each 
and every incident of loss and it thought the lockdown periods were one incident of 
loss.
E complained to Hiscox. It said that the policy should cover each location separately and 
therefore it was due an increased payment. It said paragraph 239 of Corbin and King Ltd v 
AXA Insurance UK Plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) (Corbin & King) supported its view 
because the AXA policy provides cover in respect of interruption and interference with the 
business where access to your Premises is restricted and its Hiscox policy states an 
incident occurring during the period of insurance within a one mile radius of the insured 
premises. E said that both wordings use the word premises and this is important because 
of paragraph 239 (ii) of the judgment which said: 
The premises were in different locations and could well be differently affected by 
a danger triggering cover. Mr Grader's nuclear incident in Central London would 
leave Cafe Wolseley at least untouched. Further, as he pointed out, closures 
from two suspicious vehicles (one near the Delaunay and one near the Wolseley) 
must be seen on any analysis as two separate incidents which would naturally 
give rise to two claims; and there is no logical distinction if it is the same car, 
equidistant from the two venues which closes both premises. The word 
premises points to each restaurant/cafe and that distinction illuminates how a 
separation of interests may well operate - and that in turn points to separate 
limits. That then harmonises with the fact of different named insureds and the 
separate interests which underpin a composite policy
Hiscox did not agree. It said the insured event which gave rise to the claim was one incident 
of loss (as referred to in the schedule) and therefore one limit applied, as set out in the policy 
schedule. 
Hiscox said it had reviewed Es claim following the judgment in Corbin & King but said that 
this did not change its position. 
Unhappy with Hiscoxs response, E brought its complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator looked into Es complaint but did not recommend it be upheld. He thought it 
was reasonable for Hiscox to say that E would not get paid the claim limit per location as he 
thought there had been one incident of loss. 
E did not agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It reiterated the points it had made 
in its complaint to Hiscox and provided an article written by solicitors which said:
The insured was successful on this point. The judge found that this was a 
composite policy and noted that the policy refers to cover in respect of 
interruption and interference with the business where access to your Premises is 
restricted. (emphasis added). She noted that the premises insured were in 
different locations and could well be affected differently by a danger triggering 
cover.
E said that its policy was almost identical to the policy considered in Corbin & King and so 
the outcome reached in that case should apply. 
Our Investigator asked Hiscox for further comments about why it did not think the outcome of 
Corbin & King meant that E was entitled to a claim per insured location
Hiscox said that in Corbin & King the judge considered that a limit would apply per premises 
for a number of different reasons:
The specific construction and language within the policy and schedule
The trigger clause required danger within a one mile radius and as the premises 
were in different locations they could be differently affected by a danger triggering 
cover.
No delineating or limiting language. 
Hiscox said the clause in its policy is very different as it is a hybrid clause and as such there 
is no one single event which triggers cover. Instead, there needs to be a number of 
concurrent events and when they occur the policy triggers, or an incident of loss occurs. 
Hiscox said that the Property definitions and Property  business interruption sections of 
the policy set out that the Amount Insured applies to each incident of loss. It said, for the 
public authority clause, under which claims one and three have been paid, also says that the 
limits apply to each and every incident of loss.Hiscox also said that the judgment in Stonegate Pub Company Ltd v MS Amlin Corporate 
Member Ltd and others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm) (Stonegate) supported its position as 
the court said that there could be a single covered event in numerous different locations. 
Hiscox added that there was nothing in its policy which indicated that a separate indemnity 
would apply to different locations. 
Our Investigator considered the further information provided by E and Hiscox but remained 
of the view that the policy did not provide for separate claims to be made for each location 
where it is caused by the same incident of loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
E has also complained about Hiscox declining a claim it made for losses incurred in 
November 2020. That has been dealt with separately. In this complaint I am only going to 
consider Hiscoxs actions in relation to the amount it paid to settle claim one and claim three. 
While Es complaints about this issue relate to two separate acts or omissions and ordinarily 
would be considered separately I am going to deal with them both in one decision, as I think 
it is better to do so.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Es business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Hiscox paid Es claims under the public authority clause which I have set out in the 
background section above. However, for completeness, I will also address why Es claim 
was not paid under the non-damage denial of access clause. 
Non-damage denial of access clause
This part of the policy covers business interruption losses caused by:
an incident occurring during the period of insurance within a one mile radius of
the insured premises which results in a denial of access or hindrance in access to
the insured premises, imposed by any civil or statutory authority or by order of the
government or any public authority, for more than 24 consecutive hours.
I dont intend to comment on whether access to Es premises was denied or hindered 
because I dont think that any restrictions that may have caused them were as a result of an 
incident within one mile of the insured premises. I will explain why.
I think the FCA test case is relevant. The High Court said (at paras 404-405) about the need
for an incident:
 this word should be given the same essential meaning as an event:
something which happens at a particular time, at a particular place, in a particular
way an incident is not synonymous with emergency or danger it is a
misuse of language both generally and on the correct construction of the NDDA
clause to describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident
occurring within a one mile radius of the insured premises.
It may amount to a state of affairs but it istoo geographically dispersed,
variegated, prolonged and non-specific to amount to an incident in any event, it
is a misnomer to describe the presence of someone in the radius with thedisease as an incident for the purposes of the clause.
This part of the judgment was not appealed to the Supreme Court and so is relevant case
law. Ive considered whether this position would be amended by the courts position in 
Corbin & King but I dont believe it would be. Thats because the judge said at paragraph 
156:
The word Incident also is capable of lending a very distinct colour to a wording
 as the telling argument recorded at [398] of the Divisional Court's judgment
makes clear. Its significance is underpinned by the Divisional Court's conclusion
at [404] that In our judgment, the FCAs entire case on the NDDA founders on
the requirement for an incident.
I see no reason to depart from the findings of the High Court and do not therefore consider
that there was an incident within one mile of the insured premises which prevented or 
hindered Es access to its premises. Therefore, there isnt cover under this part of Es policy. 
Public authority clause
This is the clause that did provide cover for claims one and two. Es policy schedule shows 
that the public authority clause has an amount insured of £100,000. The next column says 
that the limit applies to each and every incident of loss. In this case the incident of loss that 
is covered is the inability of E to use its premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority due to the occurrence of Covid-19. 
I have considered paragraph 239 (ii) which is set out in the background to my decision. In 
this paragraph, the court discussed whether there was one insured event, or an insured 
event per premises. And I believe that is the key question for me to consider in this decision, 
as the limit applies to each and every incident of loss. 
E has pointed to similarities between its circumstances and its policy and the circumstances 
and policy considered in Corbin & King. However, while both companies had different 
locations and could be impacted by separate events and both clauses refer to premises, 
the clause in the policy considered in Corbin & King provided cover where there was a 
danger within one mile of the insured premises. The clause in Es policy, which provided 
cover, does not have the same requirement in terms of the radius that the insured event 
originates from and I think can be differentiated on that basis. 
I note that E has referred to its policy providing cover for an incident occurring during the 
period of insurance within a one mile radius of the insured premises. However, this wording 
is contained within the clause for non-damage denial of access and I have set out in the 
section above why this does not provide cover for Es claim.  
At paragraph 228 of Corbin & King the court said:
There were effectively two strands to the argument on this point. The first was 
essentially a construction argument, based on the wording of the policy. The 
second was a legal argument derived from the fact that the policy was a 
composite policy.
As the article E provided says, the policy in Corbin & King was a composite policy. This is 
where a policy covers multiple insureds and is generally considered a series of contracts. 
However, in Es case, E is the only company being covered by the policy, so I think Es 
policy can also be differentiated from the policy in Corbin & King as E is the only insured. While in principle, I think that the two locations could have been impacted by separate 
incidents of loss, in this particular case I am more persuaded by Hiscox that there was one 
incident of loss. For there to be an incident of loss I think there must be a degree of unity in 
relation to cause, location, timing and the motives of the person responsible. The policy 
requires there to have been an inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions 
imposed as a result of the disease. In this case, I think that the lockdowns in March 2020 
and January 2021 were triggered by all of the cases of Covid-19 at those times and the 
restrictions which required E to close impacted both of the premises at the same time. I have 
also not seen anything within the policy or the schedule which suggests that there will be 
cover for each of the premises.
Taking all of this into account, I think it was reasonable for Hiscox to say that each claim was 
limited to £100,000 and that it was not required to pay up to this amount per location. 
I recognise that this isnt the outcome E was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I do not believe that I can fairly uphold this complaint. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman