DRN-3171988
The complaint
Ms B complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) charged her interest on her credit card when shed 
already made a payment toward the balance.
What happened
In October 2021 Ms B was charged interest on the remaining balance of her credit card.    
Ms B complained, as she felt that interest shouldnt have been charged as shed already 
made a payment. Ms B felt that this had never happened before and was linked to TSBs 
knowledge of her ethnicity and disability benefits.
TSB disagreed, it explained her payment had not covered the balance of her card, so 
interest was charged according to the terms of her account. It refuted that any of its actions 
were motivated by discrimination and racial bias. Ms B disagreed and was also unhappy that 
TSBs letter in response to her complaint had not been signed. She referred her complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman.
Our Investigator felt that TSB had charged interest in line with the terms of Ms Bs account. 
They did not feel TSB had done anything wrong or that there was any evidence it had 
treated Ms B unfairly. They did not think it was unreasonable for TSB to send their final 
response unsigned as its staff had been working at home during the pandemic.
Ms B disagreed, she explained that TSB had waived other interest charges for her, which 
she felt proved it had charged interest incorrectly in this instance. Our Investigators opinion 
didnt change, they explained TSBs other refunds were gestures of goodwill, and the 
interest in question had still been charged correctly. 
Ms B asked for an Ombudsman to consider the complaint. She still felt strongly that TSB had 
incorrectly charged interest on her account, and that it had done so due to racial bias and 
discriminatory reasons.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether TSB followed the account terms Ms B agreed to when opening her 
account. Ive also considered if there is any evidence that its decision to charge interest was 
a result of racial bias or discrimination.
The terms of Ms Bs credit card account state:
We will not charge interest on Purchases shown on your current statement if you 
pay the full balance shown on that statement by the payment date (provided you 
have also paid the full balance on the previous statement by the payment date). 
If you have not previously paid in full, well add interest from the date we 
originally added the Purchases to your account.
The statements sent to Ms B state:
Interest-free period: Maximum 56 days for purchases if you pay the full balance 
shown on your previous and current statement on time. No interest-free period 
on balance transfers or cash withdrawals
Interest charging information: For Purchases, Cash Withdrawals and Balance 
Transfers interest is charged from the date the item is debited to your account 
until the balance is paid in full.
Im satisfied the account terms and Ms Bs credit card statements were clear that 
interest would be charged on any balances not paid in full. Ms B made a payment 
during the relevant period  but this payment didnt equal the full balance. So, Im also 
satisfied that TSB correctly followed its terms when applying interest to the remaining 
amount.
Ms B feels that maintaining minimum payments should prevent interest being charged, 
but this is not how her account functions. Any remaining balance has interest charged, 
and this is typically how credit cards function. I dont think it would be fair to expect 
TSB to act any other way when its terms are clear on the matter.
Ms B believes she has been treated differently by TSB, and that its decision to charge 
interest is based on racial bias and discrimination. I want to reassure Ms B that Ive 
considered her comments carefully. Its not my role to decide if the Equality Act has 
been breached as thats for a court to decide. However, Ive looked at whether Ms B 
was treated unfairly or unreasonably. Based on the evidence available to me, I cant 
say thats whats happened here.
Ms B has not provided evidence of this discrimination other than her belief that this 
was the motive for interest being charged. But the interest was charged in line with the 
terms of her account  and any customer with the same account could expect to be 
charged in the same way. I cant conclude that TSB has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in its actions as I havent seen anything that suggests she was treated differently to 
how the bank might treat another customer in the same circumstances.
Ms B has provided evidence to show that other interest charges have been waived by 
TSB as a gesture of goodwill. But this doesnt show that the interest in question was 
charged incorrectly, or that in offering a gesture of goodwill in other circumstances 
TSB has acted incorrectly in this particular instance.
Ms B has also raised concerns that the letter she received from TSB was not signed  
but I dont think this was meant as a discourtesy or impacted the validity of its 
response. The letter was unsigned due to the limitations of TSBs staff having to work 
from home during the pandemic. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman