DRN-3534464
The complaint
Miss L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard 
(Barclaycard/Barclays) sent correspondence to her old address despite her telling them 
twice shed moved.
What happened
Miss L holds a credit card account with Barclaycard. 
Miss L called Barclaycard twice in November 2021 to let them know shed moved address. 
She also says she updated her personal details on Barclaycards smart device application 
(app). She says Barclaycard said theyd updated her details and all correspondence would 
be sent to her new address.
Miss L was later contacted by the new occupants of her old address. They said theyd 
received letters from Barclays addressed to her. These were dated and received after shed 
arranged for her address to be changed at Barclaycard.
Miss L complained to Barclays in December 2021. She said Barclays actions were a serious 
GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) breach which needed investigating. Shortly 
after complaining to Barclays, Miss L also referred her complaint to this service.
Barclays called Miss L to discuss her complaint. It was established Miss Ls address had 
been updated correctly by Barclaycard. But it hadnt be updated within the wider Barclays 
Group. They confirmed that no correspondence had been sent by Barclaycard to Miss Ls 
old address and offered to update the address over the telephone. But Miss L wasnt willing 
to complete the necessary security checks. So, they explained how she could update the 
address herself.
Barclays offered compensation of £50. Miss L asked for this to be increased to £100, but 
Barclays declined. Miss L then accepted Barclays offer of £50 and Barclays confirmed their 
resolution of Miss Ls complaint in a letter on 15 December 2021. But Miss L remained 
unhappy and wanted matters to be considered further by this service. She said shed been 
worried she may become a victim of fraud because of Barclays actions. She thought they 
should compensate her for the anxiety caused as a result of their negligence.
Having considered Miss Ls complaint, our investigator thought the resolution offered by 
Barclaycard was fair and reasonable, so didnt think they needed to do anything more. Miss 
L didnt agree with our investigators findings. She thought our investigators findings werent 
impartial and said she would be pursuing legal action. In the meantime, Miss L asked for her 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman to reconsider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard have confirmed that although the address on Miss Ls Barclaycard account had 
been correctly updated, the change hadnt been applied to her records across the wider 
Barclays Group. Theyve accepted that shouldve been done when Miss L first told them of 
the change.
Barclays apologised for their mistake and attempted to correct this during the call with Miss 
L. But Miss L wasnt willing to provide the required information to complete their security 
checks. As an alternative, it was agreed that correspondence from the wider Barclays group 
would be suspended until Miss L could arrange for her address to be changed. They also 
explained how she could do this.
In these circumstances, I think this was the right course of action as it would ensure that no 
further letters would be sent to Miss Ls old address. Barclays also agreed to pay 
compensation of £50 to reflect any distress and inconvenience their mistake may have 
caused. 
Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as reasonable by one party may not be 
considered so by another. Miss L did experience some inconvenience. But I think the 
amount offered feels fair in all the circumstances here. I appreciate that Miss L doesnt 
agree. But it isnt the role of this service to make awards in order to penalise Barclaycard for 
their mistakes. Any award is considered based upon the impact their mistake had upon Miss 
L. And I think their offer does that here.
Barclays did explain that marketing letters and materials may have been sent to Miss Ls old 
address. These are often prepared up to six weeks before theyre despatched. So, I think 
this might explain why some letters were received at her old address. Miss L has expressed 
concern that Barclaycards mistake couldve led to her becoming a victim of fraud. I 
understand why she might feel that way. Particularly given the profile that such cases 
currently receive. But Ive seen no evidence this has been the case here. So, I cant 
reasonably say Barclaycards mistake led to Miss L being financially disadvantaged. 
Barclays investigated and offered a resolution to Miss Ls complaint before our investigator 
completed his investigation. And I believe the proposed resolution is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances here. So, while I appreciate Miss L will be disappointed, I shant be 
asking Barclays to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman