DRN-3877327
The complaint
Mr R complains that West Bay Insurance Plc avoided his motorbike insurance policy after he 
made a claim following a theft.
What happened
Mr R had an insurance policy for his motorbike. In November 2021 the bike was stolen and 
he made a claim. 
After considering the claim West Bay informed Mr R that it was declining it and avoiding his 
policy (cancelling it as if it never existed). It said that the motorbike was stolen from a 
different address than that registered on the policy. And if it had known that Mr R had 
multiple addresses or that he wasnt storing it in a garage overnight it wouldnt have offered 
a policy in the first place. It therefore said it was avoiding the policy.
Mr R didnt think this was fair, he said he usually kept the bike at the address he had 
declared on the policy (address 1) but he had been temporarily living at a caravan at a 
different address (address 2) while he built a property on that land. He said he had only 
temporarily stored the bike at address 2 while there were issues with fuel shortages, 
however as it wasnt his main vehicle he usually stored it at address 1 at all times. He made 
a complaint to West Bay but it didnt change its position. So Mr R brought it to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She said 
in order for West Bay to fairly avoid the policy, under the relevant law it would have to show 
that, amongst other things, Mr R was asked a clear question when he took out the policy. 
And that Mr R failed to answer that question correctly. She said that on considering the 
screen shot from the website where Mr R purchased the policy, she didnt think what he had 
been asked was clear. Therefore she wasnt satisfied Mr R had made a misrepresentation 
and West Bay hadnt acted fairly by avoiding the policy. She therefore thought West Bay 
should remove any record of the policy avoidance and consider any claims during the policy 
period. She also thought it should pay £150 compensation to make up for the distress 
caused.
Mr R accepted our investigators outcome. However West Bay didnt. It said it would have 
declined to offer cover if it had known Mr R had two addresses or if it had known the bike 
wouldnt be stored in a garage overnight. It also pointed to an endorsement in the policy that 
stated that where a bike isnt stored overnight in a garage close to the policyholders 
residence then claims wouldnt be covered. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
West Bay has said that it considers Mr R to have made a misrepresentation when he took 
out the policy with it. And that it wouldnt have offered the policy if he had provided correct 
information.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
West Bay thinks Mr R made a misrepresentation when he provided the address the vehicle 
was kept at and his own home address. Ive looked at the questions Mr R was asked when 
he took out the policy. First he was asked the following questions:
Where is the bike kept overnight to which he selected the answer Garage. He was then 
asked Address bike is kept overnight, to which he provided address 1.
Later in the application there is a section titled personal details. Under this section he is 
asked for his name and date of birth. Under this it says selected address and the address 
provided for where the bike is kept automatically pulls through into this space. There is no 
further detail provided about what is required here. As Mr R entered address 1 in the 
previous question, this automatically pulled through and he didnt opt to change it. 
Based on this, I dont think the application made it clear that the address provided in 
response to selected address should be the address that the consumer resides at. It 
doesnt specify that this should be either a personal or correspondence address or that it 
needs to reflect where the customer resides if it isnt the same place as the vehicle. Instead 
selected address could reasonably be considered to apply to the address you had selected 
for the vehicle previously in the application, especially as this is the address that 
automatically populates. And I dont think it was made clear enough that this address should 
be different if he is going to reside at an alternative address, even just for a short period of 
time. Especially considering the importance of this information due to the fact the provision 
of two different addresses entered in answer to these questions would lead to the application 
being declined. 
Further Mr R has said that residing at address 2 was only a temporary arrangement and he 
was staying in a caravan while work was completed on a new home that was being built on 
that land. So even if I had considered the question to have been clear, I understand why he 
may not have considered the temporary address the appropriate one to provide. 
Based on this, as I dont think there was a clear question asked, I dont think its fair to say 
that Mr R made a misrepresentation when he took out the policy. And where there hasnt 
been a misrepresentation under CIDRA West Bay isnt able to take any remedial action. So I 
dont agree its acted fairly by avoiding Mr Rs policy.
I note West Bay has referenced the endorsement in the policy that relates directly to storing 
the vehicle in a separate place to where you reside. And that this was drawn to Mr Rs 
attention. However this endorsement only relates to policy cover and states that claims will 
not be covered where this is found to be the case. And it makes no reference to the 
cancellation of the policy. So I dont agree its fair for West Bay to rely on this endorsement 
to avoid Mr Rs policy. 
For these reasons I dont think West Bay acted fairly and reasonably by avoiding Mr Rs 
policy. I therefore agree with our investigator that it should remove any markers  both 
external and internal that show a cancellation or avoidance of the policy. And it should consider any claims that arose in the relevant policy period. I also agree that the avoidance 
of Mr Rs policy will have caused him some distress and West Bay should pay £150 
compensation to apologise for this.
It isnt clear whether Mr R had to purchase insurance at a higher premium due to West Bays 
avoidance, but if he has West Bay should pay the difference between what he would have 
paid with it and the new premium to make up for this financial loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Rs complaint. I require West Bay Insurance Plc to:
Remove all markers from both external and internal databases that show a policy 
cancellation or avoidance. 
Consider any claims that arose during the policy period in line with the policy terms 
and conditions. 
Pay Mr R £150 compensation.
Pay any difference in premiums Mr R has had to pay due to the avoidance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman