DRN-3756691
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to his purchase of some 
solar panels.
Mr C is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr C bought solar panels for his home in July 2017. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable under the Act for the acts and omissions of 
the installer. Mr C says the installer misled him into believing that the panels would be self-
funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that the installer had 
misrepresented the system to Mr C and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The CMC 
did not agree, and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the estimated 
benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right is the figure £198.72. I think this figure is 
conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine print. To the left it says that the finance amount is 
£6,070, payable over 120 months, or ten years. This document was signed by Mr C 
immediately below those figures, and so I am satisfied that the installers salesman did bring 
this information to his attention.
The loan interest does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mr C could be 
forgiven for overlooking it. However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly come 
to £607 each year. That is about three times the stated benefit figure for the first year. Again, 
I think this is clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr C about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan, and so I dont think it is plausible than the salesman told him otherwise. It is not 
likely that the salesman told him words to the effect of these panels will pay for themselves; 
please sign this piece of paper that says they wont.
(The CMC has provided a copy of a High Court judgement in which a similar claim about 
allegedly self-funding panels was upheld.1 However, that case was decided on its own facts, 
with a different installer and different paperwork. I have read it, but it does not change my 
mind.)
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 Hodgson v Creation Consumer Finance Limited [2021] EWHC 2167 (Comm).