DRN-2538509
The complaint
Company T has complained that QBE UK Limited (QBE) made a deduction from the market 
value it paid when T made a claim under its commercial motor insurance policy. This was 
because the MOT had expired when the car was stolen.
What happened
In April 2020 T made a claim because its car had been stolen. The MOT had expired a while 
before the theft. QBE made a deduction from the market value it paid because it said this 
reduced the cars value.
T brought the complaint to us because it was unhappy with the settlement offer; a deduction 
of 20% which was later reduced to 10%. It wasnt satisfied that the offer reflected the true 
value of the car.
Our investigator thought that QBE had decided the original market value of the car fairly and 
in line with the motor valuation trade guides. However, he thought it was unfair that QBE had 
reduced the market value by 10% because the car didnt have a MOT. Miss T of Company T 
told our investigator shed been unable to get a MOT because shed been shielding at home 
during the coronavirus pandemic as she had vulnerable children.
Our investigator found that there were minimal advisories on previous MOT certificates and 
there wasnt any evidence to suggest that the car would have failed a future MOT. So he 
thought QBE should refund the 10% reduction it had made. 
QBE didnt agree it said whether the car would have passed its MOT or not was not a factor 
in their decision to reduce the settlement offer made; it was because the car wasnt worth as 
much without a valid MOT certificate. So the matter has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im going to uphold Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that QBE reached a fair valuation based on the trade guides prior to the 
deduction it made for the lack of MOT certificate. Ive checked the various motor valuation 
guides and I think QBEs offer seems fair. As T seems to have accepted this I dont propose 
to go over this any further as I think the valuation is fair.
The MOT expired in February 2020 which was before the first national UK lockdown was 
enforced; so, I understand why QBE didnt consider this in the claims process. I also dont 
think it was unreasonable for Miss T to have chosen to protect her family given that it was an 
evolving situation in terms of how the virus affected different groups of society.
Regardless of the circumstances Id only say it was fair for QBE to deduct 10% from the 
market value of the car if it could show how that would have affected the cars value. QBE 
hasnt provided anything to show that the car wouldnt have passed a MOT or why 10% is an 
appropriate deduction in this case. I think it is likely that the car would have been put through 
its MOT once the lockdown was eased and I havent been provided with anything to suggest 
that there would be any significant problem with the car.
So, I think QBE should increase the market value by the deduction it made for having no 
MOT certificate. And I think it should pay interest in line with our usual approach on the 10% 
difference from the date it paid the claim to the date it pays T.     
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require QBE 
UK Limited to pay T the difference in the market value that it deducted for its car 
and pay 8% simple interest per year on any outstanding money from the date of 
claim until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman