DRN-3643303
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with how Leeds Building Society (LBS) managed the return of his
daughters passbook when it was unable to update it at the time he was in the branch.
What happened
LBSs systems were down when Mr G went to get the passbook updated. They offered to
hold onto it, update it as soon as possible and post it back. He chased it up after seven days.
It had been sent out first class, but not received by Mr G.
Mr G complains that he was never offered the option of return by recorded delivery; no
return paid envelope (as promised) was included with the forms he then had to complete for
a replacement passbook  and this was administrative work for him.
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint. He said Mr G suffered distress and inconvenience
as a result of LBSs systems being down; his passbook then getting lost in the post and him
needing to complete and return forms for the replacement. It seemed he also had to pay to
return the forms as no pre-paid envelope was included. He said LBS should pay Mr G £100
to compensate him.
Mr G accepted this investigation outcome, but LBS disagreed. It said, in summary:
it is unreasonable to expect its systems to work 100% of the time and its terms set
out that it is not liable for any financial loss due to circumstances beyond its control -
plus Mr G did not suffer any financial loss;
it offered to post the passbook back to help Mr G so he could avoid making a second
branch visit;
the correct process was followed to generate the replacement passbook  the branch
manager has confirmed a pre-paid envelope was included; and
LBS cant be held liable for the failings of the postal service.
So in the round £100 compensation is excessive. LBS asked for an ombudsman to review
the case so it was passed to me. I reached a similar outcome to the investigator, but I 
planned to make a different award. So I issued a provisional decision to give both parties a 
chance to submit any new information. An extract follows and forms part of this final 
decision.
Extract from my provisional decision
I accept LBSs point that by offering to keep the passbook and return it by mail it was trying
to minimise Mr Gs inconvenience. It updated the passbook that same day and mailed it out 
to Mr G. I also agree, as is our approach to such issues, that it is unfair to hold TSB liable for
the non-receipt of the passbook. Its policy is to use first class mail to send out passbooks.
That is its commercial decision and not something we would interfere in. However, I note it
could have offered Mr G the option to select recorded delivery, which he confirms he would
have done to avoid any worry, and it failed to do this. But equally, the lost passbook has not
gone on to create any fraudulent activity or financial loss.
I cant fairly reach a certain conclusion on whether a pre-paid envelope was included with
the forms Mr G had to complete as the parties testimonies are certain, but contradictory.
However I dont think this is material to the overall outcome as my proposed compensation
takes into account that there may have been a small postal cost for Mr G.
So, in the round, whilst there was a failing on the part of LBS by not offering recorded
delivery, I dont think this oversight means £100 is fair compensation. I accept that Mr G had
to complete forms for the replacement book, and possibly pay to return them. But I also have
to consider how long this overall incident impacted Mr G for. Overall I find £50 to be a fairer
settlement to recognise LBS did cause some avoidable inconvenience that in turn created
short-term stress for Mr G when he discovered the passbook was lost.
Mr G responded to this saying he felt the award that was initially proposed of £100
was fair as LBS have acted with disregard to him as a customer.
LBS responded saying it thought part of its final response letter had been misinterpreted. It 
wanted to clarify that whilst it sometimes uses recorded delivery if it has a special request 
from a customer (or if required because of package weight) it would never offer it directly to 
a customer as it is not in its procedure. It said Mr G was happy for the passbook to be sent 
first class at the time.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered both parties additional comments I am upholding Mr Gs complaint and 
awarding £50 compensation. I will explain why.
I acknowledge LBSs point of clarification that it does not offer recorded delivery as part of its 
standard procedure. However, as it says, it has the capability to send items by recorded 
delivery in certain circumstances. And in this case had it made Mr G aware it could do this it 
is most likely he would have made that special request. I think this nuance is relevant as 
whilst I accept LBSs argument that its not reasonable to expect its system to work 100% of 
the time, nor is it reasonable that the subsequent avoidable inconvenience this caused Mr G 
should not be recognised. 
It seems to me unfair to rely on the fact Mr G didnt explicitly ask for recorded delivery given 
he was unaware he could request it. To be clear, I am not challenging LBSs position that 
offering recorded delivery is not part of its standard procedure, rather I find that had it 
considered offering it in this particular instance Mr G could have been spared the distress 
and inconvenience he suffered. And for that reason I find it should now pay Mr G £50 
compensation.
With regards Mr Gs comment that £100 compensation was a fair outcome - as he did not 
supply new information showing any additional distress and inconvenience he suffered that 
was not taken into account in my provisional decision, I have no grounds to increase the 
award. 
Putting things right
LBS must pay Mr G £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.My final decision
I am upholding Mr Gs complaint and Leeds Building Society must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman