DRN-3596204
The complaint
X is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, refused to raise a 
chargeback claim on their behalf.
What happened
X used their Clydesdale debit card to make a purchase online. A voucher was supposed to 
be applied to the purchase, reducing the price from £19.37 to £9.37. However, the voucher 
wasnt successfully applied, and X was charged £19.37.
X asked Clydesdale to make a chargeback claim to the merchant to recover the £10, but 
Clydesdale declined to do so. X wasnt happy about this, so they raised a complaint.
Clydesdale looked a Xs complaint. They explained they didnt feel the chargeback claim 
would have been successful on the basis of the information X had been able to provide to 
them, which was why the chargeback claim hadnt been raised.
X wasnt satisfied with Clydesdales response, so they referred their complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Clydesdale 
had acted unfairly towards X in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold 
Xs complaint.
X remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin Id like to clarify what a chargeback claim is. Its a process by which some disputes 
are resolved between the card issuer, in this case Clydesdale, and merchants, under the 
relevant card scheme rules. 
 
These rules are set by the card provider, whose symbol is on the card. The card provider 
has an agreement with banks and building societies as to how its cards are used, and this 
agreement covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made. These rules are quite 
strict, and Clydesdale doesn't have the power to change them. 
 
Its also important to note that a chargeback claim isnt a right that a customer has  its a 
voluntary act. This means Clydesdale werent required to ask the card provider for the 
transaction to be reversed via the chargeback scheme, although it is considered good 
practice for them to do so, if they think the chargeback claim is likely to succeed. 
But in this instance Clydesdale didnt feel the chargeback claim requested by X was likely to 
succeed. And having considered all the information available to me here I feel that 
Clydesdales position here was reasonable.
This is because the nature of what happened meant that X wasnt able to reasonably 
evidence that they should be reimbursed £10 as they believed. X received goods valued at 
£19.37 and paid £19.37 for those goods. And while it may have been the case that a 
voucher should have been applied which would have reduced the price paid for those goods 
to £9.37, X hasnt been able to provide an invoice for that amount to validate their claim.
Additionally, it appears that the merchant offered to replace the voucher, and while X may 
have declined that offer, the merchants offer seems fair to me. And one of the terms of the 
card providers chargeback scheme is that a fair offer of resolution made by a merchant 
should take precedent over a potential chargeback claim request.
So, while I can appreciate Xs frustration here, Im satisfied that the rules of the chargeback 
scheme meant that it was always highly likely that if Clydesdale had raised the chargeback 
claim as X requested, that claim would have been unsuccessful. And in such circumstances, 
it wouldnt be excepted that Clydesdale would raise the chargeback claim as X was wanting.
All of which means that I find it very difficult to conclude that Clydesdale have acted unfairly 
towards X as X contends here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Clydesdale to take any further action.
I realise this wont be the outcome X was wanting, but I trust theyll understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman