DRN-3325366
The complaint
Mr M complains Starling Bank Limited is withholding a sum of money. He says he is entitled 
to the money and hes been treated unfairly.
What happened
Mr M held a current account with Starling. He received a large payment from a third party in 
June 2020. He says he was helping a friend buy an expensive carpet for their business. He 
says he knew someone who sold the kind of carpet his friend wanted.
Starling noticed the payment and blocked Mr Ms account to carry out a review. It asked Mr 
M to explain the purpose of the payment and his relationship to the payer. And, after 
receiving Mr Ms explanation, they asked for a statement from the payers account showing 
the payment being made, which Mr M provided. They also asked for any other evidence he 
had to support his version of events, but Mr M was unable to provide anything more. Starling 
completed its review and decided not to return the funds to Mr M. They later closed his 
account.
Mr M says he later repaid his friend using his own money and money borrowed from his 
family. He claims he repaid his friend in cash to avoid experiencing further problems. He 
provided our service with statements for another account he holds elsewhere, which show 
he received a large payment in May 2021 from someone who shares his surname. The 
statements go on to show he withdrew cash over several days and the total amount he 
withdrew matches the value of the payment he received into his Starling account. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. They found:
Starling were able to block Mr Ms access to his account. They must monitor 
accounts and it was understandable why they wanted to investigate a large payment 
made by a third party.
Mr Ms explanation for the payment wasnt persuasive. All Mr M had to do was 
provide the carpet sellers details to his friend so his friend could contact them and 
make a purchase directly. There was no need for him to act as an intermediary.
The statements Mr M provided to show him allegedly paying back his friend werent 
persuasive. The payment he received from a family member and his subsequent 
cash withdrawals were made nearly a year later. If his friend was chasing him for 
repayment, he would have likely repaid them much earlier.
Starling were acting in line with its regulatory and legal responsibilities by retaining 
the funds.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators conclusions and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. As a result, his complaint has been given to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Starling has important legal and regulatory obligations to meet when providing accounts to 
customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account is opened. 
They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, 
and to prevent and detect financial crime.
To comply with its responsibilities, Starling will monitor accounts for activity which appears 
unusual or out of place. Its common industry practice for firms to restrict access to an 
account in order to conduct a review on a customer and/or the activity on an account. Doing 
so helps prevent potential financial loss or harm. The large payment Mr M received was 
unusual for him, so its understandable why Starling stopped him accessing the payment 
while they looked into matters.
Its possible the payment was made to Mr M for him to purchase an expensive carpet for his 
friends business. But I find the arrangement very unusual and I am not persuaded by what 
Mr M has said. A business will usually make payments to a supplier directly. So, if Mr Ms 
friend wanted a carpet and Mr M knew who to contact, then it would make far more sense for 
his friend to contact the carpet seller and make a payment directly. I see no reason why Mr 
M or his account needed to be involved.
Given the size of the payment and its alleged purpose, I would expect Mr M to have had 
some form of written record to confirm why the payment was being made, as well as details 
of the carpet his friend wanted to purchase, such as its size and colour. Mr M says he only 
communicated with his friend verbally about the arrangement. And this may be the case, but 
I dont find this means Starling should be satisfied by his explanation.
Im not persuaded the statements Mr M presented establish that he received money from his 
family to repay his friend in cash. The payment from a family member and his cash 
withdrawals were made nearly a year after his account was blocked. If they were made to 
repay his friend, its more likely they would have been made earlier, and Mr M would have 
records to show his friend chasing repayment. 
Its not clear why Mr M would conclude he had a responsibility to repay his friend when the 
funds were being held. It was his friends financial loss and not his, and his friend could 
pursue the matter themselves either through their own bank or through the court.
Mr M told Starling he felt their review was a discriminatory act. Ive no reason to doubt Mr M 
feels this way. But Ive considered all the information and evidence available to me, and I 
find Starling has not treated Mr M differently because of his background or that it would have 
treated someone else who doesnt share his background differently in the same 
circumstances. I understand why Starling wasnt satisfied by Mr Ms explanation and lack of 
supporting evidence. So, I am satisfied they acted in line with their legal and regulatory 
responsibilities.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 Ombudsman