DRN-1787456
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to help him when he 
fell victim to a scam. He feels Barclays could have done more to prevent the payments going 
through, or to refund him the money. 
What happened
Mr M won a competition prize of £3,400 and that money was credited to his bank account. 
Shortly afterwards Mr M was contacted by someone who he believed to be the competition 
organiser. He was told that hed need to return some of the money for tax purposes. Mr M 
subsequently made three online payments totalling £500  two payments for £200 each on 
24 April 2019 and a final payment for £100 on 26 April 2019. It then became apparent to Mr 
M that hed fallen victim to a scam. He therefore rang Nationwide at 6.14am on 27 April 2019 
to tell it what had happened and to see if there was anything it could do to help. Nationwide 
contacted the scammers bank to see if any of Mr Ms money could be retrieved. But the 
scammers bank confirmed that no money remained from Mr Ms transactions.
Our adjudicator thought that Nationwide had done as much as it could to help, so he didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr M disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Having done so, I think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfers to 
leave Mr Ms account. And I think it took appropriate steps to try and recover funds from the 
beneficiary bank. So, I cant fairly say that Nationwide should reimburse Mr M with the £500 
he lost. Ill explain why in more detail.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When Mr M 
made the payments, he didnt know he was dealing with a scammer, so he sent the money 
in good faith. This means that  at the time  he wanted the payments to go ahead and 
authorised them to be made. And I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair 
and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare duty).    
Regulated firms like Nationwide are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years - which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
 
In this case, I need to decide whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr M when he transferred £500 or whether it should have done more than it did. But I 
dont think the payments were particularly suspicious or unusual enough to say Barclays 
ought to have had concerns that Mr M was being scammed. I dont think it was sufficiently 
suspicious to conclude Nationwide ought to have identified that it may be potentially 
fraudulent. 
When Mr M told Nationwide hed been scammed, it contacted the scammers bank to see if 
any of Mr Ms money was still in the receiving account and could be retrieved. Although Mr 
M contacted Nationwide at 6.14am on 27 April 2019, it didnt send the scam notification form 
to the beneficiary bank until 9.51am, so over three hours later. Furthermore, Nationwide 
made a mistake in asking the beneficiary bank to check if any funds were remaining in the 
beneficiary bank at 6.30pm rather than 6.30am. The beneficiary bank had to ask for 
clarification about 6.30pm on which day. Nationwide then did confirm that it needed to check 
if any funds were remaining at 6.14am on 27 April 2019. However, none of this made a 
difference as the beneficiary bank confirmed that there were no funds remaining at the time 
that Mr M reported the scam. So even if Nationwide had contacted the beneficiary bank with 
the correct information immediately after speaking to Mr M, there would still have been no 
money left to refund to Mr M. Nationwide has offered Mr M £30 compensation for the 
administrative errors that it made.Any further investigations into what happened to the money after it left the scammers 
account werent the responsibility of Nationwide and it wouldnt have unrestricted access to 
that information. Mr M says that the beneficiary bank is at fault as well for allowing the 
scammer to set up an account in the first place. However, this decision is only looking at the 
conduct of Nationwide in responding to Mr Ms report that he had been scammed. 
Contacting the scammers bank to try and retrieve his money was all Nationwide could do to 
help at that time.
Its extremely unfortunate that Mr M has lost money. I understand that the whole experience 
will have been hugely upsetting for him. But in the circumstances, I cant fairly say that 
Nationwide should have done more to prevent his loss. I cant hold Nationwide responsible 
for Mr M having fallen victim to a scam and I think that Nationwide took appropriate steps to 
help him once it knew what had happened. So it would not be fair to ask Nationwide to 
compensate Mr M for his loss.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. However, Nationwide should now pay 
Mr M the £30 that it offered him for administrative failings if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman