DRN-2728713
The complaint
Ms D and Mr C are unhappy with the amount Lloyds General Bank Insurance Limited 
(Lloyds) offered to cash settle their claim under their buildings insurance. The policy, 
covering buildings and contents, is in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Ms D 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Ms Ds shower leaked into the wall cavity, causing damage to both her bathroom and kitchen 
ceiling. She made a claim under her buildings insurance, which Lloyds accepted. Ms D 
provided two quotes for the repairs of around £5000 and £7000. Lloyds appointed a Loss 
Adjuster (LA) which estimated the repairs at around £8000. Ms D asked for a cash 
settlement based on the lower of her two figures.
Lloyds then appointed a claims consultant who proposed a settlement amount significantly 
lower than Ms Ds lowest quote. Lloyds offered a cash settlement of a little over £3000 
based on its claims consultants estimate. 
Ms D complained to Lloyds, but it maintained its offer. Lloyds said that as Ms D was going to 
arrange the work herself, the quotes didnt matter. It also said that the higher quotes 
included work not covered by the policy, such as extra tiling. However, Lloyds did accept that 
it hadnt dealt with the claim well and offered Ms D £350 compensation.
Our investigator upheld Ms Ds complaint. She thought that Lloyds hadnt made a fair offer 
given that three of the repair quotes were higher than its cash settlement. She also said that 
the claims consultant appeared to be less qualified to quote for the work than the other three 
companies. For these reasons, our investigator thought Lloyds should cash settle the claim 
based on the lowest of Ms Ds quotes, less the difference in cost of the disputed tiles. She 
also thought it should pay an additional £150 compensation to Ms D for the distress and 
inconvenience, bringing the total compensation to £500.
Lloyds disagreed. It said its claims consultant had significant experience and that the 
schedule of work was fair. Lloyds repeated that the other quotes included repairs and 
materials not covered by the policy, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain.
The key issue here is that Ms D doesnt think the cash settlement Lloyds offered is enough 
to repair the damage to her home following an escape of water. Lloyds accepted the claim, 
but it thinks it made a fair offer in line with the costs it wouldve incurred had it completed the 
repairs.
As the cause of the damage is not disputed, and Lloyds has accepted the claim, Ill focus on 
whether Lloyds has shown that its cash settlement offer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
After accepting the claim, Lloyds agent prepared a work schedule and estimate of cost. Ms 
D preferred to use her own contractors, who provided quotes for the same work. One of Ms 
Ds quotes at around £5,000 was the lowest of the three and she wanted to cash settle 
based on that quote. Lloyds obtained another estimate, from a claims consultant, which was 
lower than Ms Ds at £3,446. It offered to cash settle at the lower amount.
Ive looked at the reason Lloyds gave for seeking a further estimate, followed by a cash 
settlement offer lower than its original estimate and Ms Ds lowest quote. Lloyds said that the 
other quotes included work not covered under the policy. However, it has only mentioned the 
extent of tiling quoted for and the cost of the tiles. I asked Lloyds for a schedule of work for 
its lowest estimate to compare with Ms Ds quote. It provided a general summary of work but 
it hasnt directed me to any items on the other schedules which are outside the scope of 
insured repairs. The cost of the tiles doesnt account for the difference between Ms Ds 
quote and Lloyds offer, and theres nothing in the information to persuade me that Ms Ds 
quote included uninsured items. So, I see no reason for Lloyds to reject Ms Ds request on 
the basis that her quote includes uninsured items.
As Ive said, the only item Lloyds mentioned as being outside the scope of cover was the 
cost of tiling. Ms Ds and Lloyds contractors quoted for replacement of all tiles, but the policy 
only covered replacement of damaged tiles. That said, Lloyds has since agreed to cover the 
replacement of all tiles because the existing ones are no longer available. However, Lloyds 
thought Ms Ds quote for the cost of the tiles was excessive, and its claims consultant 
identified similar tiles at a fraction of the price.
I can understand that Ms D would want her home restored to a good condition, but it isnt fair 
to ask Lloyds to cover any element of betterment. The tile price Lloyds quoted was low and it 
agreed a slightly higher price, bringing it close to half of Ms Ds claim at £11.99. Our 
investigator recommended that Lloyds settle the claim based on that price rather than its 
lower offer or Ms Ds higher price, and I think thats fair. It will allow Ms D to restore her 
home to a standard similar to that before the escape of water, and she is free to pay more 
towards the tiles if she wants to achieve betterment.
To settle the claim, Lloyds should be putting Ms D back in the position she was in before the 
damage happened. To do that, it should either complete the repairs for her or pay for the 
repairs to be completed. As Ms D asked Lloyds to cash settle, its entitled to pay only what it 
wouldve cost it to complete the repairs itself. The first three quotes were for the cost of 
completing the repairs, one of which was prepared by Lloyds contractor. If that contractors 
quote had been lower than Ms Ds, the work schedules matched, and Lloyds offered the 
lower amount, then its likely I wouldve considered it fair. Thats because Lloyds couldve 
done the work for less than Ms Ds quote. 
However, as Ms Ds quote was lower than Lloyds estimate, it implies Lloyds wouldve made 
a saving by cash settling at her requested amount  it wouldve paid Ms D less than its own 
contractor quoted. But Lloyds went on to get another estimate for the work and offered a 
much lower cash settlement. The problem here is that the estimate was prepared by a highly 
experienced claims consultant, but one who wouldnt have been doing the work for that 
amount. Lloyds wouldve still needed to negotiate the cost with the company it employed to 
complete the repairs. So, the claims consultants estimate isnt a fair representation of the 
cost to Lloyds to complete the repair.As Lloyds first quote represents the actual cost to Lloyds, then I see no reason why Lloyds 
shouldnt cash settle at the lower amount requested by Ms D. For the avoidance of doubt, 
Lloyds should cash settle Ms Ds claim using her revised quote of £7,118.70, less the policy 
excess and any deductions for the tiles.
I note that Lloyds doesnt think the other quotes matter because Ms D intends to complete 
the work herself, but I dont agree. Providing Lloyds is settling the claim at a cost no more 
than a reasonable estimate of its own cost to complete, then its irrelevant whether Ms D 
completes the work herself. Thats because once Lloyds pays the cash settlement, it will 
have indemnified her in line with the policy. Lloyds had an opportunity to provide an up to 
date quote or comment on Ms Ds revised quote, but I havent seen any evidence of further 
comments. I understand Ms D was eager to have the repairs done, so, in the absence of 
further information, I see no reason to delay this matter any longer. 
Finally, Ive thought about whether Lloyds offer of compensation was enough in the 
circumstances. It paid £350 in recognition of the distress that inconsistencies in the 
estimates had caused Ms D. I think its helpful that Lloyds acknowledged some of its 
mistakes in handling Ms Ds claim, but I dont think the payment goes far enough. 
Overall, I can see that Lloyds contributed to delays getting this matter resolved. Its decision 
to offer a low cash settlement without giving a reasonable explanation for it caused 
inconvenience for Ms D and she didnt feel able to complete the repairs while the matter was 
ongoing. I note the damage also spread to the bedroom wall, requiring additional work. 
Because of these delays, and additional inconvenience and distress, Im satisfied that a total 
compensation of £500 is warranted. 
In summary, despite accepting Ms Ds claim, it seems that Lloyds unfairly offered a lower 
cash settlement than it wouldve cost to complete the repairs itself, and it caused avoidable 
delays. Therefore, I uphold Ms Ds complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Lloyds 
General Bank Insurance Limited must:
pay Ms D her revised quote of £7,118.70, less her excess and the necessary 
deductions for the tiles, and
pay an additional £150 compensation, bringing the total payment to £500, for the 
inconvenience and distress caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2021. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman