DRN-3135784
The complaint
Miss R complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank irresponsibly 
increased the credit limit on her credit card account to an unaffordable level.
What happened
Miss R says she asked Tesco to increase the credit limit on her credit file in around June 
2018. She says the existing limit was £2,400 and Tesco increased it to £4,400. Miss R says 
she earned £15,000 a year and the new limit was unaffordable and shouldnt have been 
approved. She says she couldnt afford the increase and would like Tesco to refund interest 
and charges.
Tesco says the account was opened in 2017 and that Miss R asked for the credit limit 
increase. It says it carried out appropriate checks and could see that Miss R didnt have any 
adverse information on her credit file. Tesco says the account was well managed and still is 
and any difficulties may have been caused by the pandemic lockdown. It says there was one 
missed payment prior to the increase, and it calculated that Miss R could have used her 
disposable income to increase the monthly payments.
Miss R brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator thought further checks ought to have been carried out by Tesco and it ought to 
have considered how she would repay this debt. The investigator thought the new credit limit 
was about one third of Miss Rs income and she was close to the existing credit limit when it 
was increased. The investigator didnt think the lending was sustainable and recommended 
all interest and charges refunded over and above the existing limit and any adverse 
information removed from Miss Rs credit file.
Tesco doesnt accept that view and says Miss R is still using her account. It says appropriate 
checks were carried out and the lending was affordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view as the investigator and for similar 
reasons.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending or credit application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of that lending or credit facility. And must consider the ability of the borrower to 
repay the lending.
There is no dispute by either party to this complaint that the original credit limit was 
appropriate and so I will not comment on that.
I can see that Miss R told Tesco she earned £15,000 a year and was in employment. I can 
see that Tesco did carry out affordability checks on her credit limit application and took into 
account her existing account management. I can also see that Tesco considered the one 
missed payment by Miss R and that she didnt have any adverse information such as 
defaults on her credit file at the time of the application in around June 2018. So, I accept that 
Tesco didnt simply approve Miss Rs application but considered it in the light of what it knew 
about her and the external information about her other debts.
I have looked carefully at how Miss R managed her account and looked carefully at her 
credit file which I think Tesco also ought to have considered in detail. Im satisfied that Miss 
R had used nearly all of her existing credit by the time of the application and was just making 
repayments close to the minimum. I can see from her credit file that she had three other 
credit card accounts and took out high cost borrowing in April 2018 and again in June 2018. 
And that her current account was overdrawn.
So, I think Tesco ought to have considered that information when assessing Miss Rs 
application for a credit limit increase. I think that information warranted further questions that 
ought to have been asked by Tesco about why Miss R wanted the increase. I think it 
significant that this wasnt a system driven increase but a request by Miss R. I also think 
Tesco ought to have considered how Miss R was reasonably able to repay a potential credit 
limit of nearly one third of her annual income in circumstances where her existing debt was 
increasing and in circumstances where in the past she had simply made minimum 
payments.
I appreciate what Tesco says about making minimum repayments and that in itself doesnt 
demonstrate financial difficulties or unaffordability. But I have made clear there were a 
number of other factors that Tesco ought reasonably to have considered as this was a 
significant credit limit increase to a relatively significant amount. I dont think Miss Rs ability 
to repay this debt had anything to do with the pandemic and can see that she had used most 
of her credit limit in 2019.
Overall, Im satisfied that Tesco ought to have considered Miss Rs application in more 
detail. It ought to have asked her about the application and considered in more detail the 
affordability of it in the light of the increase in her borrowing before and at the time of the 
increase. Im also satisfied that Tesco ought to have considered how this debt would be 
repaid and the merits of allowing such a proportionaltely large credit limit when Miss Rs 
finances appeared to be in a worse position that when the account was opened.
Putting things right
Tesco should refund interest and charges applied to the increased credit limit balance and 
deduct them from the balance owed by Miss R. I cant see that any adverse information has 
been reported on Miss Rs credit file as a result of the increase but if it has then it should be 
removed. I dont think there will be an actual repayment to Miss R here and no doubt Tesco 
will consider reducing Miss Rs credit limit.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading 
as Tesco Bank to refund any interest and charges applied to Miss Rs account caused by the 
credit limit increase in June 2018 and that it remove any adverse information from her credit 
file if appropriate.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman