DRN-3151494
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
October 1999. Mr H says American Express Services Europe Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. Whilst the case has been awaiting an 
ombudsman decision, American Express confirmed Mr Hs case was affected by the 
regulators rules on non-disclosure of commission. It has not offered to pay back some of the 
cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit share Mr H 
paid. 
Mr Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided American Express should have 
disclosed the commission it received - but that American Expresss offer to refund some of 
the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think American Express made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. Ill explain why. 
Mr H applied for the PPI by post. American Express has provided the application form 
that Mr H completed, and I can see within in there is a separate section for its: Purchase 
Protection Insurance. Within this section there is a brief description of the cover on offer 
and the applicant has to tick a box if they want this added to their account. On Mr Hs 
form he has ticked this box. 
I would have expected Mr H to have had an opportunity to read over the form he 
wouldve completed and raise any questions he had at the time. Taking everything into 
account, I think its more likely that Mr H knew the policy was optional and he agreed to 
take it out without undue pressure. 
American Express didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H - so it didnt have to check that the 
PPI was right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr H enough clear and timely 
information so he could decide for themselves if it was right for him.
Its possible the information American Express gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr H. Based on the 
information provided it seems Mr H may have had a medical condition when the PPI was 
taken out. However, I dont think better information about the existing medical exclusion 
wouldve caused him to change his mind about taking out the policy. I say this because 
Mr H hasnt told us about any extended periods of time off work because of a health 
condition or of any long-term issues he experienced because of it. There were also no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. 
Mr H has told us he wasnt entitled to any sick pay and he had no other means of 
meeting the card repayments if he couldnt work. So, it seems like it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong. It also seems the PPI was affordable for Mr H. 
Overall, I dont think Mr H would have declined the cover had American Express done 
anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr H would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant American Express should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Hs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means American Express doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
Non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided American Express should have disclosed the commission it 
received and that its offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
Was there an unfair relationship?
American Express didnt tell Mr H about the high levels of commission and profit share paid 
in this case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
American Express and Mr H was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because American Express didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit 
share in this case 
I dont think American Express acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr H because 
it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Hs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr H should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: American Express failed to tell Mr H about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr H wouldnt have taken out the 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshippolicy had they known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all 
the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr H 
in order to remedy the unfairness caused by American Express not disclosing the high level 
of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr H representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for American Expresss failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for American Express to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs 
guidance and return some of the money Mr H paid for his PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr H 
with the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if American Express had 
done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So, I consider that American Expresss offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances.
 
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Hs complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
American Express Services Europe Limited should pay Mr H an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman