DRN-3507680
The complaint
Mr R complains about a credit card account he has with Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case. It was my intention to come to the same 
outcome as our Investigator, but I wanted to explain things in more detail and so I wanted to 
give both parties to the chance to respond with anything else they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision on the matter. 
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision. 
Mr R says hes had a credit card account with Nationwide since 2014. He says one of the
features of the card was that he got 0.5% cashback on anything he purchased with the card.
Mr R says that recently he noticed that hed stopped receiving cashback on his purchases,
and after further investigation noticed that this feature had been removed from his account in
December 2020. Mr R also added that he then noticed that the cashback amount had
reduced to 0.25% in late 2017 or early 2018. He says he wasnt informed about any of these
changes to the account.
Mr R says that he has lost out on cashback from the purchases he has made, and he would
like Nationwide to put things right by paying him back cashback he lost out on, at a rate of
0.5%.
Nationwide looked into things for Mr R but it didnt uphold his complaint. It said that it had
removed the cashback feature on the account from 1 December 2020  and it said it let all
its members know about this in a Summary of Change notification in their statement.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R. They found that Nationwide had notified Mr R of
the changes to his account and gave him the option of closing the account if he didnt want
to accept the changes. The investigator also found that the terms and conditions of the
account allow Nationwide to make changes. So they didnt think that Nationwide had acted
unfairly.
Mr R didnt agree. He said that the statement didnt include information about the reduction
of the cashback rate  or that it intended to remove the feature completely. He adds that he
didnt receive the Summary of Change document that Nationwide said it included with the
statement. So, Mr R doesnt agree that Nationwide notified him.
Because Mr R didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
In the statement Nationwide sent to Mr R on 8 October 2020, which he has confirmed he
received, it says We have sent this statement to you as we are making changes to your
agreement. A summary of the changes and a copy of the new agreement have been
included for you to read. If you're happy with the changes we're making, you don't need to
do anything else and the changes will automatically apply from 1st December 2020.
However, if you don't accept any of the changes you have the right to close your account
without charge. We'll cancel your card straight away, but if you have an outstanding balance,
you'll need to repay it before we can close your account. You can do this by contacting
Credit Card Services on the number at the top of your statement.
Mr R says he didnt get the Summary of Change document that Nationwide says it
included. So, Mr R says Nationwide didnt notify him that the cashback feature had been
removed. Even if I accept that the document wasnt included with the statement, it still
doesnt change my decision. The statement Mr R says he received states that there would
be changes to the terms and conditions. Mr R could have contacted Nationwide direct to ask
about these changes had he not received the Summary of Change document. But he didnt
do this.
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs account say that Nationwide can make changes to the
agreement. And so, it can make a decision to remove certain features of the account. This is
the same with most credit card terms and conditions, and there isnt anything unfair about
this. The changes applied to all of Nationwides members with that type of credit card
account, and so I dont find that Mr R has been treated any differently to any of its other
members.
In line with the terms and conditions, Nationwide provided Mr R with notice of the changes.
And it gave him the option of closing his account if he didnt want to accept the changes. So
again, I think Mr R was given an option to close the account if he wasnt happy.
I can see that a similar scenario to the above happened in 2017 when the cashback amount
was reduced. Nationwide says it sent its customers another Summary of Change document
to notify its customers that it intended to reduce the cashback amount. It said it would have
sent this by email and the email would have been like the one sent to Mr R about the
removal of the cashback.
I appreciate that Mr R says he didnt receive notification of this change either. But I still dont
think this means that Nationwide didnt send him notification of it, or that it was wrong of
Nationwide to make the change. Again, the terms and conditions of the account allowed it to
change certain features of the account  and Nationwide has said that it notified all of its
customers about this before the change.
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time, Nationwide say it no longer has a copy of the
email it sent about this particular change. But on balance, I think it more likely that not that it
sent Mr R an email to let him know about this.
It follows that I dont currently intend to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Nationwide responded to say it accepted the findings in my provisional decision. Mr R responded and reiterated that he didnt get any written confirmation of what the 
changes to his account were going to be, and so he feels that Nationwide have breached its 
own terms and conditions in not making him aware of the changes to his account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, it is still my decision not to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Nationwide has confirmed that it sent the Summary of Change document to Mr R  and this 
would have been by email. Nationwide only retains copies of these types of emails for 90 
days, so it isnt now possible to be able to see the copy that was sent to Mr R. But I dont 
think this necessarily means the document wasnt sent.
The Summary of Change document that Nationwide says it sent to Mr R would have 
included information about what the changes were going to be. Even if Mr R didnt receive 
this document, then he ought to have been aware of its existence because it was mentioned 
on the statement Mr R received. Mr R could have contacted Nationwide for more information 
about the changes had he not seen the Summary of Change document  and asked 
Nationwide to resend this document to him if, as he says, he didnt get it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman