DRN-4263832
The complaint
Mr P complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), lent to him 
irresponsibly. Mr P says at the time he had several other loans outstanding which means 
that he could not afford the loan Mr Lender granted him. 
What happened
Mr P was advanced one loan of £300 on 12 February 2020. He was due to make six monthly 
payments of varying amounts, with the largest monthly repayment being £112 and the 
smallest being £62.40. Mr P had some problems repaying the loan, but he eventually did so 
through a repayment plan on 8 January 2021.  
Mr Lender issued its final response letter and it explained that it checks showed the loan was 
affordable. The complaint wasnt upheld. Unhappy with this response, Mr P then referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and issued her view explaining why she 
wasnt going to uphold it. She thought the checks Mr Lender carried out showed that Mr P 
would likely be able to afford his repayments. 
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators assessment saying that he has had other cases  
(with loans issued around the same time as this Mr Lender loan) reviewed and these have 
been upheld in his favour.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the amount
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances.
Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, such as how
much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ps income and expenditure. I think 
in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have done more to
establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P. But I dont consider that this
applied to Mr Ps circumstances given only one loan was advanced. 
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loan  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was able to repay
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint. 
Firstly, I am sorry to hear about the impact Mr Ps financial situation had on him and its clear 
from what he has told the Financial Ombudsman that he had a difficult time. I do hope things 
have improved for him. 
Having considered everything that Mr Lender did before it lent this loan  along with the 
comments Mr P has provided, I am satisfied that a proportionate check was carried out by 
Mr Lender which showed it, that Mr P would likely be able to afford his repayments. Ive 
explained my reasoning below. 
Mr Lender asked Mr P to declare his income and expenditure and it also carried out a credit 
search. Mr P declared that his net monthly income was £1,308. Mr Lender says this income 
was checked through open banking  the results of this check havent been provided. But 
having looked at Mr Ps bank statement this income appears accurate, so for a first loan  
where a modest amount was lent, I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to have used this 
income figure for its affordability assessment. 
Mr P was then asked to declare monthly outgoings across a number of different categories 
including mortgage / rent, credit commitments, utilities and travel to name a few. My 
understanding of Mr Lenders lending practices means it is likely that it used information it 
received from the credit report and data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS). 
Mr Lender hasnt said whether it carried out these further checks as part of its affordability 
assessment. 
But whether it did or didnt compare what Mr P declared against the ONS data, or his credit 
file, doesnt change my mind about the complaint because it was proportionate to either 
accept what Mr P was saying or to have done the extra checks. 
What I can say, is that for the affordability assessment Mr Lender used monthly outgoings of 
£776. Based solely on the income and expenditure information Mr Lender gathered Mr P 
had potentially enough disposable income to afford the largest repayment for the loan. 
Before the loan was approved Mr Lender also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results it received from the credit 
reference agency. I want to add that although Mr Lender carried out a credit search there 
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
This can mean that the results a lender may see could be different to the information that a 
consumer may be able to view in the credit report they can download from a credit reference 
agency. However, if information was given to Mr Lender which indicated that Mr P was either in 
financial difficulties or couldnt afford the loan, then I would expect it to react to that and 
possibly take a different course of action. 
Having looked at the credit results sumamry, there wasnt anything in my view, that wouldve 
led Mr Lender to have carried out further checks. It knew Mr P wasnt insolvent either 
through an Individual Voluntary Arrangement, bankruptcy or had a County Court Judgement 
within the three years preceding the loan. 
It was also told that Mr P didnt have any outstanding AAI  which means advanced against 
income which is another name for a payday loan. So, the information Mr Lender received 
suggested that Mr P wasnt reliant on payday loans at the time.  The information, Mr Lender 
collected from Mr P as part of his affordability assessment also didnt suggest that he was 
reliant on other loans. 
Mr P provided some further submissions that he was borrowing from other loan companies 
at the same time as he was taking this Mr Lender loan. Mr P has also said he has successful 
raised complaints about them. While that may be the case, I have to consider what has 
happened in the individual circumstances of this case and having done that I am still 
concluding that proportionate checks were conducted.  
My role is to assess a case on the individual circumstances and facts, so there may be 
occasions where cases which appear to have similar circumstances can lead to different 
outcomes. In the circumstances of this complaint, I am satisfied given this was a first loan for 
a modest sum along with the results of Mr Lenders checks that it was not inappropriate 
based on the information for Mr Lender to advance this loan. 
Overall, it was reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on the information Mr P provided 
about his income and expenditure as well as the credit check results that Mr Lender 
received. The checks Mr Lender carried out were proportionate and showed that Mr P 
should be able to afford the repayments and there wasnt anything else to suggest the loan 
would either be unaffordable or unsustainable for him. 
I am therefore not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman