DRN-3615752
The complaint
Ms M complains Barclaycard (Barclaycard) defaulted her account.
What happened
Ms M had a credit card from Barclaycard. She worked in the airline industry and her 
income was badly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. She had two payment holidays 
which ran from 28 June 2020 to 30 January 2021. In March 2021, the limit was £6,000 and 
the balance was £5,881. Ms M paid in £200 on 3 March 2021; £23.63 on 9 March 2021; 
and £300 on 7 April 2021. Ms M called Barclaycard on 3 March 2021. Her income & 
expenditure was negative and she was given a zero-payment plan for 60 days. Barclaycard 
said they wanted to see a revised income and expenditure form from Ms M by 5 May 2020. 
On 6 May 2021, Barclaycard defaulted the account and Ms Ms credit file was marked with 
the default.
Ms M complained. She said she was on furlough, but her income was significantly reduced 
as result. She hadnt understood the plan she was given in the first place and wanted to 
avoid a default. She had told Barclaycard in March 2021 that she was hoping to go back to 
regular work shortly. She said she was overwhelmed by the emails and letters from 
Barclaycard. She had called Barclaycard on 11 May 2021  and couldnt see why they 
wouldnt give her a period of grace from the 5 May 2021 deadline. She had done 
everything she could to keep her payments up to date by getting help from family and 
friends. She said she had suffered a lot of stress and anxiety because of what happened.
Barclaycard said that based on Ms Ms income and expenditure form, she had a negative 
disposable income. So, they placed her on a zero offer plan. This gave Ms M 60 days 
notice to make standard minimum payments, or her account would be terminated and 
defaulted  and the credit reference agencies (CRAs) advised of the default. Barclaycard 
acknowledged that she had made the minimum payments. But as she hadnt called back by 
5 May 2021 with her updated income and expenditure, the default was registered. They said 
that even though Ms M had made the monthly payments, because this was assisted by her 
friends and family, they couldnt accept this as regular income. They said the default would 
remain in place.
Ms M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclaycard acted reasonably. He 
said that as a responsible lender, they couldnt be expected to allow Ms Ms account to fall 
into arrears, and so defaulting her account was the right thing to do. Barclaycard had done 
the right thing by putting the zero offer in place, and in asking for a review of Ms Ms 
income and expenditure after 60 days. They wanted to ensure that Ms M could afford the 
repayments  to make sure she could get back on track. And as she didnt do that, they 
defaulted her account.
Ms M asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I take a different view to our investigator. I dont think it was reasonable for Barclaycard to 
offer the 60-day zero-offer plan when Ms M called on 3 March 2021, nor was it reasonable 
to default her account in May 2021.
Ms M had had two consecutive payment holidays up to 30 January 2021. In April 2020, 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in response to the 
effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including Barclaycard had to 
put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including credit cards  to help 
customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two payment holidays 
each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed payments would 
not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest would still be debited to the 
accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of October 2020.
The intention was to provide short term support  usually in cases where customers would 
be returning to work within a short period of time. And so  where a customers situation 
was that they were in longer term difficulty, then payment holidays under this scheme 
werent normally agreed.
In September 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme would change from the 
end of October 2020. From then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty  
but it was down to their discretion and customers circumstances. And  reporting to credit 
reference agencies was reintroduced for people that had already had the maximum six 
months of payment holiday.
And so  because Ms M had already had two payment holidays, she couldnt have another 
one. And because I can see that her account was then over her limit by February 2021 (the 
balance was £6,383 against the limit of £6,000), I think it was doubtful that Barclaycard 
could have agreed a further payment holiday anyway  as it looks like Ms M needed a 
different form of support  as she had been on furlough for a long time by then.
I can see that Ms M called Barclaycard on 3 March 2021. I havent listened to the call as 
Barclaycard havent provided it to us  but in responding to this provisional decision, they 
might like to do so. I can see from the notes of the call that Ms M completed an income and 
expenditure form  and it showed a negative monthly income of £230  that is, her 
outgoings were more than her income. In those circumstances, the FCAs guidance is that 
businesses like Barclaycard should treat customers in difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration. For example, a business might suspend or waive interest, accept lower
payments or defer them, and allow customers more time to repay their debt.
So  Barclaycard agreed the zero-offer plan, in line with the FCAs guidance. The plan had 
zero interest and charges. Barclaycard said they would put the plan in place for 60 days  
until 5 May 2021. But by then, they said they wanted to see a revised income and 
expenditure statement from Ms M, otherwise they would default her account. In a letter 
dated 3 March 2021, Barclaycard said they wanted Ms M to call them by 5 May 2021 to 
arrange to pay your standard minimum payments. If you dont do this, well register a 
default with the credit reference agencies. The letter also said that if Ms Ms situation 
didnt change, they would register the default.
But  on the call (as the notes of the call show), Ms M thought her situation would improve 
in the next three months; and, that she could maintain the payments to the account. So on 
the one hand, I can see that Barclaycard wanted to be sure that Ms Ms situation would 
improve (by her returning to work)  but equally, I dont think it was reasonable to say that 
Ms Ms account would be defaulted if she didnt provide an income and expenditure form 
by 5 May 2021. And because she said she would probably return to work soon; a short 
term 30-day hold would have been more reasonable.
But - the key point here is that Ms M did make the minimum payments to her account  
when she called Barclaycard on 3 March 2021, her account was paid up to date. And after that - she paid more than the required minimum amount in respect of the statements 
dated 25 March 2021 and 29 April 2021  so her account wasnt in arrears at all.
The guidance for dealing with defaults is laid down by the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO). This says when a consumer is at least three months behind with their 
payments then a default may be registered. And it would expect a default to be registered 
by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments. It is the business 
responsibility to put an entry on the credit file. This cannot be taken off unless it is an error. 
And in Ms Ms case  she wasnt in arrears, even by one month. So  I think Barclaycard 
made an error here.
Barclaycard said to us (and also in their final response) that the default was reasonable 
because Mr M couldnt show she could make the payments from her income, and had to 
rely on family and friends  but I dont think thats a reason to default an account  because 
that means Barclaycard were essentially making a judgment on what might happen in the 
future, which I dont think is fair or reasonable. The fact is that Ms M was making the 
payments and her account wasnt in arrears.
I also listened to the calls on 8 March 2021 and 9 March 2021. On 8 March 2021  Ms M 
clearly said she didnt understand what shed been told in the call on 3 March 2021.
Barclaycards call hander said he could see that Ms M wasnt in arrears and said I dont 
know why they put you on that planyoure not even behind (on payments)..it shouldnt 
really have been doneI wouldnt have mentioned the zero offer to you but put a short 
term hold on the account for 30 daysto see if income changes.
Ms M called again on 9 March 2021 and the call handler then said, if you keep up to date 
with payment, that will prevent any defaultwe would only default if you cant make the 
minimum payments. She said that two or three more times. She confirmed Ms Ms 
account was up to date. She also said Ms M only need to call back if her circumstances 
changed  when she went back to work. In the final sign off to the call  the call handler 
said Ms M needed to contact Barclaycard by 5 May 2021 to update her income and 
expenditure form to avoid a default. But she then concluded by saying again that if the 
payments were maintained, a default would be avoided. And so, on both calls the dominant 
message was that if Ms M made the payments, there wouldnt be a default.
And so, my provisional decision is to uphold Ms Ms complaint. I dont think the zero-offer 
plan was the right thing to do, and a short-term 30-day hold wouldve been more helpful  
to see if Ms M was to return to work as she hoped. And as she maintained the payments in 
March 2021 and April 2021  her account shouldnt have been defaulted. Barclaycard 
should remove the default (and any other adverse information between March 2021 and 
May 2021) from Ms Ms credit file. Ms M also argues that she has been stressed and 
depressed by what happened - especially in the context of being on a significantly reduced 
income for a long period. And I can see that. So, an award of compensation of £200 is also
appropriate here.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Barclaycard agreed; and Ms M acknowledged receipt but had no comments.
I now need to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Barclaycard agreed with the provisional decision, and Ms M had no comments, I am not 
going to depart from it in my final decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard must:
Remove the default from Ms Ms credit file and remove any other adverse 
information also for the period March 2021  May 2021.
Pay compensation of £200 for stress and inconvenience. Ms M should advise us 
how she would like this to be paid  to her bank account or credit card account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman