DRN-3223707
The complaint
Miss G complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided a loan that was unaffordable. 
What happened
Miss G took out a loan with Everyday Loans as follows:
Loan Date 
takenLoan 
amount Term Monthly 
repaymentAmount 
payable
1 01/02/2018 £2,000 24 months £205.91 £4,941.84
The loan purpose was recorded as debt consolidation  in other words, Miss G said she 
would use the loan to repay other debt. 
When Miss G complained to Everyday Loans it didnt uphold her complaint so she brought 
her complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that 
Everyday Loans shouldnt have provided the loan. Our adjudicator recommended that the 
complaint should be upheld and set out directions indicating what Everyday Loans should 
do to put things right. 
Everyday Loans disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said Miss Gs total monthly 
income was more than it had allowed for in its affordability assessment and so her 
disposable income would have increased significantly. In addition, she had very small 
overheads given that she lived in another household and did not pay rent. Also, the loan was 
to clear loans with four identified pay day lenders. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Everyday Loans asked Miss G about her income and expenses  including what she spent 
on her credit commitments. It also did its own credit check to understand Miss Gs credit 
history. Everyday Loans verified that Miss Gs minimum monthly income was around £1,337. 
It also took into account nationally available statistics when thinking about Miss Gs likely 
spending and based on this, Everyday Loans said Miss G shouldve been able to afford the 
monthly repayment on this loan. It worked out that after using this loan for the planned debt 
consolidation it had discussed with her, Miss G should still have more than £100 spare cash 
each month.
Like our adjudicator I think those checks were broadly proportionate. But despite recording 
information that appeared to show that Miss G had enough spare cash each month to cover 
the loan monthly repayments, I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised that it couldnt rely 
on this information. Thats because what Miss G had declared was significantly at odds with 
what Everyday Loans saw in the information it had gathered during the loan application 
process. 
I say this because Everyday Loans could see from its credit checks that Miss G had some 
money problems showing on her credit file  she was four payments behind on an account 
that now reported as delinquent, she had a defaulted account within the last 12 months and 
along with the fact that she had used 95% of her available credit, this all suggested that 
Miss G was potentially having some financial difficulties. I think that concern was borne out 
by other information Everyday Loans could see on the bank statements it looked at during 
the loan application process. These showed that Miss G was typically overdrawn on her 
current bank account by a substantial three figure amount, she was incurring daily overdraft 
fees and some direct debits were being returned due to lack of funds  despite the evidence 
Everyday Loans saw of other lending having been taken.  
I think our adjudicator was right to say that all the indications were that Miss G 
wasnt managing her money well and she was already struggling financially. To my 
mind, it shouldve been apparent that Miss G probably didnt have the amount of 
disposable income that Everyday Loans calculated - or indeed any spare cash, given 
that Miss G was having difficulty maintaining payments she already owed to 
creditors. All the signs were that her finances were, in reality, under significant stress 
and her debt was already unmanageable. 
I dont think Everyday Loans was reasonably able to be satisfied in these 
circumstances that Miss G would be able to make its loan repayments in a sustainable 
way. 
I've taken into account that Everyday Loans understood that the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation. But Everyday Loans didnt have control over how Miss G used the loan as it 
paid the loan balance to her. Having seen the extent of her evident reliance on taking out 
expensive credit, I think it was apparent that there was a real risk Miss G would use the loan 
to meet her immediate financial demands. So all the indications were that she would most 
likely remain in serious financial trouble regardless. I also think it was unreasonable to expect her to be able to commit to paying around half her 
income towards debt repayments over the loan term. I think this was such a significant level 
of her income Everyday Loans shouldve realised it was unlikely that she would be able to 
maintain the loan repayments at this level. Im also mindful that despite the evidence 
Everyday Loans had gathered which showed the extent of Miss Gs financial difficulty, its 
loan would increase the amount Miss G would need to pay each month - even if she had 
used the loan to consolidate the debt Everyday Loans understood she would clear. All in all, 
its hard to understand how this loan wasnt going to be detrimental to Miss G. 
In coming to my decision I've taken carefully into account everything Everyday Loans has 
said, including its response to our adjudicators view  but this doesnt change the outcome. 
The extra income apparent on the bank statements Everyday Loans could see wasnt 
necessarily dependable, it was specifically intended to cover other costs and it wasnt 
enough to make the loan affordable for Miss G. She would still need to pay a 
disproportionate amount of income towards debt servicing costs and Everyday Loans 
shouldve recognised this wasnt a sustainable position for her to be in. 
Looked at overall, I cant reasonably say that Everyday Loans made a fair lending 
decision based on the information in front of it. I dont think Everyday Loans was able 
to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for Miss G. And so it 
shouldnt have provided it and Everyday Loans needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss G to repay the capital amount that she borrowed 
because she had the benefit of that lending - but she shouldnt repay more than this. Everyday Loans should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Miss G received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Miss G made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss G having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss G bearing in mind the need to 
treat her positively and sympathetically if she still needs further time to pay what she 
owes.
Whilst its fair that Miss Gs credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend this loan. So 
Everyday Loans should remove any negative information recorded on Miss Gs credit 
file regarding this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted 
if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right for Miss G. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman