DRN-3797569
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain Cavendish Online Ltd (Cavendish) mis-sold them Life Cover.
What happened
In 2007, Mr and Mrs M took out a level term life assurance policy through Cavendish. The 
policy term was for 15 years.
In 2021, after becoming unwell, Mrs M contacted the policy provider to make a claim but 
were advised their policy didnt include critical illness cover (CIC), which was required for 
them to make a claim.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Cavendish as they remembered asking for all events to be 
covered when the policy was taken out. Because theyd not been given what theyd asked 
for they believed the policy had been mis-sold.
Cavendish didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. While they werent able to provide a 
copy of the call from the time, they said theyd acted on an execution only basis and hadnt 
provided any advice. They also said the documentation showed Mr and Mrs M had only 
enquired about life cover and theyd signed to confirm they were happy.
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy so brought their complaint to our service. Our Investigator 
looked into things but didnt find that Cavendish were at fault for the type of policy taken out.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our Investigators opinion saying theyd brought the life policy 
based on the understanding both CIC and terminal illness cover (TIC) were also included, 
and that Cavendish had a duty to have given them what they asked for.
Because no conclusion could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs M feel strongly about whats happened here and Im sorry to hear 
theyve been going through and continue to go through a very difficult time. However, whilst I 
appreciate itll be a disappointment to them, Im not upholding their complaint. Ill explain 
why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than has been provided, and 
Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Also, its important to say theres limited information available relating to the sale of the 
policy, which is unsurprising as Mr and Mrs M took it out some 15 years ago. 
In the absence of further information, such as the call recording, whilst Ive considered the 
information Mr and Mrs M have provided as part of their complaint submission, Im minded to 
place more weight on the evidence I do have from 2007. 
This isnt to say I doubt Mr and Mrs Ms recollection of what was discussed at the time, 
rather that the documentation in question is a record of what was completed at the time the 
policy was taken out.
Cavendish sold Mr and Mrs Ms policy to them on an execution only basis meaning they 
didnt provide any advice as to the suitability of the policy taken out.
Mr and Mrs M signed a declaration at the time confirming they wished to apply for a term 
assurance life cover policy having not sought or received any advice from Cavendish. The 
policy quote they went ahead with included TIC for no additional cost to the premium.
Where no advice was given, Ive needed to consider if Cavendish gave Mr and Mrs M 
information that was clear, fair and not-misleading, allowing them to have been able to fully 
understand the features of the policy. And Im satisfied Cavendish did.
I understand Mr and Mrs M say they were ignorant of the terminology at the time and 
believed TIC was the correct cover to put in place. Theyve said they assumed theyd been 
given what they asked for. But I have to consider this alongside the evidence available from 
the time.
Mr and Mrs M say they asked for their life cover to include the possibility of either of them 
being unable to work. Im not questioning their recollection but as they know, Im unable to 
listen to the call from the time of the sale. And Ive seen the information provided within the 
quotation they received before going ahead with the policy  which explained the benefits 
and limitations of TIC clearly.
The quotation provided made no reference to cover being provided in the event of either 
being unable to work.
In summary, whilst Im deeply saddened by the situation Mr and Mrs M find themselves in, 
Cavendish didnt provide advice to them as to the type of policy they should take out.
And Im satisfied Mr and Mrs M were provided with clear, fair and not-misleading information 
before proceeding. Based on the evidence available to me, I dont consider Cavendish mis-
sold this policy to Mr and Mrs M.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman