DRN-3375989
The complaint
Mr H complains about Soteria Insurance Limited trading as Co-Op Insurance (SIL) and the 
service he received after he was involved in a road traffic accident (RTA).
Mr H has been represented by his son during this complaint. For ease of reference, I will 
refer to them both as Mr H throughout the decision.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr H was involved in an RTA. So, he contacted SIL, his car insurance 
provider, to make a claim. Mr H explained his belief that the third party was at fault for the 
accident and he wanted the claim to be settled on a non-fault basis.
SIL arranged for Mr Hs car to be inspected. This inspection was completed by a third-party 
engineer, who Ill refer to as M. M deemed Mr Hs car to be beyond economical repair due 
to the damage caused by the collision and so, they provided their pre-accident valuation 
(PAV) of the car. Mr H was unhappy with this valuation, so he raised a complaint.
Mr H didnt think the valuation of his car was fair, considering the amount offered compared 
to the purchase price hed paid nine days prior to the accident. And he didnt think the 
inspection report compiled by M wasnt as detailed as hed expect. So, he wanted the PAV 
payment offered to him to be increased.
SIL responded and upheld Mr Hs complaint. Although they thought the report M compiled 
was reasonable, they recognised the PAV first offered to Mr H was lower than the highest 
PAV found using the market guides. So, they increased Mr Hs PAV by £308 to a total of 
£12,568.00.
Mr H remained unhappy with this valuation and he wanted an additional £400. Mr H also 
wanted his excess to be refunded to him. And Mr H was also unhappy SIL had charged him 
twice for his cherished plate and wanted this cost refunding to him.
SIL responded again, explaining the PAV wouldnt be increased. But they did offer Mr H 
£100 to recognise Mr H had been charged twice for his cherished plate involved in the 
accident. Mr H remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained the PAV Mr H 
received fell within the ranges of valuations theyd found using the market guides, in line with 
the standards set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So, they didnt think they could 
say the PAV Mr H received was unfair. 
They also recognised Mr Hs belief that the report compiled by M led to the claim being 
settled on a 50/50 basis rather than non-fault. 
But our investigator explained we were unable to comment on the quality of the report or 
alter the way the claim was settled. And as the claim was settled on a 50/50 basis, he didnt 
think SIL needed to refund Mr Hs excess. And finally, our investigator explained they 
thought the £100 SIL offered Mr H in relation to the mistake with the cherished plate was fair. 
So, they didnt think SIL needed to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree. He maintained his view that Ms valuation of the car, and the report M 
compiled, was unfair. He referred to the report stating the cars condition was fair, which he 
disagreed with. And he thought this unfairly impacted the valuation he received. And he 
thought the lack of detail in the report meant SIL had no way of arguing the claim was the 
third-parties fault, and this is why he thought the excess should be refunded.  As Mr H didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr H. I understand Mr had 
purchased his car only just before he was involved in the RTA. So, I can understand how 
frustrating this wouldve been and why hed question the PAV he received when it was for 
less than the purchase price he paid. And I appreciate Mr H feels strongly about the RTA 
and his belief that it was the third-party that was at fault. So, I can understand why Mr H 
would be left frustrated that it was settled on a 50/50 basis, meaning he was unable to claim 
his excess back.
But I think its important for me to explain exactly what Ive been able to consider when 
deciding the complaint. Im aware much of Mr Hs concerns centre around the report 
compiled by M. But Im unable to comment on the quality of this report, or any of Ms actions, 
as M is an independent engineer and so, is not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
and outside of our services jurisdiction.
I appreciate Mr H may not agree with this and will feel as though Ms actions and report is 
something we should look into as M was instructed by SIL. But as M was instructed to act 
independently and produce an independent report, this isnt the case.
What I can consider is the service SIL provided to Mr H. So, Ive thought about whether SIL 
considered Mr Hs concerns about the valuation M provided fairly to ensure this valuation 
seemed reasonable. And whether theyve acted fairly, and in line with the terms of the policy, 
when deciding to settle the claim on a 50/50 due to the impact this had on Mr Hs excess. 
And in this situation, I think they have.
First, Ive thought about the valuation of Mr Hs car. I recognise the PAV payment Mr H 
received was less than the purchase price he paid a relatively short period of time before. 
But as Mr Hs policy with SIL explains, any PAV will be based on the market price which isnt 
necessarily the price a car would retail for. So, I dont think this alone means the PAV Mr H 
received was unfair.
I can see Mr H raised concerns about the initial valuation M provided. And Ive seen SIL 
considered this and offered Mr H a further £308, which took the PAV payment to just over 
£12,500. Ive considered this amount against the motor trade guides valuation of Mr Hs car 
that calculate the market price valuation of vehicles in line with industry regulations. And Im 
satisfied the PAV payment Mr H received falls within the range of valuations these guides produce. So, I cant say the PAV payment Mr H received is unfair. Nor can I say SIL failed to 
consider Mr Hs initial concerns, as they agreed to increase the PAV payment following their 
own investigation. So, I dont think SIL need to do anything more in respect of this complaint.
Although I cant comment on the report M provided, I am aware Mr H has raised concerns 
about the classification of his vehicle condition, which was stated as fair. But I want to 
reassure Mr H that further down the report, it confirms the valuations provided were based 
on the car being in good condition. So, I dont think this had any impact on the valuation he 
received. Nor do I think SIL have acted unfairly by not increasing the PAV on this basis.
Ive then thought about Mr Hs unhappiness that his excess hasnt been returned. Mr H 
thinks the lack of detail in Ms report provided him with no reasonable chance of the claim 
being settled as a non-fault claim. But I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen SILs system notes and communication they had with the third-party insurer. And 
its clear that both Mr H and the third party deemed each other to be at fault for the collision. 
And both parties provided differing testimony as to how the collision occurred. 
Ive seen SIL wrote to Mr H on 8 June, explaining that due to the differing testimony and the 
evidence available held by both parties, they thought it was likely that if the matter were to 
go to court, it would be settled on a 50/50 basis. They explained that the only way this could 
be challenged would be if Mr H was able to provide an independent witness that supporting 
Mr Hs version of events. And from what I can see, I dont think this was an option to Mr H. 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Ms report was the cause of the claim not being settled 
in Mr Hs favour. So, I dont think I can say that SIL acted unfairly by proceeding to settle the 
claim without challenging to contents of that report.
And the terms of Mr Hs policy explain that SIL will be entitled to the full conduct and control 
of the defence of settlement of any claim which means SIL had the ability to settle the claim 
in the way they saw fit. On this occasion, SIL agreed to settle on a 50/50 basis to prevent the 
case going to court in order to mitigate costs. And I would expect SIL to mitigate these where 
possible to ensure the value of the claim is kept to a minimum as this was in Mr Hs best 
interests to do so.
As the claim was settled on a 50/50 basis, which I think was fair, then Mr H wouldnt be 
entitled to a refund of his excess as SIL wouldnt be able to claim this back from the third 
party. So, I dont think I can say SIL acted unfairly by not returned Mr Hs excess and I dont 
think they need to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint.
Ive seen SIL accepted they made an error regarding Mr Hs plate and how much he was 
charged in relation to this. From what I can tell, this error was rectified. And in SILs 
response to Mr Hs complaint, they offered him £100 to recognise errors in the service they 
provided. I think this offer is a fair one, and in line with what I wouldve directed had it not 
already been made. I think it fairly compensates Mr H for the short-term frustration and upset 
this caused while also taking into consideration the fact the mistake was accepted and 
rectified. So, I dont think SIL need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for. And I recognise it doesnt help Mr H 
recoup the financial losses he thinks hes incurred. But for me to say SIL should cover the 
losses Mr H thinks hes endured; Id need to be satisfied SIL have acted unfairly. And I dont 
think they have on this occasion.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Soteria Insurance 
Limited trading as Co-Op Insurance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman