DRN-3649699
The complaint
Miss K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt reimbursed the money she lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
Miss K has fallen victim to a romance scam - she made several debit card payments 
because of the scam over a one-year period.
Miss K is a vulnerable person. Her representative helped her to report the matter to Lloyds 
in-branch in September 2021. They said there was a clear change in Miss Ks banking habits 
during the scam  vast amounts were paid out of her account in lots of transactions with a 
high cumulative value  and Lloyds failed to intervene.
Lloyds declined to reimburse Miss K, so this Service was asked to consider the matter.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint, and it has now been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Ive seen that Miss Ks representative has mentioned the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), but the CRM Code is not applicable in this 
case as it only requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams  and Miss K lost her funds via debit card 
payments rather than APPs.
It's common ground that Miss K authorised and consented to the disputed transactions 
under the Payment Services Regulations, using the debit card thats linked to her Lloyds 
account. So, the starting point is that Lloyds had an obligation to follow Miss Ks payment 
instructions, and Miss K is presumed liable for her loss in the first instance. But thats not the 
end of the story. There are circumstances in which a bank should make additional checks 
before processing a payment, or in some cases, decline to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm. I consider that Lloyds 
should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
Ive looked at Miss Ks bank account statements and Im not persuaded that there was a 
reasonable indication of financial harm I wouldve expected Lloyds to pick up on. The 
disputed payments were all relatively modest, they were made over a prolonged period and 
mixed in with lots of other genuine transactions, Miss Ks account wasnt quickly drained of 
funds as is often the case with fraud and, over time, the disputed payments became normal 
account activity.
I appreciate that many of the disputed payments were higher value than most other 
payments out of Miss Ks account before and during the scam, and I understand the point 
Miss Ks representative has made about the cumulative value of the disputed payments. But 
Lloyds needs to strike a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in payments, against the 
risk of unduly inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment requests. And, overall, Im not 
persuaded its unreasonable that the disputed payments didnt trigger Lloyds fraud detection 
systems.
Ive noted that Miss K is vulnerable, but the evidence provided by both parties indicates that 
she is in full control of her finances and theres no suggestion that Lloyds ought to have, or 
knew it ought to have, taken special care with Miss Ks account in light of her vulnerability.
Im really sorry to hear that Miss K has fallen victim to such a cruel and callous scam. But as 
I dont think that Lloyds acted unreasonably in processing the disputed payments without 
making further enquiries, I cant fairly or reasonably require Lloyds to reimburse Miss K.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman