DRN-3306800
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc didnt credit his account with funds he deposited.
What happened
Mr A says that he tried to deposit £1,000 in cash through a machine outside a branch late on 
4 August 2020. And that £20 was returned but the other £980 retained by the machine. 
When he raised this a credit was initially made to his account, but Santander then took the 
money back. 
Santander said that the machine Mr A used balanced on the morning of 5 August 2020 when 
branch staff next checked it. In its submission to this service it explained that a different 
customer had made a similar claim on 3 August 2020. And the machine had a surplus of 
cash from that day. This was wrongly thought to be Mr As money and paid to him but had 
now been returned to the other customer. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Santander had provided a 
journal entry showing that when Mr A used the machine notes had been returned. So, he 
didnt think that a mistake had been made in not crediting this money permanently. He 
understood Mr As concerns about the money now going to the other customer. But our 
investigator said that Santander had established that the surplus in the machine occurred 
before Mr A tried to use it. And it said that an engineer had checked the machine to make 
sure no more notes had been captured.
Mr A didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint on 6 January 2022. I set out below what I 
said.
Through our investigator I asked Santander to provide some more information about what 
happened. I wanted to see evidence that the machine balanced on the morning of 5 August 
2020. And a record of the surplus it said was recorded on 4 August 2020 and which it seems 
was initially used to credit Mr As account. I also wanted to see any statements or 
communication from the branch when this was investigated setting out what happened.
Santander said it didnt have any further information to provide. The branch was now closed, 
and it had no documentation to provide from staff. It said that the machine would be checked 
under standard practice by two members of staff. It said it didnt have any information to 
indicate that the two similar claims were connected. 
I said I wouldnt be able to say exactly what happened and I was thinking about what is most 
likely. I would normally expect to see documentary evidence to show the machine had 
balanced and a record of whether any notes had been retained. And of the subsequent 
engineers visit. It seems here that Santanders position is that staff initially made a mistake 
in thinking that a surplus in the machine was Mr As money. So, on any view an error has 
been made and this made me particularly concerned to see some evidence to support what 
is now being claimed as the correct explanation.
There are some points that arent in dispute:
- Mr A was at the machine at around 23:45 on 4 August 2020. He tried to deposit 
money.
- A rejection message was recorded against the transaction saying that notes had 
been returned but this doesnt say how many.
- Mr A called at 23:50 to report what had happened.
- There had been a surplus in the machine of £1,210. The maximum deposit is £1,000 
and so this meant that there was more than one error around this time.
- There were two disputed amounts of £980. Branch staff initially thought that £980 of 
the surplus was Mr As money.
- There is no CCTV retained by Santander.
I could only look at the specific circumstances of Mr As claim here: and not that of the other 
customer. It seems a coincidence that the two claims were similar but thats consistent with 
the machine being generally faulty or with things being suspicious. And it isnt in dispute that 
the machine malfunctioned which is something I thought would be difficult to arrange by     
Mr A. And he would reasonably think that if he hadnt lost money in the machine then no 
surplus notes would be found, and his claim quickly exposed as not a genuine one. The 
limited information I did know about the other claim was that it was made on the evening of 3 
August 2020 and wasnt acted upon before Mr As claim was dealt with. And again, this is 
something that couldnt have been anticipated by Mr A even if he somehow knew about the 
other claim.
Id listened to recordings of the calls Mr A had with Santander that have been provided. In 
my view hes given a consistent account of what happened. Id taken this into account 
alongside the clear errors that were happening for at least some transactions at the 
machine, the lack of any documentary evidence and that staff initially thought that this was 
his money. Hes given a plausible explanation of how he came by this money. So, I found his 
testimony to be reliable taking everything into account. I thought it most likely that an error 
has been made here and so I said I intended to uphold this complaint.
I understood that the money has currently been withheld from Mr As savings account. It 
should be released to him. As this was from a savings account he should be paid interest at 
the rate on the account during the period if this hasnt already been happening. And he 
should be paid £150 for the inconvenience caused to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander said it accepted my suggested resolution. Mr A didnt make any further 
comments.
That being the case I see no need to depart from my provisional conclusions based on my 
previous assessment and the reasons Ive already given.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Santander UK Plc to:1) Release/ refund the funds of £980 to Mr A.
2) Pay interest on those funds at the rate applicable to his savings account if it hasnt 
already done so.
3) Pay Mr A £150 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman