DRN-4486013
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the quality of a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale 
agreement with PSA Finance UK Ltd (PSA). 
What happened
In October 2018 Mr N took out a conditional sale agreement with PSA for a used car. This 
car was just over two years old and had travelled approximately 10,907 miles. It had a cash 
price of £11,088. Under the terms of the finance agreement, Mr N was to pay £250 upfront, 
followed by 60 monthly payments of £246.58.
Mr N says he began having problems with the car at the beginning of January 2023, when 
he noticed spots of oil on his driveway. He says he took it to a local garage, and the oil filter 
was replaced. Mr N says the low oil light came on later that month. He says he took it to the 
garage again, and an oil pressure sensor was replaced. 
Mr N says within a couple of days the oil light came on again, so he stopped driving the car 
and booked it into the garage on 6 February 2023. He says after carrying out diagnostics the 
garage told him there were shards of metal in the oil. He says he was advised further 
stripping down would be needed to identify the exact fault, but it would probably need a new 
engine, which would cost around £6,000.
Mr N complained to PSA. On 10 March 2023 they issued their final response, saying they 
hadnt upheld the complaint due to the length of time since theyd supplied the car to Mr N. 
They said they hadnt seen any evidence to show this fault was inherent, or that it had 
occurred within the first six months. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr N brought his complaint to us. He told us that hed carried 
on paying his monthly instalments to PSA, even though he hadnt been able to use the car 
since the problem with the engine came to light. He says he got another car in April 2023 
and has since been paying to tax and insure both vehicles. 
After looking into what had happened, our investigator said he didnt think the car had been 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr N, because it wasnt sufficiently durable. He 
said PSA should reimburse the £361.79 Mr N had paid for the fault to be diagnosed, and 
arrange for the car to be repaired. 
The investigator said PSA should refund the monthly payments Mr N had made since 6 
February 2023, because he hadnt been able to use the car since then. He thought they 
should also pay Mr N £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed been 
caused, and remove any adverse information that had been recorded on Mr Ns credit file 
about this agreement.
PSA responded, pointing out that the agreement was due to come to an end very soon. 
They said it wouldnt be advantageous or economical to repair the car due to the timescales 
involved in sourcing parts, booking the repair, and the labour costs involved. Instead, they 
offered to arrange to collect the car and end the agreement early. They agreed with the rest 
of the investigators recommendations to resolve the complaint. 
Mr N didnt accept PSAs offer. He said hed almost finished paying off the finance for the 
car, which meant hed soon own it outright. But PSA said they werent prepared to offer him 
anything more. They said the car has minimal value without a working engine at 50,060 
miles, and they felt they shouldnt be offering betterment. 
PSA asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me to make 
a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provision decision saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As the agreement Mr N signed was a conditional sale, this service can consider his 
complaint about it. Under this type of agreement PSA is the supplier of the car, so theyre 
responsible for a complaint about its quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of those goods is 
satisfactory. It goes on to explain that durability can be an aspect of the quality of goods. 
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, it seems likely that a court would 
take into account things like its age, mileage, and history.
I bear in mind that the car was just over two years old and had covered around 10,907 miles 
when it was supplied to Mr N. I dont think a reasonable person would have the same 
standards for this car as they would a newer one with less mileage. But I think theyd still 
expect to be able to drive it for a reasonable amount of time without major issues.
It isnt disputed that theres now a significant fault with the car, and that repairs are likely to 
be very expensive. My starting point is to consider whether this problem is most likely to 
have been due to an inherent fault that would mean the car hadnt been of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr N. 
Mr N has shown us a copy of the garages invoice for diagnostic work dated 7 February 
2023. It records the cars mileage to have been 50,060 at that time. It says:
several large fragments of metal in oil  unsure where metal fragments have come from 
but suspect either camshaft or big end/main bearings  would require engine removal and 
strip to confirm failing but will probably require replacement engine to rectify.
Mr N has provided a copy of the service history booklet, together with details of other 
maintenance hes had carried out whilst the cars been in his possession. Im satisfied that 
its been serviced in accordance with the manufacturers recommendations throughout its 
life. If anything, this car has been serviced more often than the recommended service 
interval. Most of this servicing was carried out by manufacturers garages. I wouldnt expect an engine thats been so well maintained to need to be replaced after only 
50,000 miles. I think Mr N was reasonably entitled to expect the car to last for longer than 
that without suffering such a catastrophic failure. 
On balance, I think it most likely that there was an inherent fault with the engine, because I 
dont consider it to have been sufficiently durable. For that reason, I find it most likely that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr N.
Putting things right
The CRA sets out remedies for consumers whose right to receive goods of satisfactory 
quality hasnt been met. This includes the right to repair, or rejection of the goods. The CRA 
says that, if asked to carry out a repair, the business must do so within a reasonable time 
and without significant inconvenience to the consumer. But it makes it clear that the 
consumer cant demand a repair if this remedy is 
(a) impossible, or
(b) disproportionate, because the cost this would impose on the business would be 
unreasonable. 
Although I havent seen a quote for replacing the engine, there doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that the cost is likely to be in the region of £6,000. I think installing a new engine is 
likely to be a disproportionate remedy in this case, bearing in mind the age and market value 
of the car. And I think its highly unlikely PSA would be able to source a suitable 
reconditioned engine of equivalent age and condition within a reasonable timeframe. 
Having thought about all of this, I dont think it would be fair for me to direct PSA to arrange 
for the car to be repaired. Theyve offered to take it back unrepaired, end the agreement 
early, refund Mr Ns monthly instalments for the period of time he was unable to use it, 
reimburse the expenses hes incurred and pay him a goodwill amount. Ive considered this.
But I dont think that would be a fair outcome here. After paying the final instalment due in 
October 2023, Mr N would own the car outright. As PSA have pointed out, it now has 
minimal value without a working engine at 50,060 miles. If Mr N had been supplied with a car 
of satisfactory quality, I think hed be reasonably entitled to expect it to be worth the market 
value for that type of car with a working engine. 
The CRA makes it clear Mr N can seek other remedies. Ive considered the fairest way to put 
him back - as closely as possible - into the position he wouldve been in if hed been supplied 
with a car that was of satisfactory quality. 
Ive looked at four industry guides to assess what the car was likely to have been worth 
when the agreement came to an end if the engine hadnt failed. Im satisfied that, in good 
condition with 50,060 miles on the clock, the retail market value wouldve been around 
£7,900. Mr N has provided three estimates of the price hed be able to get for the car without 
having it repaired. Taking the average of those three estimates, I think its likely to be worth 
around £900 in its current condition. 
In broad terms, I consider Mr N to have incurred a loss of around £7,000 as a result of being 
supplied with a car that wasnt sufficiently durable. So, to put things right, I think PSA should 
pay him that amount. 
In reaching this decision, I take into account the fact that the car hasnt been used since the 
engine failed. If things hadnt gone wrong, Id expect it to have covered more miles by the 
time the agreement came to an end. I think that reduction in market value wouldve been in the region of £300 - £400. I consider the benefit to Mr N as a result of the cars lower 
mileage to be offset by:
i. the stress and inconvenience caused by having no car to use, followed by the 
financial strain of having to buy another one. Id consider an appropriate level of 
compensation for that to be £250; 
and
ii. the additional expense caused by having to tax and insure a second car for the last 
six months of the agreement period.
To be clear, having awarded Mr N the loss in value of the car PSA supplied to him, I make 
no direction for any of his monthly instalments to be returned. But Mr N has provided 
evidence showing he paid £361.79 to have the engine problem diagnosed, so I think PSA 
should reimburse him for that.
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct PSA Finance UK 
Ltd to:
Pay Mr N £7,000 for the loss hes incurred as a result of being supplied with a car 
that wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Reimburse Mr N the £361.79 he paid on 7 February 2023 for diagnostic work, plus 
8% simple interest calculated from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information thats been recorded on Mr Ns credit file about this 
agreement.
If PSA consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they should 
tell Mr N how much theyve taken off. They should also give him a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one. 
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider.
Mr N said he was happy with my provisional findings and had nothing further to add. 
PSA agreed to reimburse Mr N the £361.79 expense hed incurred, and to remove any 
adverse information about the agreement from his credit file. But they asked me to 
reconsider the cars average value in good running order and allowing for fair usage. 
PSA provided a screenshot showing a valuation of £5,150 for a vehicle in average condition 
in October 2023. They said they dont believe they should be offering betterment by paying 
the retail price that would apply if the car was in good running order, pristine, and on a 
retailers forecourt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful for both parties taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. But after 
carefully reviewing the information and comments provided, my decision remains the same.
PSA have provided a screenshot showing a vehicle valuation of £5,150 in October 2023. As 
this doesnt show what vehicle details were entered to obtain this valuation, I dont find it 
persuasive.I think PSAs main point here is that I should consider the cars trade value, instead of its 
retail value. I disagree. When the agreement came to an end in October 2023, I think Mr N 
was reasonably entitled to expect to own a car of this make and specification with a working 
engine. Whereas now, to get himself into that position, hed have to pay the retail price of an 
equivalent car.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Ive looked at four industry guides to assess what 
the car was likely to have been worth in October 2023 if the engine hadnt failed. Im satisfied 
that, in good condition with 50,060 miles on the clock, the retail market value wouldve been 
around £7,900.
Ive seen no new evidence or information that persuades me this valuation is unfair. Ive 
already set out my thoughts on the fair use Mr N wouldve had of this car if the engine hadnt 
failed, so I wont repeat that here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct PSA Finance UK Ltd to:
Pay Mr N £7,000 for the loss hes incurred as a result of being supplied with a car 
that wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Reimburse Mr N the £361.79 he paid on 7 February 2023 for diagnostic work, plus 
8% simple interest calculated from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information thats been recorded on Mr Ns credit file about this 
agreement.
If PSA consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they should 
tell Mr N how much theyve taken off. They should also give him a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman