DRN-2705117
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has unfairly recorded a marker at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database.
What happened
Mr C had an account with Lloyds. In 2017 it decided to close his account and issued a final 
response about that dated 12 May 2017. Mr C now complains that it then registered the 
marker and says that this is preventing him obtaining an account elsewhere. He says Lloyds 
didnt investigate this properly and let him explain at the time. It has sold the debt on his 
account and the marker should no longer be recorded
Lloyds said it wouldnt be removing the marker. Between 25 October 2016 and 2 May 2017 
Mr C had raised 45 chargeback claims for multiple transactions using his debit card. It 
received evidence that payments were genuine from a number of merchants and re-debited 
the amounts to his account. It decided that Mr C had made fraudulent claims and added the 
marker. Lloyds doesnt retain the chargeback responses after six months. It had offered him 
£100 for not providing clear information about this when he called it on 2 June 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Lloyds do anything more. Mr C told him he was 
getting confused at the time about the number of debits to his account and that he was 
gambling and didnt recognise all the transactions. Mr C said that Lloyds response didnt 
explain its investigation and that he should have been given the opportunity to explain his 
version of events. 
One of the merchants against which chargebacks had been raised was a gambling website. 
Lloyds had recorded that the merchant had provided evidence at the time linking Mr C to the 
account and had provided copies of his identification. Mr C had been under the impression 
that only this merchant had challenged the payments, but Lloyds had also received evidence 
from other merchants and which for example also confirmed the delivery of clothing to his 
address. Mr C hadnt directly disputed the decision to hold him liable for the claims and our 
investigator said that he understood the transactions to be genuine ones. So, it wasnt clear 
what Mr C would have wanted to challenge about them.
Our investigator said hed seem the volume of chargebacks initially refunded and then re-
debited to Mr Cs account. The specific evidence Lloyds received about them at the time 
wasnt now available. But he thought it reasonable that Mr C be more mindful of the activity 
on his account especially after the first few chargebacks. But there were 45 separate 
chargeback claims covering a much larger quantity of individual transactions  up to 250. 
So, he didnt think Mr C was reasonably unaware of all of these. And he thought that Mr C 
knew in advance that these werent genuine claims. Even though Lloyds had sold the debt 
on it had added the marker and so it should still show in this way at CIFAS.
It was clear Mr C hadnt received good service on 2 June 2020, and our investigator thought 
that the compensation offered for this was reasonable.
Mr C didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. There was now no evidence 
from the merchants. He repeated that he hadnt had the chance to put his side and 
challenge what the merchants had said. Lloyds hadnt carried out a fair investigation when it 
decided to add the marker and he didnt think it should be allowed to retain it. Mr C hadnt 
kept the money so he didnt see how this could be considered as fraud and the threshold for 
adding the marker met. He took objection to comments that Lloyds had made internally and 
which he had seen from a SAR stating that he was on benefits and using the disputes 
process to fund his lifestyle. It should have contacted the police, so he would be interviewed 
at the time. And as the debt involved had been sold on Lloyds should no longer be reporting 
the marker anyway.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Lloyds needs 
to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
Lloyds has provided a summary showing that there were 45 separate chargeback dispute 
references covering 250 transactions and a total balance of £17,605 over a period spanning 
October 2016 to May 2017. The statement of Mr Cs account provided shows it was being 
used actively during the period and that there were pay-out credits from the gambling 
company involved  coming to a total during the period of £11,300 and which werent 
disputed. Those credits were followed by withdrawals including using cashpoints.
The information shows that Lloyds processed the chargebacks and I think Mr C has now 
seen from his SAR response Lloyds summary of what merchants involved said. He was 
clearly aware of the re-debit of these amounts. When his account was closed he had an 
overdrawn balance of over £4,400 as a result and he has provided information from the third 
party who took over the debt showing that in July 2019 he still owed this amount.
Our investigator has gained the clear impression from Mr C that he isnt disputing these 
payments and wrote to Mr C on 22 March 2021 saying, as we discussed the chargeback 
claims were raised as genuine mistakes and you now understand the transactions to be 
most likely genuine. That corresponds with what Mr C said on his complaint form to this 
service which was that there were a number of chargebacks raised that I thought were 
legitimate to my account. I was getting confused as in relation to how many times I was 
being debited etc. I innocently raised disputes and the companies came back to Lloyds and 
said that they were fraudulent. I had not way of disputing this because the bank made the 
decision to close my account.
The companies involved were being asked as part of the chargeback process to provide 
evidence to support the transactions being genuine. It was a matter for Lloyds to decide on 
Mr Cs intent in raising the chargebacks. The record Lloyds made of what it received in 
response seems factual based on the evidence held   not that for example the gambling 
company said that Mr C acted fraudulently. So, I am unclear what difference it would have 
made if Mr C had seen any direct response. What is clear though is the number of 
chargeback requests made.
I find this most likely beyond any reasonable pattern of genuine mistakes or confusion. Mr C 
clearly knew Lloyds practice was to refund the payments while the chargeback was being 
considered. And the final result of all the chargeback re-debits was it can be said the overdraft balance. Frankly, I dont accept as plausible that Mr C having authorised these 
payments then made so many genuine and continuing mistakes about them.
I will consider the alternative though which is that Mr C might maintain that he didnt make 
some or all of the payments. He hasnt provided an explanation for how that happened over 
a significant period from his account and with different merchants including the gambling 
company. Again, Im not persuaded this is a plausible explanation given the sheer volume of 
claims. And thats especially given the ongoing debt that resulted and remained for him - 
even though he had complained about his account being closed. So again, I dont think that 
the relative lack of information about the chargebacks now makes a difference.
It does seem in any event that his main issue is with the CIFAS marker itself. And that 
doesnt have to relate to successful fraud but where there are grounds to believe it has been 
attempted too. In my view the weight and volume of chargeback claims is the important 
evidence here in itself. There is also a lack of any specific evidence to suggest that these 
were genuine chargeback claims, a lack of any plausible explanation either that they could 
be such and it seems Mr Cs acceptance that they were genuine. This means that there 
were grounds to think that he had attempted to benefit from making so may false claims. I 
dont see any other likely explanation here. That wasnt something Lloyds was required to 
report to police at the time. He has now had the opportunity to present his comments about 
this marker and I am reviewing whether in light of those it was reasonable for it to be added.
Lloyds says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr C made multiple fraudulent 
chargebacks. So, Ive looked at whether Lloyds was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Lloyds needs to have enough information to make a formal report to 
the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed or attempted, rather than mere 
suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Cs account of events and the evidence Lloyds has provided, Im 
satisfied that Lloyds had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming 
to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr C made multiple chargeback claims not reasonably thinking these were genuine 
and received refunds and which when re-debited contributed to borrowing on 
overdraft.
- Lloyds had grounds to believe that Mr C had attempted to obtained funds back 
fraudulently based on the evidence it had.
- There is no other reasonable and most likely explanation for Mr Cs actions over this 
period.
I appreciate he will be disappointed by my conclusions  about the marker. There was also no 
requirement for Lloyds to remove or alter the marker when it sold the debt as it was 
responsible for raising it. Lloyds has paid Mr C £100 for poor communication and I dont 
have a reasonable basis to require it to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman