DRN-2090216
The complaint
Mr J complains about the service he received from TSB Bank plc when he tried to speak to a 
mortgage adviser about transferring his mortgage into his sole name. Due to this poor 
customer service he wants TSB to waive the early repayment charge (ERC) on his 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr J had a mortgage with TSB that he held in joint names with his ex-partner. He 
approached TSB for assistance as he wanted to transfer the mortgage into his sole name.
Mr J was initially given a telephone number to complete an application but was unable to get 
through. He was then advised to attend a branch where there would be a mortgage adviser 
able to help him. However, when he went to the branch he was told it didnt have a mortgage 
adviser and was told to try another branch further away. 
Mr J then took financial advice from an independent financial adviser. And the IFA sourced a 
new mortgage with another lender. But Mr J says that, with the ERC that TSB is applying, 
the new mortgage is not affordable.
Mr J complained to TSB. TSB agreed that it had provided poor customer service to Mr J, and 
it offered him £100 compensation and £11 for his expenses. It also offered to arrange an 
appointment with a mortgage adviser. But it didnt agree to waive the ERC.
Mr J wasnt happy with TSBs response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Js complaint and said, in summary:
TSB was entitled to charge an ERC under the terms and conditions of the mortgage. 
So she didnt think that TSB would be acting unfairly or unreasonably by doing so;
TSB had apologised for the service Mr J had received and had offered to 
compensate him for his expenses and pay him £100 compensation. But, while she 
agreed that the compensation for his expenses was fair and reasonable, she didnt 
think that £100 was sufficient to compensate him for the substantial distress he had 
suffered. Instead, she suggested that TSB should pay him £200 compensation.
TSB doesnt agree with our investigators suggested redress and says that the redress it has 
offered is reasonable. 
As agreement has not been reached the complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our investigator, and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why Ive reached 
this decision.
Ive seen a copy of the offer letter that TSB sent to Mr J and his ex-partner in 2017. This 
letter sets out the terms on which TSB offered them the mortgage. And paragraph 8 of the 
letter sets out that an early repayment charge will be payable if they repay the mortgage 
before April 2022. So I agree with our investigator that TSB is entitled to charge an ERC if 
Mr J and his ex-partner choose to redeem the mortgage before that date. And, although I 
agree that Mr J experienced poor customer service, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask 
TSB to waive the ERC that Mr J and his ex-partner would be contractually obliged to pay. 
After Mr J complained TSB offered to arrange a mortgage appointment for him. And I see 
from the information supplied to me that TSB did consider an application from Mr J but that 
his application was rejected on the grounds of affordability because he was looking to 
increase the amount of his borrowing.
I acknowledge TSB was trying to help Mr J at this time. But I do agree with our investigator 
that Mr J was caused a great deal of distress by the service he received from TSB when he 
was unable to arrange an appointment. 
Putting things right
In the circumstances of this complaint, Im persuaded that TSB should pay Mr J £200 plus 
£11 expenses to compensate him for the distress he was caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order TSB Bank plc to pay Mr J a total of £211 
to compensate him for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman