DRN-2196574
The complaint
F, a company and firm of solicitors, complains that Barclays Band UK PLC allowed a former 
director (whom I'll call "Mr G") to withdraw money from its account for his own benefit. When 
it recovered funds after Mr G made a fraud claim, it wrongly returned them to him, rather 
than to F. F is represented by its director, Mr K, and has instructed solicitors.
What happened
In December 2018 four online transfers were made from F's office and client accounts with
Barclays to the account of Mr G, who also banked with Barclays. Mr G told the bank that he
had been the victim of fraud. He explained that his wallet, containing his debit card, and his
phone had been stolen. He said he kept his PIN stored in his phone. Whoever had stolen
these items had been able to make online transfers from F's accounts to his own. They'd
then made payments using his debit card. In total, £36,700 had been transferred from F's
account to Mr G's account and then taken from that account; all of this happened within
about an hour.
Mr G made a claim against Barclays seeking a refund of the payments made using his card.
F made a similar claim in respect of the transfers from its accounts.
In the course of those claims Mr G wrote to Barclays consenting to the transfer of any sums
recovered in respect of his claim to F's accounts. Mr K also wrote to Barclays with a copy of
Mr G's letter and requesting that any money retrieved should be paid to F's accounts.
Barclays took the view that F hadn't suffered a loss as a result of the transfers from its
accounts, since they'd been made to one of its directors. For that reason, it didn't agree to a
refund. It did, however, refund Mr G's personal account with the payments that had been
made using his card.
In the meantime, Mr G faced a disciplinary tribunal in respect of a different matter dating
back some years. The outcome was that he was struck off for financial wrongdoing. Mr K
says that Mr G didn't return the money that Barclays refunded to him and he has since left
the country. There is, Mr K says, no realistic prospect of recovering anything from him.
F referred the matter to this service. It complained about the transfers from its account and
about the way in which Barclays dealt with the refund.
The case was considered by one of our investigators.
The investigator concluded that the transfers from F's accounts were made by someone - Mr
G - who was authorised to make them. He didn't think they should be refunded.
In respect of the refund to Mr G, the investigator noted that Barclays now took the view that
Mr G had made the transfers from F's account to his own. That hadn't been the bank's view
at the time, though. It didn't however follow that the bank should now make a refund to F.
F didn't accept the investigator's findings and, through its solicitors, made further 
submissions. Amongst other things, the solicitors addressed the letters in which Mr K and Mr
G had apparently agreed that any refund should be made to F's accounts.
I considered what had happened and issued a provisional decision, indicating I thought that 
Barclays should have refunded the money to F. Ill summarise my reasons for reaching that 
conclusion. 
I thought there was persuasive evidence that, contrary to what he said, Mr G had made the 
transfers to his account. Whilst they were authorised  in the sense that he had authority to 
operate Fs accounts  I didnt consider that Mr G was within his rights to make them. There 
was, I thought, persuasive evidence that they were made in order to defraud F. Most of the 
money had come from Fs client account; whatever other authority Mr G may have had from 
F, it was inconceivable that he was entitled to transfer client money to himself. 
I thought it unlikely as well that Mr G was himself a victim of fraud. It appeared that he had 
transferred money to himself and then claimed a refund for losses he hadnt actually 
suffered. 
None of this was however a reason in itself to require Barclays to refund F for the transfers 
Mr G had made. He was, as between F and the bank, entitled to operate the account. I 
should stress too that I didnt have the benefit of Mr Gs own evidence about what happened. 
I noted however that both F and Mr G had written to Barclays to say that any refund should 
be paid to F. It was also apparent in my view that any loss here had been suffered not by Mr 
G but by F. Even if Mr Gs version of events was correct, he had suffered no loss, since the 
money taken from his account was money to which he wasnt entitled. 
I concluded that, even if the bank couldnt make a refund directly to F (because the transfer 
from Fs account was authorised), it should have kept the money secure while it clarified the 
position as between F and Mr G. Had it done so, its likely the money would have been 
returned to F. 
I also noted that F had instructed solicitors. I thought it reasonable to do so and invited the 
bank to make submissions on the recovery of legal fees. 
F broadly accepted my provisional findings. Its solicitors submitted a summary of the fees 
they had charged, which was sent to Barclays for comment. Barclays didnt however accept 
my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that the transfer Mr G made to his own account was authorised and can therefore 
understand why Barclays wouldnt refund it. And I accept as well that usual procedures 
meant any refund of the payments made from Mr Gs account couldnt be refunded directly 
to an account other than to that one. 
The circumstances here were, however, rather unusual. I think it should have been apparent 
to Barclays that Mr Gs version of events was, at the very least, open to question. What was 
never open to question though was that both Mr G and F had written to the bank to ask that 
any refund be made to F. Nor was there any question that, if no refund were made, it was F 
that would lose out, not Mr G. 
For these reasons, even if it wasnt possible to make a refund directly to F, I think Barclays 
ought to have appreciated that there was a real risk that Mr G would benefit unfairly from a 
refund. In the circumstances, it would have been good practice to ensure that funds were at least secured pending agreement between F and Mr G.    
As Ive indicated, I dont think it was unreasonable of F to instruct solicitors to act on its 
behalf. Whilst this service generally takes the view that its not necessary for the parties to 
engage solicitors, we do have power to award professional costs where appropriate. Fs 
solicitors have submitted costs of £7,162.80, including VAT, which I dont consider to be 
excessive in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
In my view Barclays should refund Fs losses of £36,700 together with interest at 8% a year 
and pay its legal costs.   
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Fs complaint in full, Barclays Bank PLC should pay F:
£36,700;
interest on that sum at 8% a year simple from 13 December 2018 until payment; and 
 £7,162.80 in respect of legal costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman