DRN-4291626
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Oplo PL Ltd (Oplo) rejected his claim against it under Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
While Mr Ms finance was originally with a different finance provider, Oplo is now responsible 
for this case. To keep things simple, Ill mainly refer to Oplo as the finance provider 
throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mr M bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2017. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Oplo, and that business is therefore liable for the misrepresentations 
of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the supplier 
misleading Mr M into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr M, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over the 
10-year term of the loan. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual 
performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Oplo (or its predecessor) initially replied accepting our investigators view of the complaint. 
However, Oplo subsequently reviewed the file and made an alternative offer of redress. it 
had the system inspected which showed that that the system hadnt been installed correctly 
and needed rectification work. It has subsequently made alternative offers and clarified its 
offer multiple times since then. My understanding of Oplos s offer includes an offer to repair 
the system, an interim payment in recognition of the losses experienced to date, a promise 
to monitor the system post repair and make an arrangement for future payments based on 
the performance of the system post repair. It also offered a payment of £500 compensation 
for the inconvenience caused and the time taken to resolve the complaint. 
Another investigator reviewed the complaint and agreed with our initial investigators view of 
the complaint. Oplo didnt agree and maintained that it felt its offer was fair way to resolve 
the complaint. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
In my provisional decision of 17 July 2023, I set out why I was minded to upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Both parties have acknowledged the provisional decision 
but didnt make any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
I think Oplo ought now to be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established 
approach, as our investigators have previously set this out for Oplo. So, I dont consider it 
necessary to set all of that out again in this decision.
Mr M says the system has not provided the benefits he was assured it would during the sale. 
As our investigator has explained, there isnt a lot of documentation available from the time 
of sale, so Ive had to decide what I think most likely happened, based on the available 
evidence. 
Mr Ms testimony has been consistent throughout this complaint. Our investigator has also 
shown Oplo that the supplier was promoting the system as self-funding on its website 
around the time of sale. So, bearing in mind that the suppliers own promotional material 
mirrors what Mr M says he was promised, I think its more likely the system was sold to him 
as self-funding. 
So, having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those 
explained by the investigator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence 
supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr M was not given clear 
information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate 
to an additional cost for him. So, I think that Oplo didnt treat Mr M fairly and he lost out 
because of what Oplo did wrong. And this means that it should put things right. Oplo has 
made several offers to try to resolve this complaint, so it looks like it accepts this. And the 
only matter left in dispute, is how to put things right for Mr M. 
Fair compensation 
Determining fair compensation is not always an exact science and it is all the more difficult in 
a case like this where solar panels have been installed at a property. Ive considered 
carefully if its fair to unwind the credit agreement, remove the solar panels (at Oplos 
expense) and give Mr M a refund of all the payments hes made (less any actual financial 
benefit gained from the installation of the solar panels). This would be the usual redress 
ordered where Im persuaded that a customer would not have purchased the system but for 
the misrepresentation.  
Ive thought about this specifically in this case given the system is not currently functioning 
as its meant to, wasnt installed correctly and in need of repair. Oplo (and its predecessor) 
have also caused Mr M significant additional inconvenience by changing its offer a few 
times. 
However, Mr M has indicated he will settle the case based on our investigators 
recommendations of alternative redress, so I dont think it is necessary to order a full unwind 
here. 
Ive also considered Oplos offer and while I appreciate its attempt to find a resolution, Im 
not satisfied its a fair way to settle the compliant. Its offer for example is only a temporary 
solution requiring further monitoring and negotiation post repair. Mr M has already waited 
almost three years for a solution since he raised his complaint  it provides him with no 
finality. I have to also bear in mind that Oplo had also changed and evolved its offer several 
times since it originally offered to settle the complaint so I can see why this would not be 
acceptable to Mr M. The offer is also not in line with our established approach to redress in 
these types of cases. I think that Mr M purchased the panels on the basis that they wouldnt cost him 
anything  because he was led to believe the financial benefits received would cover the 
cost of the panels.  As explained by our investigator, we have an established approach to 
redress in these types of cases and we think fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. The purpose of our redress 
methodology is to make sure the cost of the solar panels is cost neutral over a 10-year term. 
So, Mr M pays no more for the panels than what he would likely receive from the panels over 
the 10-year loan term.  I think our approach is a fair and reasonable approach to putting 
things right. It saves Oplo the trouble and cost of removing and disposing of the system, 
making good any damage done to Mr Ms property, while being able to charge Mr M any 
benefit he will receive over a 10-year term. Mr M is also only charged what he will likely 
receive over the 10-year term of the loan, so the system is cost-neutral to him. 
But as explained by Oplo, I think it should also repair the system in line with the inspection 
report it has submitted. Part of the redress calculation Oplo will be required to work out 
involves making assumptions about how the system will perform going forward. The 
calculation working out the benefit Mr M is likely to receive over the coming years is based 
on the system functioning as it is meant to in line with the MCS certificate, so it requires the 
system to be repaired. This will ensure the system performs as it is meant to  and the 
redress can be worked out in line with the MCS certificate now submitted. 
Putting things right 
1. So having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for Oplo to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr M from the solar 
panels over a 10-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr M is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Oplo needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr M by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, as the loan is ongoing, I require Oplo to restructure 
Mr Ms loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr M in a position where the solar panel 
system is cost neutral over a 10-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr M have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.If Mr M accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
2. Oplo should also have the system repaired in line with the inspection report 
submitted. 
3. Oplo has offered £500 compensation for the inconvenience suffered by Mr M and the 
time taken to resolve the complaint. Im satisfied that this is a fair offer and I intend to direct 
Oplo to pay £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Alternatively, if Oplo would like to offer a full unwind of the credit agreement, including 
removing the panels and making good any repairs to Mr Ms property (at Oplos expense), 
refunding everything Mr M has paid (less any actual benefit received), then it should let me 
know.
In the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision. So, for the same reasons I set out in 
my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
1. I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ms 
complaint for Oplo to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the 
known and assumed savings and income to Mr M from the solar panels over a 10-
year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and 
any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr M is paying (or has paid) more than he 
should have, then Oplo needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation 
show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation 
should be shared with Mr M by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, as the loan is ongoing, I require Oplo to 
restructure Mr Ms loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr M in a position where 
the solar panel system is cost neutral over a 10-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments 
would reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve 
done resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been 
deprived of the monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple 
interest from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr M have the following options as to 
how he would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.If Mr M accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
2. Oplo must also have the system repaired in line with the inspection report submitted. 
3. Oplo has offered £500 compensation for the inconvenience suffered by Mr M and the 
time taken to resolve the complaint. Im satisfied that this is a fair offer and I direct 
Oplo to pay £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. Oplo PL Ltd should put things right in the 
way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman