DRN-2279360
The complaint
Mr B complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
AXA didnt directly sell the policy; it was the insurer. But its taken responsibility for this sale 
so I shall refer to it as the seller in this decision  
What happened
Mr B took out a store card with AXA in 2000. At the same time he bought a PPI policy which 
wouldve helped cover the repayments on his card if he couldnt work. It also offered 
purchase and price protection.
Mr B says he didnt realise he had the policy  and wouldnt have bought it if hed been told 
about it at the time, as he had work benefits if he couldnt work for some time. He thinks he 
wasnt given a fair chance to say whether he wanted the PPI or not.
 
The adjudicator noted that AXA couldnt provide any evidence to show it gave Mr B a choice 
about buying the policy, and thought his complaint should be upheld.
 
AXA disagrees, so the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im going to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr B took out the store card and PPI by filling in an application form. However, AXA has 
been unable to supply a copy of this, so I cant be sure Mr B signed it to say he wanted the 
cover. 
Without the paperwork I also cant be certain AXA met its obligations to make sure Mr B had 
all the information he needed so he could make his decision. 
Without that, in this particular case, I must accept Mr Bs assertion that he didnt need the 
cover and wouldnt have bought it if hed known about it. 
So I think Mr B lost out as a result of what AXA did wrong.
  
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr B in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. I 
should warn Mr B that the compensation is unlikely to be significant as I understand he paid 
less than £1 in premiums in total for this insurance.
A. AXA should find out how much Mr B would have owed when he closed his account if the 
policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr B owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him. 
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr B would have owed 
when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when AXA works out what Mr B would have owed each month without PPI  Mr B 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr B 
wouldve owed AXA something on his card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D. AXA should tell Mr B what its done to work out A, B and C.
E. If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr B that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give   Mr 
B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I require AXA France IARD to pay 
compensation as described above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman