DRN-3806127
The complaint
Mr I complains about mis-information XYZ Insurance Services Ltd (XYZ) provided when 
setting up cover, under his motor insurance policy. 
Mr I is also represented by Mrs J in his complaint. 
What happened
Mr I says he agreed a policy with XYZ over the phone. He says he wasnt made aware that 
the first insurance premium would be taken in December 2021. He says he paid a deposit 
when the policy was agreed on 25 November and didnt expect more money to be taken so 
soon. 
Mr I says he told XYZ when agreeing the policy that he would be able to provide proof of four 
years no claims bonus in January 2022. In mid-December XYZ wrote to Mr I to give notice of 
cancellation. The business says that hed failed to provide the proof of no claims cover, 
which he was told must be provided within five working days. 
XYZ says Mr I was given the option to pay an additional premium to the insurer as he 
couldnt provide proof of the no claims bonus he had advised. Alternatively, the policy would 
need to be cancelled. Mr I didnt pay the additional premium so XYZ confirms the policy was 
cancelled. This also meant cancellation fees were charged. XYZ says these fees were 
confirmed to Mr I in the compliance call and in the documentation it had emailed to him.
Mr I didnt agree with XYZs position and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says Mr I didnt mention providing proof of his no 
claims bonus in either January or February 2022 during any of the calls he had listened to. 
He thought the premiums and cancellation fees were clearly explained during the initial calls. 
And this had been reaffirmed in the documentation XYZ issued. 
Mr I didnt think this outcome was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Is complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but 
I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ive listened to recordings of four calls between Mr I and XYZs agents. Three of the calls 
took place on 25 November 2011. I can see that Mr I says another call also took place on 
this date at around 10.53am. But XYZ havent produced a recording. We asked the business 
to try and locate a recording. It says it hasnt been able to. It says for this call Mr I selected 
the option for claims, which means the call was transferred to another provider and not 
recorded by XYZ. The business says it has approached the other provider, but it hasnt 
located a recording of the call either. It thinks it likely that Mr I chose the correct option, when 
he was presented with some further choices, which returned him to XYZs call handlers. 
I have listened to all the calls from 25 November 2021. There is no mention of Mr I asking to 
delay the provision of his proof of no claims into 2022. In one call Mrs J speaks to an adviser 
and enquires about paying some of the deposit in November 2021 and the rest in either 
January or February 2022. A manager is invited onto the call. But its confirmed that the 
deposit needs to be paid immediately and in full for the policy to start. Mrs J then agrees. But 
there is no mention of delaying the proof of no claims information until this time. 
Ive listened to the compliance call, which lasts around 30 minutes. This includes two pre-
recorded statements that are played. Mr I confirms that he is able to provide proof of four 
years no claims bonus. Its confirmed in the call that this is required within five working days. 
Ive seen the documentation XYZ emailed to Mr I dated 25 November 2021. There is no 
dispute that he received this information. 
Under the heading What to do now it says:
Please forward the Official Letter of your No Claims Bonus provided by your last insurer. 
(This must be an original document not a photocopy).
And:
Please Note: We value your custom so please do not risk cancellation of your policy and 
return all outstanding documents to us immediately. If you need our help with documentation 
call [contact number]. Thank you.
There is a further recording from 30 November 2021. During this call Mr I queries the 
payments that will be taken. XYZ discusses this with him and says this information was 
provided during the compliance call. There is no discussion about proof of no claims.  
I understand that Mr I and Mrs J are adamant that they discussed delaying the proof of their 
no claims bonus until 2022. But this isnt evident in the calls I have listened to. XYZ has been 
asked to search its records for any further call recordings and hasnt found any. I think its 
also clear from the compliance call and the documentation that was sent to Mr I that the 
supporting documents, which includes proof of no claims, should be sent immediately. 
In the event that Mr I and/or Mrs J had asked to delay providing their no claims proof, I think 
its very unlikely that this will have been agreed with the insurer. Mr Is policy premium was 
based on the information he gave, which included having proof of four years no claims. As 
he didnt have this proof the insurer wouldnt have been able to provide cover for the cost 
advised. This was shown to be the case when the insurer wasnt provided with proof of the 
full no claims. It would then only offer cover if Mr I paid an additional premium. 
Ive read XYZs cancellation terms that were emailed to Mr I dated 25 November 2021. The 
terms under, Fees and Charges say:
We may make the following charges to cover the administration of your insurance:
Mid Term cancellation - £45 & Clawback of Commission where applicable (up to 15% of 
annual premium)
In its complaint response XYZ says it was confirmed in the compliance call that the £45 
cancellation applies, plus retention of the loss of its commission up to 20%. This is at odds with the cancellation terms which say up to 15%. 
We asked XYZ to clarify what it had charged Mr I. It says it charged 8% loss of commission, 
which came to £133.41 in addition to the £45 cancellation charge, totalling £178.41. So, 
although the complaint response and policy terms stated different amounts, Im satisfied 
XYZ hasnt charged Mr I unfairly. 
In summary I dont think XYZ treated Mr I unfairly in the information it provided, or when 
applying cancellation fees. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve his 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman