DRN-4255862
The complaint
A company which Ill call M complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc behaved unreasonably 
when completing its banking checks.
The complaint is brought on Ms behalf by their directors, Mrs M. 
What happened
M held a business account with Barclays which they had opened in 2006. 
M told us:
Barclays had requested some Know Your Customer (KYC) information which it had 
provided in July 2022.
M received a letter from Barclays in August and September 2022, saying it needed 
more information. Mrs M responded to the bank saying that this had already been 
provided for M.
In January 2023, whilst Mrs M was away, she was notified that Ms account had been 
closed. This caused issues for the company as they were unable to receive funds or 
pay their bills.  
Mrs M spent many hours on the phone to the bank asking for the account balance to 
be returned or the account reinstated. During that time, they also couldnt access 
their bank statements to see what regular payments were payable to contact the 
providers. Theyd also had payments returned to customers which they then had to 
wait until the following month to receive and their accounting system had been linked 
to this account so fourteen years of accounting information had been lost.
Barclays had behaved unreasonably, and they wanted the bank to apologise and pay 
them compensation for the inconvenience and losses caused to the company. 
Barclays had now offered to reinstate the account, but theyd already moved their 
account elsewhere. 
Barclays told us:
It had carried out a review of Ms account and needed some information from the 
company which it requested in August 2022, but this wasnt received, so it had 
written to M again in September 2022 to re-request this. 
It had sent M several further requests for information, but as the required information 
wasnt received within the deadline it had set, it had closed Ms account on 26 
January. In doing so, it had acted in line with the terms and conditions and hadnt 
done anything wrong.  
It had offered to re-open Ms accounts once the information was received, but in 
March 2023 the company had confirmed they didnt want to do this as they had 
opened an account elsewhere. 
It had returned Ms funds initially by cheque on 6 February, however Mrs M had then 
asked for the funds to be paid directly into her personal account instead, so this had 
been actioned on 9 February. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought that Barclays had 
made M aware that it needed further information to complete its checks, and if it didnt 
receive this Ms account was at risk of closure. So she thought M had sufficient time to 
provide the information the bank required and noted that Barclays had sent requests to the 
company via text and post to make them aware of its intended actions. But the information 
still wasnt provided. She said she hadnt seen any evidence that M had contacted the bank 
in November to say they had provided all the required information and noted that Ms funds 
had been returned on 9 February to Mrs M as requested. 
M didnt agree. They said the investigator hadnt considered the impact on M by the account 
closure or that M had already provided the information the bank has requested. They also 
thought it was unreasonable that the bank hadnt spoken Mrs M directly before closing the 
account. Mrs M also thought it was unfair that the bank had restricted access to her personal 
account. So they asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Im sorry to disappoint M, but theres not much 
more that I can add to what our investigator has already said.
M says that their account was unfairly closed in January without direct contact with their 
director. However, Im not persuaded Barclays closed Ms account unfairly. Ive seen that the 
bank contacted M more than five times over a six-month period in addition to the first letter 
advising the company it was carrying out a review of Ms account, and it did so via a range of 
different methods including via text and post. I recognise that M says they didnt respond to 
these initially as they believed theyd provided what the bank required, and then contacted it 
in November to confirm this. However, even if M thought theyd provided the required 
information initially (and that there may have been a cross-over when the first chaser letter 
was received) Ive seen that further letters were sent in August, September, and November. 
So I think its reasonable to believe that this ought to have raised concerns with M that 
maybe Barclays required more than they initially provided or that there was an ongoing issue 
so they should contact the bank to check this. 
I also acknowledge that M says it contacted Barclays in November about the notice to close 
letter. However, they havent provided any evidence of this, and I havent seen any record 
from the case notes provided by the bank either. And given that Barclays were prepared to 
re-open Ms account in January, I think its likely that if M had contacted the bank, it either 
wouldnt have made the decision to close the account as it received what was required, or 
there would have been a record of what was discussed. 
M also said that it was unreasonable for Barclays to close the account before discussing this 
with Mrs M directly. But I dont agree. The account terms and conditions for Ms account 
which say Barclays can close an account after giving two months notice or immediately if 
the bank is put in the position whereby it may break a law, regulation, code, or duty. It 
doesnt say that it needs to discuss this with a particular party, and I think its worth 
reiterating here that Mrs M told us that she did receive the notifications  so Barclays did 
make her aware as Ms director that it intended to close Ms account if it didnt receive the 
information it required. And as M didnt provide Barclays with the required information it 
needed to ensure it could meet its KYC obligations, I think it was reasonable that the bank 
gave M two months notice in November 2022 that it was going to close their account. And 
given that six months had passed since Barclays had notified M that it needed further 
information, I think the bank treated M fairly. I recognise that M says that they were caused inconvenience and a financial loss by 
Barclays decision to close their account. However, as I think that it was reasonable for the 
bank to close the account as it didnt receive the required information for it to undertake its 
checks, it follows that I dont think compensation is warranted for this. I also think its worth 
noting here that Barclays closed Ms account on 26 January and issued the cheque with Ms 
funds on 6 February which was within its agreed 10-day timescale, so I also dont think it 
delayed returning Ms funds. 
I acknowledge Mrs Ms comments about her personal account. However, this complaint has 
been brought by M as a limited company, this means I cant comment about how she may 
have been personally impacted by Barclays actions within this decision. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M as I know she feels strongly about Ms complaint but based on 
what Ive seen I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong. So I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman