DRN-2096553
The complaint
Mr A complains that Stagemount Limited, trading as Quid Market, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr A took out three instalment loans with Quid Market between September 2018 
and April 2019. Loans one and two were repayable over six months and loan three 
was repayable over five months. Mr A repaid loans one and two but he didnt 
repay loan three. A summary of Mr As lending with Quid Market is as follows:
date £ amount 
borrowedno./£ amount of monthly 
repayments
at outset (rounded)date repaid
17 September
2018400 6/124 29 November
2018
230 November
2018300 6/97 26 February
2019
31 April 2019 500 5/176
Mr A says that the loans made him worse off. He wants a refund of interest.
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Quid Market 
had treated Mr A unfairly. Mr A didnt agree with the adjudicator. He said that he had a 
number of defaults and outstanding credit at the time of the loans. The adjudicator 
considered what Mr A said but didnt change his view. Mr A asked that an ombudsman 
consider his complaint, so it was passed to me.
In July 2020 I sent both parties my provisional decision in which I indicated that I intended to 
uphold Mr As complaint in part. I said:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quid Market needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr A could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Quid Market was required to establish whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan repayments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 
defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer 
should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows 
that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower 
wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
When Mr A applied for loan one, he told Quid Market that his monthly income and 
expenditure were £2,300 and £200 respectively. Quid Market carried out its own credit 
check and discovered that Mr A had credit commitments amounting to £506 per month, 
which it took into account in looking at Mr As disposable monthly income. Quid Market 
decided that Mr A could afford to make the monthly repayment of around £124 for loan one.
I dont think that Quid Market was wrong to give Mr A the first loan. Given the repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr As circumstances at the time and his history with 
the lender at that point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Quid Market to ask 
Mr A for information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything 
in the information Mr A provided or the information Quid Market shouldve been aware of, 
which meant that it would have been proportionate for it to start verifying what Mr A said.
Mr A has referred to other credit he had at this time. A prospective lenders credit check
doesnt necessarily reveal the same detail Mr A can see from his own credit report. I think
Quid Market was entitled to rely on the information it obtained from its own credit check in
this case, given the circumstances of the loan, and that it didnt treat Mr A unfairly in giving
him loan one.
I think that the position was different when Mr A applied for loan two. I say that because
before loan two, Quid Markets own credit check revealed that Mr A had four additional loans
that didnt appear in its credit check before loan one. The information suggested that all four
additional loans were short term lending. I think that was an indication that Mr A was having
problems managing his money at that point. I dont think that Quid Market had established
that Mr A was likely to be able to repay loan two in a sustainable way.
Quid Markets own analysis was that Mr A had outstanding credit commitments of £1,487 a
month before loan two. Mr A said that his monthly income at the time of loan two was£2,350. Taking into account the other monthly outgoings of £650 Mr A had declared, Mr As
monthly disposable income was £213. The monthly repayments for loan two were around
£100, which was approaching 50% of Mr As potential disposable monthly income. Bearing
in mind that loan two was for six months at the outset, there was very little room for even
quite minor unexpected expenses in the figures Quid Market relied on. On balance, I dont
think that Quid Market had established that the repayment of loan two was sustainable for
Mr A.
Mr A took out loan three just over a month after he repaid loan two. Whilst Quid Markets
credit check revealed fewer credit commitments at the time of loan three, I dont think that it
established that Mr As circumstances had improved such that Quid Market should have lent
to him again.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Quid Market should have given Mr A loan
two or the subsequent loan.
To put things right, I intend to direct Quid Market to:
refund all interest and charges Mr A paid on loans two and three;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges that make up the outstanding balance on loan 3;
it can deduct from the refund above any capital sum still due in relation to loan three
and pay Mr A the balance, if any. If there remains an outstanding capital balance
owed to Quid Market in relation to loan 3, it should agree an affordable repayment
plan with Mr A;
remove any negative information about loans two and three from Mr As credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quid Market to take off tax from this interest.             
Quid Market must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for 
one.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence. Mr A agreed with my 
provisional decision and both he and Quid Market said that they had nothing further to add.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr A nor Quid Market have provided anything further, I see no reason to depart 
from my earlier conclusions. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont 
think that Quid Market should have given Mr A loans two and three. 
Putting things right
To put things right, I now direct Stagemount Limited, trading as Quid Market to:refund all interest and charges Mr A paid on loans two and three;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges that make up the outstanding balance on loan 3;
it can deduct from the refund above any capital sum still due in relation to loan three
and pay Mr A the balance, if any. If there remains an outstanding capital balance
owed to Quid Market in relation to loan 3, it should agree an affordable repayment
plan with Mr A;
remove any negative information about loans two and three from Mr As credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quid Market to take off tax from this interest.             
Quid Market must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint. I now require Stagemount Limited, trading 
as Quid Market to take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman