DRN-3819238
The complaint
Ms J complains about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited), declining a claim 
under her buildings insurance policy for damage to her property caused by bad weather. 
References to Accredited include their agents who administer the policy and assess claims. 
What happened
In January 2022, Ms J noticed some slates on her roof had moved, causing damage to the 
valley over her front door. She contacted a roofer, who provided an estimate of £1,900 to 
repair the damage. 
Ms J also contacted Accredited to report the damage and lodge a claim. Accredited 
appointed a firm (C) to inspect the damage and assess the claim. A surveyor inspected the 
property but concluded the bad weather at the time of the incident had merely highlighted a 
pre-existing issue relating to wear and tear of the nail fittings to the tiles and the failure of a 
previous repair. The surveyor also noted signs of previous temporary repairs to the roof with 
tape visible on tiles. The surveyor concluded the damage wasnt caused by a one-off storm 
event (which would be covered under the policy) but by deterioration over a prolonged 
period in the period leading up to the incident. 
Based on the surveyors findings and conclusions, Accredited declined the claim. They said 
an assessment concluded the damage to the property didnt fall within the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Accredited also drew attention to the potential for asbestos to be 
present in many buildings and that Ms J shouldnt proceed with any repair work that might 
cause hazardous asbestos fibre release.
Ms J then complained to this service. She didnt think Accredited had fairly declined her 
claim because the damage didnt fall within the policy terms and conditions (but hadnt given 
any more details). She also felt mention of the potential presence of asbestos was irrelevant, 
as shed had her property checked for the presence of asbestos (when applying for a 
mortgage) and none was present. She wanted Accredited to pay her claim.
As Ms J had complained to this service before complaining to Accredited, we asked 
Accredited to consider the issues raised by Ms J as a complaint. But they didnt uphold the 
complaint. They referred to the surveyors findings and noted an exclusion in the policy 
terms and conditions that meant damage due to gradual causes, including deterioration or 
wear and tear, wasnt covered. While they accepted the weather at the time of the incident 
was poor, they thought the roof was already in a poor condition and the storm merely 
highlighted a pre-existing problem.
Our investigator then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it, concluding Accredited 
didnt need to take any action. She thought there had been storm conditions at the time of 
the incident and the damage to the roof was consistent with storm damage. On the issue of 
whether the damage was due to the storm, or to pre-existing issues, she thought the 
surveyors report together with the photographs showed the roof was already in poor 
condition before the storm and that the storm highlighted existing issues. So, Accredited 
acted reasonably (based on the surveyors report) in declining the claim.
Ms J disagreed with our investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In doing so, she raised several points. 
First, the photographs taken by the surveyor (a month after the incident) showed more 
damage than shed originally reported. During this time, the area had been affected by 
Storms Dudley and Eunice. She also said shed had work carried out on the roof during her 
time at the property  but not the area affected in the incident. Shed also had a surveyor 
report in 2017 (at the time she took out a mortgage on the property) which didnt reveal any 
maintenance issues. She also thought the property was in good condition, of solid 
construction. She also thought the presence of tape (as the surveyor had reported) didnt 
rule out storm damage. She also questioned the mention of potential asbestos by 
Accredited, saying her property was built before asbestos was introduced. She was also 
concerned at the status and role of the surveyor from C that inspected the property (she 
thought they could have been a loss adjuster, rather than surveyor). Which she thought may 
have affected their view of the damage and its cause.
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to say Ive considered carefully what Ms J has told us about her circumstances 
and the health issues she has had. Ive borne these in mind when considering the issues in 
this complaint. My role here is to decide whether Accredited has acted fairly towards Ms J.
The main issue in Ms Js complaint is that Accredited unfairly declined her claim, on the 
grounds that while there was bad weather at the time of the incident, they werent the main 
cause of the damage. Rather, it was due to pre-existing issues with the roof recorded in the 
surveyor. As such the bad weather only highlighted existing issues. Ms J doesnt agree, 
saying the damage was caused by the storm. She says the roof wasnt in poor condition and 
shed maintained the property in good order over the time shed lived. She also disagrees 
with the surveyors findings and conclusions.
One aspect of Ms Js complaint is the comment from Accredited about the potential for 
asbestos to be present and Ms J shouldnt proceed with any repair work that might cause 
hazardous asbestos fibre release. Ms J says mention of the potential presence of asbestos 
is irrelevant, as shed had her property checked for asbestos and none was present. 
Thinking about this point, I dont its relevant to the main issue of the complaint. I say that 
because the wording of the reference to asbestos indicates the potential presence of 
asbestos (it doesnt specifically say it is present in Ms Js property). This suggests its a 
standard precautionary reference to the potential presence of asbestos. And given what Ive 
seen, the point about asbestos didnt affect the decline of the claim and the reasons given by 
Accredited for the decline. So, I havent considered this issue any further.
Coming back to the main issue, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from pre-
existing issues, there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?On the first question, the policy includes the following definition of Storm:
  rainstorm, windstorm, hurricane, tornado, tempest, cyclins and typhoon including 
ensuing damage caused by water that backs up from a sewer or drain as a direct 
result thereof, but excluding flood and earthquake.
The case notes provided by Accredited includes data from a recognised weather service for 
the period around the incident. For the date Ms J noticed the damage, the data records a 
maximum gust of 55mph and describes the conditions Storm force gusts around 12.00. 
This data from the weather firm this service uses also indicate storm conditions at the time of 
the incident. So, Ive concluded there were storm conditions present around the date of the 
incident. 
On the second question, the photographs Ive seen indicate tiles have moved/slipped as 
described by Ms J, with consequent gaps in the tiles covering the roof. Slipping/moving tiles 
(and consequent damage that results from this, are types of damage wed expect in storm 
conditions, particularly high winds. So, Ive concluded the damage is consistent with that a 
storm typically causes.
The third question is therefore the key issue, where Ms J and Accredited disagree. Ive 
considered both views carefully, together with the report from Accrediteds surveyor and the 
opinion of Ms J and the photographs taken of the property and the roof. Ive also considered 
the further representations made by Ms J in response to Accrediteds final response (and the 
points shes made about the surveyors findings and conclusions). Ive also taken account of 
Ms Js response to our investigators view. Taking all these points into account, Ive 
concluded Accredited acted fairly in declining Ms Js claim. I know this will be disappointing 
to Ms J, so Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as 
Accredited have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at 
the available information and evidence, I think Accredited have done so in the specific 
circumstances of this case, so Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, Accredited refer to the following policy exclusion, in the General 
Exceptions Which Apply to the Wole of Your Policy section:
7. Any claim resulting from:

Gradual causes including deterioration or wear and tear;

Accredited also refer to their surveyors report, which states:
I inspected internally to the loft cupboard to see the roof was original ie over 100 
years I inspected externally to find evidence of issues with the slated roof of the 
turret plus previous tape type repairs to the slates. The damage evident appeared 
due to wear and tear to the nail fixings and the failure of previous repairs.But Ive also considered the specific points raised by Ms J about the surveyors report, with 
which she disagrees. As set out about, the surveyors report noted pre-existing issue relating 
to the nail fittings to the tiles and the failure of a previous repair. Ms J says she hasnt had 
any repairs carried out (to the affected part of the roof) in the 40 years shes lived at the 
property. The surveyors report also states:
The insured was adamant the tape repairs had not been carried out in the 40 years she 
had lived at the property, It was evident in my opinion these repairs were fairly recent. 
Nail erosion is [will] be evident due to the age and type of roof covering and fixing. Wear 
and tear is the proximate [underlying] cause of the damage.
While I dont doubt what Ms J has said, Im more persuaded by the surveyors conclusions. 
And if repairs (or any other maintenance work) hadnt been carried out in 40 years (to a roof 
that the surveyor thought dated back over 100 years, then I think its likely there will have 
been some wear and tear, if not deterioration. 
Ms J also says the roof suffered further deterioration between the date of the incident and 
the surveyors visit (some weeks later). And that the tiles were in place before the storm and 
after the storm they had slipped. So, the storm caused the damage. She also says the 
presence of tape doesnt rule out storm damage. However, I dont think this changes the 
point thats key here  its not disputed the tiles slipped during the storm. Rather, its whether 
there was a pre-existing issue of deterioration or wear and tear. Which is what Ive 
considered above.
Ms J also points to a surveyor report from her mortgage provider in 2017 when she took out 
a mortgage. From what Ms J had said and provided, this was valuation report (which would 
have been required for the mortgage provider to decide whether to offer a mortgage). It 
wouldnt have been a full structural survey. While it didnt identify any matters of general 
maintenance requiring attention in due course, I dont think it provides clear, specific 
evidence of the condition of the roof (including the affected area).
Finally, Ms J raised the issue of the status of the surveyor, thinking they may have been a 
loss adjuster. Shes also raised concerns at the way the visit and inspection were conducted. 
I appreciate Ms J has described her experience of the visit, but Ive seen anything from 
Accredited on this point. And not being present, its not something I can comment on. On the 
point about the status of the individual who visited, this isnt something Ive specifically 
considered. Rather Ive considered the reports findings and conclusions produced by C 
(who act as agents for Accredited in assessing claims) and its findings, together with the 
supporting evidence (such as photographs). As Ive concluded above, Im persuaded it does 
support, on balance, the presence of pre-existing issues with the roof.
Based on these points, then Ive concluded on balance that Accredited have shown enough 
that theyve fairly applied the exclusion for deterioration and wear and tear to decline the 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Ms Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman