DRN-3793851
The complaint
Mr S has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. He is also dissatisfied with the way that his complaint was originally 
processed.
What happened
Mr S says he first contacted HSBC around 2017/18. At that time HSBC responded saying 
that it had been unable to identify any PPI held by Mr S. However, on 15 July 2021 HSBC 
wrote to Mr S to explain that an earlier error had occurred as it had not originally contacted 
the insurer for information. Having now done so, it had identified that he had in fact taken out 
mortgage PPI in 1996. Due to its error, HSBC gave Mr S two months from the date of its 
letter to make a formal complaint. 
Mr S then made his complaint to HSBC. However, he then brought his complaint to this 
service when he didnt receive a timely response.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
PPI mis-selling
Mr S says he wants to know what consultations our adjudicator had with HSBC. There was 
no consultation as such. Upon receiving the complaint, the adjudicator approached HSBC to 
provide any evidence it had relating to the PPI policy and the sale. HSBC forwarded the 
information that it had received from the insurer, which was the policy start and end dates, 
the premium amounts and the monthly premium cost.
HSBC no longer has any paperwork from the sale, which is also not surprising given how 
long ago it took place. However, that does make it more difficult to investigate the complaint. 
In reaching my decision I have looked at the evidence we do have, together with what I 
consider is most likely to have happened.
Mr S says he was led to believe that the PPI was a condition of getting the mortgage agreed 
and that it formed part of a package with the mortgage. I have no doubt that Mr S has 
provided his genuine recollection of events. However, the sale was a long time ago and so it 
wouldnt be surprising if his memory has faded somewhat.
From what we know of HSBCs sales processes at the time, the PPI would normally have 
been presented as optional and I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr S has said. However, based on the available evidence I 
am unable to conclude that he wasnt given a choice about buying the PPI. I consider it more 
likely than not that he probably decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he 
no longer remembers doing so.
HSBC advised Mr S to buy the PPI. That means that, in recommending it to him, it needed to 
ensure that the policy met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ss circumstances at the 
time, the policy was suitable for him.
Mr S would have received some sick pay from his employer. But the policy would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than he would have received full pay 
for. Mr S says he had some savings. But having the PPI would have allowed him to retain 
any savings or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. 
So it seems to me that he had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it. 
HSBC also needed to provide sufficient information for Mr S to be able to make an informed 
choice about whether or not the policy was right for him. Its possible that HSBC didnt 
provide as much information about the PPI as it should have, particularly about the things 
that it didnt cover. But Mr S wasnt affected by any of those things. For example, he didnt 
have a pre-existing medical condition that might have been excluded under the policy. As I 
consider that Mr S had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that further 
information would have caused him to change his mind. So he is no worse off as a result of 
anything HSBC may have done wrong, so there is nothing that HSBC needs to do to put 
things right.
Processing of the complaint
As already mentioned, HSBC didnt originally check with the insurer to see if they had 
information about any policies Mr S may have held. So, based on the information it held on 
its own systems, it incorrectly advised Mr S that there was no record of him having had PPI. 
However, later realising its error, it then did contact the insurer in 2021 and subsequently 
provided the correct information to Mr S. 
Mr S believes the outcome of his complaint would have been different if HSBC had 
contacted the insurer back in 2017/18. Im afraid I disagree with that. We know that HSBC 
didnt hold any information about Mr Ss policy at that time because its system searches 
didnt reveal any. The insurer only holds basic information about the policy itself and would 
not have any information about the sale. So there would have been no more evidence to go 
on in 2017/18 to conclude that the policy had been mis-sold. As such, Mr S has not been 
disadvantaged because of the delay in letting him know he did have a PPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman