DRN-3817220
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, blocked and then closed his 
bank account.
What happened
Mr M had an account with Halifax. In October 2020, Halifax decided to close Mr Ms account. 
It said it had done so following a recent risk assessment of Mr Ms account  and that Mr Ms 
accounts were deemed to be outside of the banks appetite. At the same time, it placed a 
block on the account to stop all transactions and told Mr M he needed to visit his local 
branch if he wanted to access the remaining funds.
Mr M think Halifax acted unfairly in closing the account. He says he hasnt been given 
access to the remaining funds in the account. Hes also unhappy that Halifax hasnt told him 
the specific concerns that led it to close his account. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. Based on what 
wed seen, Mr M lost use of the account immediately  the investigator thought Mr M should 
have been given two months notice. The investigator also thought Halifax had incorrectly 
prevented Mr M from withdrawing the remaining funds. To put things right, he thought 
Halifax should pay Mr M £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this caused, and 
simple interest at 8% a year to compensate Mr M for the period between the final withdrawal 
of funds from the account and the point at which we informed Mr M that he was able to 
withdraw the funds.
Halifax agreed with our investigator. Mr M, while thanking the investigator for his 
investigation, has asked for an ombudsman to look into the matter further. In particular, hes 
mentioned the psychological pain he was exposed to during difficult times of his life, and the 
long time hed been a customer of Halifax. The complaint has therefore been referred to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions that applied to Mr Ms account said that the agreement would 
continue until you or we cancel or end it. In some circumstances, Halifax could close the 
account immediately. In all other cases, it needs to give two months notice in writing.
In this case, Halifax says it gave Mr M 65 days notice. That said, I note that at the same 
time it did this it also placed restrictions on the account. Mr M says he first learned there was 
an issue with the account after an attempted payment was declined. In effect, he lost the 
ability to use the account immediately.
Where Halifax closes an account it doesnt need to give Mr M reasons. But looking at 
everything, while Im satisfied Halifax could close Mr Ms account, Im not persuaded it had 
cause to close the account immediately. I think it should have allowed Mr M the two months 
to rearrange his affairs.
Turning to Mr Ms attempts to access the remaining funds in the account, I note that Mr M 
withdrew £154.01 in cash on 7 December 2020  and transferred a further £2,237.86 to an 
account he held with another business. But £1,013.29 remained in the account. Mr M says 
he was told he could only withdraw benefits and wages that had been paid to the account 
after it had been blocked.
Weve asked Halifax for its comments. It says it cant speculate as to why the remaining 
funds were not released in December. I also note that Mr M later contacted Halifax on 23 
December 2020, saying he still didnt have access to his money. Finally, I note that the 
amount Mr M withdrew in December 2020 was equal to the wage payments hed received 
following the decision to close the account.
Mr M has provided a plausible and persuasive account of what has happened. So I find it 
likely that he was told that he could only withdraw his salary and not the remaining balance  
and based on what Halifax has told us this was incorrect. If things had happened as they 
should have done Mr M would have had access to these funds sooner.
Ive therefore gone on to consider what Halifax needs to do to put things right.
Where I award compensation for distress and inconvenience, this isnt intended to punish 
the business but to reflect the impact of Halifaxs actions.
Ive concluded that Halifax was able to close Mr Ms account  but should have given him 
more notice. As a result Mr M says hes missed payments, which has affected his credit 
record  and also experience inconvenience sorting out this all out. 
It also appears Mr M was denied access to the remaining balance on the account. Mr M has 
explained that around this time he urgently needed funds to visit a relative in hospital 
overseas. He also says that when his relative passed away, he needed to borrow money 
from family and friends to sort things out  he says hed hoped to borrow money from Halifax 
instead.
I have every sympathy for Mr M, and dont doubt this was a very difficult time. But Ive found 
that Halifax were entitled to close the account  so its likely some of what happened was 
unavoidable. And while I acknowledge what Mr M has said about needing to borrow money, 
it appears the amount he ultimately needed to borrow was significantly greater than the 
amount that was left in his account. So even if things had happened as they should have 
done, I think its likely Mr M would have ended up in a broadly similar position. For these 
reasons, Im not persuaded to award more for the distress and inconvenience this caused 
than the £300 recommended by the investigator. I do think Mr M was kept out of the money, 
so I agree that Halifax should pay Mr M simple interest at 8% a year to compensate him for 
the time he was deprived of the funds. I make no further award.
Putting things right
Halifax should:
Pay Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Pay simple interest (the rate is 8% a year) on the £1,013.29 from 7 December 2020 
(when Mr M tried to withdraw the funds) until 15 August 2022 (when we told Mr M he 
could withdraw the funds)If Halifax considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman