DRN-1666908
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) overcharged him for 
damage to a car he returned at the end of a finance agreement.
What happened
Mr Js agreement came to an end in June 2019 and his car was collected by an agent acting 
for VFS. The agent carried out an inspection and identified 14 areas of damage and in 
August VFS sent Mr J a bill for £1,300.24 including VAT. Mr J challenged this and VFS 
agreed that some of the damage was due to fair wear and tear. It reduced the sum due to £ 
372.88. 
Mr J remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by 
on e of our investigators. He explained that the guidance for what constitutes fair wear and 
tear is set down by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). He 
reviewed the inspectors report and the photographs and concluded that several items for 
which VFS had raised its second charge were fair wear and tear.
He thought the following were chargeable items of damage:
The broken door mirror casing 
Multiple scratches to the right hand rear door, with one being over 25mm, 
The scratch to the left hand front door sill and scratches to the right hand rear door 
sill.
 
He didnt think the photographs showed the damage to the wheels went beyond fair wear 
and tear. He concluded that he thought VFS was entitled to charge Mr J £243.28 for damage 
to the car. 
VFS didnt agree and said that the photograph of the front right wheel showed damage 
around most of it. Our investigator reviewed the report again and accepted VFSs argument. 
Mr J didnt agree and said that no account had been taken of the age of the car. He said he 
was prepared to pay what he had originally offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The contract signed by Mr J states: You will be responsible for any damage to or 
deterioration of the Vehicle which is in excess of fair wear and tear commensurate with the 
age and mileage of the vehicle. As the investigator has said VFS, along with other car 
finance companies, rely on the BVRLA guidelines when identifying damage that goes 
beyond fair wear and tear.I can see from the report there was quite a lot of minor damage which one would expect for 
a car of this age. No charges have been made for these. However there are some items 
which are damaged beyond what one would expect from fair wear and tear. Mr J recognises 
that applies to the wing mirror. However, I think the investigator has reached a fair 
conclusion as to the chargeable damage. In particular the disputed wheel is clearly very 
marked to an extent that goes beyond fair wear and tear.
Putting things right
Therefore, I consider Mr J is responsible for those damages and VFS is entitled to impose a 
reduced charge.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to reduce the charge to £286.48 inclusive of VAT.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman