DRN-2883019
The complaint
Mr G complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) rejecting his claim for
damage to his building following storms in early 2020. He wants RSA to settle his claim in
full.  
What happened
Mr G holds buildings insurance with RSA. In April 2020, he noticed that the upper part of his
external wall was bulging and appeared unsafe. He considered that this damage had been
caused by the storms which had occurred in early 2020.
Mr G contacted RSA to report the damage, and also engaged a contractor to begin repairs.
RSA sent a surveyor to look at the property, by which time the contractor had erected
scaffolding and begun repairs.
The surveyor formed the view that the damage was caused not primarily by the storms, but
by poor or faulty design, workmanship or materials. Such damage was excluded under the
policy.
RSA, relying on this opinion, declined Mr Gs claim.
Mr G was not happy with this and engaged his own structural engineer to give an opinion on
the cause of the damage. The structural engineer commented that the property was of
standard design for its age and that there was no evidence of faulty design or other distress
to the building. He considered that the damage was likely caused by storm.
RSA considered this report but ultimately rejected it, stating that the report was not specific
enough as to how the storm had caused the damage. RSA maintained its decision to reject
the claim.
Mr G was unhappy and contacted us.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties.
Over the course of the investigation a further opinion has been provided, by Mr Gs
contractors, explaining how the damage was caused. It explained that bricks were blown
loose at the top of the wall and fell into the cavity between the inner and outer walls. This
then caused the outer wall to bulge.
RSA considered the evidence again and accepted that Mr Gs property is of a standard 
design. It accepted that it cannot demonstrate that the building design, workmanship or 
materials were deficient and so it accepts that the claim is not excluded.
RSA then asserted that Mr G had made a material misrepresentation when buying his policy 
and that this misrepresentation changed the terms he was offered.
RSA states that had it known that Mr Gs property had a flat roof, covered with felt onto
timber then it would have applied a loading to Mr Gs premium.
RSA states that it is therefore fair for RSA to now make a proportionate reduction in its offer
of settlement to Mr G.
Mr G is not happy with this proposal and has asked for a formal decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I previously issued a provisional decision in relation to this matter. In that view I explained 
that I had made further enquiries of RSA about the information provided by Mr G, and how 
RSA contended that Mr G had made a qualifying misrepresentation. 
In my provisional decision I explained that RSA had not provided evidence in response to my 
queries, and that RSA had not demonstrated the question which was asked of Mr G, nor 
shown his reply. 
Both parties have now responded to my provisional decision. 
Mr G has said that he has nothing to add to his previous submissions.  
RSA has responded, providing an image of a message which it states would have appeared 
to Mr G if he had answered that his home was of non-standard construction materials. This 
would have directed Mr G to phone in to discuss his cover needs. RSA has not been able to 
demonstrate the precise question which Mr G answered, and his answer.
I queried why the statement of fact sent to Mr G included in its assumptions asphalt as a 
standard roof material, when asphalt was not included as a standard roof material in the 
question RSA says was asked of Mr G. RSA has not addressed this in its response.
RSA has provided its explanation of the difference between asphalt and felt on timber. RSA 
states that they are two construction types made up of similar materials however, there is a 
difference in life expectancy
It describes asphalt as bitumen is a sticky black, highly viscous liquid or semi-solid form of 
petroleum. RSA states that asphalt is classed as a pitch. 
In relation to felt on timber, RSA describes this as three layers of felt bonded together with a 
bitumen adhesive, poured on hot, and then finished with stone chippings. 
RSA notes that a felted roof does not represent an increased risk if in good condition, 
although they have a limited life.
RSA therefore feels that Mr G misrepresented his risk when applying. 
I have considered the additional information provided by RSA, and I remain of the view that it 
has not been demonstrated to me that Mr G made a qualifying misrepresentation. 
RSA has not demonstrated the question asked of Mr G, with any certainty. Similarly, I have 
not seen evidence of Mr Gs response, beyond what RSA say their system would have 
recorded if particular answers were given. I therefore am not satisfied that Mr G gave an inaccurate answer when applying. 
Beyond this, the documentation which was subsequently sent to Mr G included a list of the 
information given to us and the assumptions we have made about [Mr G]. This included the 
sentence Your home is built from brick or stone and roofed with slate, tiles, concrete or 
asphalt.
Mr G did not respond to these assumptions to make a correction so, by not responding, 
represented that his home was roofed with slate, tiles, concrete or asphalt.
His roof is clearly not made from slate, tiles or concrete, so I am satisfied that he 
represented that his roof was made from asphalt. 
This has subsequently been demonstrated to be inaccurate, as RSA defines Mr Gs roof as 
felt on timber, but I have not seen evidence that there is a material difference between 
asphalt and felt on timber to render this a qualifying misrepresentation. RSA has 
acknowledged that the two surfaces are made from similar materials, and have a bitumen 
upper surface. RSA has also acknowledged that there is no increased risk of a felt on timber 
roof, if in good condition.
I have not seen any evidence from RSA to show that Mr Gs roof was old, or in a poor 
condition, or that questions of the age or condition of the roof were asked at policy inception. 
I therefore do not consider that RSA has demonstrated that there was a material difference 
between the material used for Mr Gs roof and the material he represented that it was made 
from. 
I also consider that the distinction between these two products is sufficiently fine to make it 
unreasonable to expect a lay consumer to be able to tell the difference. If RSA considered 
that the distinction between these two surfaces was important then RSA would need to 
demonstrate that it had taken adequate steps to obtain accurate information. I do not think it 
has done so.
Overall, I do not think RSA has demonstrated that it would be fair to proportionately reduce 
Mr Gs settlement on the basis of an unclear misrepresentation, which has not been shown 
to make a substantive difference to RSAs decision to offer cover. 
I therefore uphold Mr Gs complaint and I adopt my provisional decision, as supplemented by 
this decision, as my final decision.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right I think that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc ought to:
Settle Mr Gs buildings claim in full, without proportionate reduction;
Pay interest on the settlement sum, at the rate of 8% per annum, from the date when 
Mr G paid his contractor up until settlement of this decision; and
To pay to Mr G £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:  Settle Mr Gs buildings claim in full, without proportionate reduction;
Pay interest on the settlement sum, at the rate of 8% per annum, from the date when 
Mr G paid his contractor up until settlement of this decision; and
To pay to Mr G £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman