DRN-3283242
The complaint
Miss G complains about delays and problems she experienced when transferring money 
from her Santander UK Plc account. Miss G also complains that Santander provided unclear 
information about the maximum amount she could transfer in a 24 hour period. 
What happened
On 14 March 2021 Miss G transferred funds online to a family member. Miss H has 
explained she needed to transfer a large sum for a house purchase. Miss G initially 
transferred £5,000 online then called Santander and a further £50,000 was transferred for 
her. Both transfers were completed as Faster Payments. 
On 15 March 2021 Miss G visited a branch to carry out further transfers. But the branch visit 
took around an hour and Miss G had to speak with Santanders fraud team to release the 
Faster Payments. 
Miss G complained about her experiences and Santander issued a final response on 17 
March 2021. Santander advised the Faster Payment limit of £100,000 related to transfers 
made in a 24 hour rolling period. Santander also its systems picked up Miss Gs transfer for 
further checks. The process took around half an hour before it was released. 
Miss G was later told a further £50,000 transfer couldnt be completed without a fee because 
of the £100,000 daily Faster Payment limit. But Santander went on to provide information 
about the timing of Faster Payments and how that impacts a the daily limit. 
Santander responded to Miss Gs complaint on 17 March 2021 and confirmed the Faster 
Payment limit of £100,000 referred to a rolling 24 hour period. Santander also said the 
payment on 15 March 2021 was legitimately held for checks. Santander offered Miss G £70 
to resolve her complaint. 
Miss G referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Santander had dealt with Miss Gs case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Miss G asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Miss G felt the process of transferring funds shouldve been smoother and that 
Santander gave unclear and confusing information about how the process works. Miss G 
has explained it took around an hour in branch for the transfer to be sent and has pointed 
out she tried to anticipate fraud concerns Santander mayve had. 
I dont doubt that Miss G found the process somewhat longwinded. Miss G was transferring 
a substantial sum. That mean Santander had to follow certain processes. And whilst I know 
Miss G gave branch staff information about the transfer that it was entirely genuine, the fraud 
prevention systems highlighted it as unusual. So further checks were needed before it could 
be released. The process took about half an hour and whilst I agree there was as degree of 
inconvenience caused to Miss G, I dont think the time taken was unreasonable. 
Miss G has told us she believes the guidance provided about the daily Faster Payment limits 
was confusing and unclear. Miss G says the website has now been updated to provide 
clearer guidance about whether the transfer limit related to the specific date or a 24 hour 
rolling period. Im pleased the information is now clearer. And I agree with Miss G that some 
confusion was most likely caused when staff didnt immediately know which was correct. But 
the correct approach was clarified and I can see the final response confirms the daily limit 
relates to a rolling 24 hour period. So whilst there was some confusion it was cleared up in a 
reasonable timeframe. 
Santander offered Miss G £70 to resolve her complaint. Ive considered everything Miss G 
has told us about how the issues raised have affected her. Im satisfied £70 fairly reflects the 
impact of the issues raised on Miss G. As Im satisfied Santander has made an offer that is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint because Santander has already made 
an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman