DRN-4167676
The complaint
Mrs L complains about QIC Europe Ltds handling of her home insurance (buildings) claim.
QIC is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As QIC has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to QIC includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In mid-2022, Mrs L made a claim under her home insurance policy with QIC after her 
property was damaged by wildfire. The fire destroyed several outbuildings and there was 
severe damage to her garden. 
QIC offered Mrs L a cash settlement, based on a scope of works completed by its surveyor. 
It shared the scope of works with Mrs L but wouldnt agree to share a breakdown of claims 
costs with her.
  
Mrs L declined the cash settlement offer. She didnt think it was enough to cover the cost of 
local tradesmen or materials. She raised several queries about what was included in the 
scope of works and the policy limits.
Mrs L then made a formal complaint about the handling of her claim. She felt QICs 
communication with her was inadequate. She thought the scope of works was unclear. She 
said it wasnt sufficient to support QICs cash settlement offer and allow transparency for her 
to instruct contractors and claim back VAT. She also complained that QIC appeared to have 
incorrectly included the removal of trees and plants in the £2,500 policy limit for loss or 
damage to plants, trees, flowers and shrubs.
QIC said it used industry wide software to calculate the cost of repair using independently 
researched labour and materials costs. It said it doesnt provide a breakdown of costs as this 
is commercially sensitive information. However, if Mrs L was to present the scope to a 
contractor, they would be able to ascertain what was included and provide her with their own 
quote. 
QIC said the scope of works included the cost of a skip for the removal of the debris. 
Therefore, the debris costs had been added in addition to the £2,500 policy limit.
Mrs L remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her concerns.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 May 2023 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mrs Ls complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Removal of garden debris
The policy terms say:
Following a successful claim for loss or damage under Section 1  Buildings, we will pay:
a. The cost to remove debris from the site or prop up parts of the buildings;
And plants, trees, flowers and shrubs not in moveable pots or containers is included in 
QICs definition of buildings.
As Mrs Ls claim was successful, Im satisfied that QIC is required to pay the cost of 
removing debris from the site. This would include trees, plants and hedges damaged by the 
fire. 
However, Mrs L says the cost of clearing and removing trees and hedges that were 
destroyed in the fire arent sufficiently accounted for in QICs scope of works. Shes queried 
the £2,500 policy limit to remove, supply and install replacement conifer trees on the 
scope. Mrs L says there will be a substantial cost for removing dead trees and hedges, 
disposal and ground levelling, which would probably involve a digger and skip hire. Mrs L 
says these shouldnt be included in the £2,500 policy limit as they are clear-up costs and not 
reinstatement works.
QIC has given conflicting information regarding the inclusion of removing garden debris in 
the £2,500 policy limit. 
A letter from the surveyor dated 7 October 2022 says: I can confirm that the policy limit for 
Trees and plants includes the removal of the item(s).
However, QICs final response letter dated 10 November 2022 says: I am also of the 
opinion that the costs of debris removal and the policy limit for the trees are two separate 
entries on the scope. This letter also refers to a cost for a skip, which it seems to imply is for 
the garden debris.
Mrs L has pointed out that the surveyor said a skip had been added for removal of buildings 
debris. I can see this is what he said in a message to Mrs L on 27 September 2022. This 
seems to suggest the skip was for debris from the destroyed outbuildings.
When Mrs L queried if QIC would pay for a digger hire on 28 September, QIC said: I wont 
be paying for digger hire as this is not included in the scope of works.
So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think QIC has made any provision for the cost of 
clearing garden debris in the scope of works, beyond any cost that might fall into the £2,500 
policy limit. 
The policy terms say:
The amounts shown below are the most we will pay for the following items for any loss or 
damage which happens at your property
ii Plants, trees, flowers and shrubs not in movable pots or containers  up to £2,500
Given the above, Im not persuaded that it was fair for QIC to have included the removal of 
garden debris in the £2,500 limit. This limit only seems to apply to the cost of replacing the 
lost or damaged items. If QICs intention was to include the removal of these items within the 
policy limit, I dont think its made this clear in the policy terms.  Where policy terms are 
ambiguous or unclear, wed say its fair for them to be interpreted in the favour of the 
consumer. So, QIC should include the full cost of removing garden debris in the scope of 
works.Cash settlement offer
The terms of the policy say:
When settling your claim, if we decide that we can offer rebuilding work, repairs or 
replacements, we will ask you to choose one of the following options.
a. We will choose a contractor (our preferred contractor) and instruct them to carry out 
the rebuilding work, repairs or replacements.
b. We will pay you a cash settlement for the same amount it would have cost us to use 
our preferred contractor.
If we cannot offer rebuilding work, repairs or replacements (as defined by us) through our 
preferred contractor, we will pay you:
a. fair and reasonable costs to have the work carried out by your chosen supplier; or
b. the amount by which the buildings have gone down in value as a result of the 
damage; whichever is lower.
In a message sent on 5 October 2022 QIC told Mrs L: The cash settlement is what it would 
cost us to get the job done and this is what is clearly stated in your policy wording
However, QIC says it offered Mrs L a cash settlement because it was unable to instruct a 
contractor due to the construction of the outbuildings. So, it appears to have been QICs 
decision to offer a cash settlement, rather than it being Mrs Ls choice. This means that QIC 
isnt entitled to limit its cash settlement to the amount it would have cost it to use its own 
contractors to carry out the work.
QIC says it used industry wide software to calculate the cost of repair using independently 
researched labour and materials costs. It says its contractor has confirmed that works can 
be completed to this value. However, its unclear if the estimate is based on the likely cost to 
QIC if it was to use its network of approved contractors or if its based on the market rate Mrs 
L might pay for engaging her own contractors. 
The rates an insurer pays its approved contractors tend to be below market rates. If the cash 
settlement has been calculated based on the cost to QIC, rather than the market rate, its 
unlikely to be sufficient to indemnify Mrs L for her loss. 
QIC says it is willing to discuss quotes Mrs L provided in January 2023 after they were 
passed on to it by our investigator. However, it didnt previously suggest Mrs L obtain her 
own quotes or indicate that it would be willing to consider them. 
The quotes Mrs L has obtained dont appear to cover the whole scope of works. So, I think 
QIC should make a revised settlement offer once Mrs L has had the opportunity to obtain 
further quotes to demonstrate what it would cost her to complete the reinstatement works. 
The cash settlement should be enough to cover fair and reasonable costs to have the work 
carried out by Mrs Ls chosen suppliers, in line with the terms of the policy. 
Communication
The relevant industry rules require QIC to provide reasonable guidance to help a 
policyholder make a claim and appropriate information on its progress.Mrs L says QICs communication with her has been inadequate. Shes commented on 
terminology its used, which she believes is designed to confuse claimants. She says 
responses to her questions have been vague.
In its response to her complaint, QIC said it considered its portal to be an acceptable method 
of communication, but it could be disabled if Mrs L wished to use alternative methods. It 
apologised that some of the terminology was confusing.
However, Mrs L says shes happy with the portal as a method of communication. Her main 
concern is that the questions she raised were not answered or explained.
Having reviewed the portal messages and letters, I agree that QICs communication wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. Ive already mentioned the conflicting information it gave 
regarding the inclusion of removing garden debris in the policy limit for trees etc. 
This has resulted in frustration and inconvenience for Mrs L, who contacted QIC several 
times in an attempt to get clarification. 
It also gave her the wrong information about what she was entitled to under the terms of the 
policy. And it didnt suggest Mrs L provide estimates to show the costs of using her own 
suppliers. So, I dont think QIC has done enough to help Mrs L with her claim. 
In conclusion
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think QICs cash settlement offer is fair. It hasnt 
made an appropriate allowance for the costs of removing the garden debris. And its 
calculation seems to be based on the likely cost to QIC if it had arranged for the work to 
have been carried out, rather than the likely cost to Mrs L. 
Overall, I think QICs handling of Mrs Ls claim and its communication with her has been 
poor. Her concerns about QICs settlement offer prevented Mrs L from being able to get the 
work carried out. This was frustrating and upsetting for Mrs L who says shes been unable to 
go outside as her garden is so severely damaged. So, I intend to award Mrs L £500 to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
I set out what I intended to direct QIC to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
QIC apologised for implying the skip hire was for the removal of plants and trees. It said the 
scope includes a skip hire which is for the removal of all of the building debris, in addition to 
the £2,500 limit for the removal of the garden debris. It said it doesnt include digger hire, as 
it is satisfied it could be performed by hand.
QIC said the removal of the trees and garden debris falls within the scope of the £2,500 limit 
and it would not cover anything involving the removal that falls beyond this limit.
QIC said it was satisfied that the removal of all debris had been included in the scope of 
works but it had considered Mrs Ls concerns with regards to the labour for removal of 
debris. Whilst it didnt believe that a digger was required, it would be willing to consider 
further labour costs.
QIC said that whilst it was determined that the previous structures would be considered non-
standard these days, it would be willing to instruct a regional surveyor and contractor to discuss alternative options with Mrs L. It said, if we could put this option to Mrs L, it could 
arrange for a visit to take place. It said this would negate the dispute with the labour costs, 
as the contractors would look to include all work within the scope if it was determined that a 
replacement was available.
We passed QICs comments on to Mrs L so she could consider them with my provisional 
decision.
Mrs L said she agreed with what Id said in my provisional decision and thought what Id 
proposed seemed fair and reasonable. She said she didnt think shed be able to find a 
contractor willing to dig out 60m of mature but dead 8ft high hedge and other garden trees 
by hand. She said this would be extremely time consuming and the labour costs would far 
outweigh the costs of a digger.
Mrs L said she had no confidence in QICs surveyors and was concerned that taking up 
QICs proposal to discuss alternative options would mean restarting the claims process. She 
was also concerned about further dealings with QICs team given the poor customer service 
and communication shed experienced. She said it had been impossible to live without some 
garden storage, so shed already purchased a small garden shed to replace one of those 
lost. 
Mrs L said the only offer now should be an increased settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I explained why I didnt think it was fair for QIC to include the 
removal of garden debris in the £2,500 limit. QIC disagrees with this, but it hasnt said why. 
So, Im not persuaded to change my conclusion on this. QIC may only apply the £2,500 cap 
to the cost of replacing plants, trees, flowers and shrubs. It shouldnt include the cost of 
removing garden debris in this limit.
QIC says it doesnt think a digger is necessary for removing the garden debris, but I havent 
seen evidence to show me that it would be more cost effective to get the work done by hand. 
In my provisional decision I said I thought QIC should make a revised settlement offer once 
Mrs L has had the opportunity to obtain further quotes to demonstrate what it would cost her 
to complete the reinstatement works. Mrs L believes she would have difficulty finding a 
contractor to do the work without the use of a digger. So, I think it would be fair for QIC to 
cover Mrs Ls fair and reasonable costs of having the work carried out by her chosen 
suppliers, regardless of whether this includes the use of a digger.
I think Mrs Ls concerns about QIC potentially carrying out the work itself at this stage are 
understandable. QIC had the opportunity to carry out rebuilding work, repairs or 
replacements using its preferred contractors, but it chose to make a cash settlement. I dont 
think it would be fair to expect Mrs L to give QIC a further opportunity to consider using its 
preferred contractors now. I think the best way to resolve matters for Mrs L would be for QIC 
to put things right in the way I set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
QIC should:Make Mrs L a fair cash settlement offer, in line with the terms of the policy. This 
should reflect fair and reasonable costs, so that Mrs L can get the work done by her 
chosen contractors. Fair and reasonable costs being a settlement based on market 
rates for the work to be done, as opposed to any discounted rate QIC may have 
received using its preferred contractors. The settlement should include an amount to 
cover the cost of removing garden debris, outside of the policy limit for loss or 
damage to plants, trees, flowers and shrubs.
Pay Mrs L £500 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint and direct QIC Europe Ltd to put 
things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman