DRN-3020718
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car acquired with finance from Vauxhall Finance plc wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In March 2015 Mr B was supplied with a new car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Vauxhall.
Mr B experienced issues with the clutch. In March 2017 the car was returned to the 
supplying dealer and the clutch and slave cylinder were replaced under warranty at no cost 
to Mr B.
In June 2019 Mr B experienced further issues with the clutch. The car was taken to a garage 
and the clutch, slave cylinder  and flywheel were replaced. The cost of the repairs was 
£1,116.
Mr B raised a complaint with Vauxhall. He wasnt happy that hed incurred repairs costs and 
asked for these to be refunded. He said there was an inherent fault with the clutch because it 
had required two major repairs.
In response, Vauxhall said that because of the time and mileage elapsed since the point of 
supply, it thought the car was fit for purpose. It said it wouldnt reimburse the repair costs but 
agreed to review the complaint if Mr B provided evidence to show that the repairs had been 
required as a result of a manufacturing defect. 
Mr B wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he didnt think the clutch was sufficiently 
durable and that this meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. He said Vauxhall should 
refund the repair costs.
Vauxhall didnt agree. It said there were factors which could contribute to the clutch failing 
prematurely, including the way in which the car was driven.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Vauxhall supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality.  Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. Satisfactory quality includes fitness for 
purpose, safety and durability.
Mr B was supplied with a brand-new car. So, Id expect it to be of a higher quality than a 
second-hand car and free from defects for a reasonable period of time. 
Ive looked at the information from the supplying dealer, who carried out the first repair to the 
clutch. Ive also looked at the information from the garage who carried out the second repair 
to the clutch. The information shows that the clutch and the slave cylinder have been 
replaced twice in around 3 years. Based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that there 
was a fault with the clutch which necessitated the repairs.
Ive thought about whether the car was of satisfactory quality. The first fault with the clutch 
occurred in March 2017, around 2 years after the point of supply. The car had covered 
around 17,000 miles at this stage. The second fault occurred in March 2019, and the car had 
covered around 37,000 miles by then. Ive taken account of what Vauxhall has said about 
there being no evidence of the fault not being present at the point of supply. Whilst I 
appreciate that the first fault didnt occur until 2 years after the point of supply, I also have to 
consider whether the clutch was durable, because the car was brand new at the point of 
supply and hadnt covered very much mileage when the first clutch fault occurred.
Information available about this model of car suggests that the clutch should last around 
60,000 miles. So, its of concern that the clutch on Mr Bs car failed at 17,000 miles, and 
again at 37,000 miles.
The evidence provided by the garage who repaired the clutch on the second occasion states 
that it is unusual to expect to replace a clutch on a car of this age and mileage. The fact that 
the clutch as replaced two years earlier makes it more likely than not that there is an 
inherent defect which has caused the clutch to fail prematurely twice.
Ive taken into account what Vauxhall has said about the possible cause of the clutch failure 
being due to how the car is driven. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mr B 
driving style is the reason for the clutch failure. This hasnt been stated by either of the 
garages who carried out repairs.
Taking everything into consideration, Im persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
because the clutch wasnt sufficiently durable.
Putting things right
The first repair was carried out under warranty at no cost to Mr B. But the second repair cost 
him £1,116. These repair costs arose because Vauxhall supplied  car which wasnt of 
satisfactory quality, so I think its fair to ask Vauxhall to reimburse Mr B.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Vauxhall Finance plc must
Reimburse Mr B the sum of £1,116 for repairs plus 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file in relation to the agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman