DRN-3414463
The complaint
Mr H complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Provident (Provident) has 
reported missed payment markers to the credit reference agencies which he says are 
inaccurate. 
What happened
The inaccurate information Mr H says is being reported on his credit file, is connected with 
two loans granted by Provident. A summary of those loans can be found in the table below. 
The loan number doesnt relate to the number that loan was in the lending relationship. 
loan loan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £900.00 06/06/2014 08/04/2016 84 £21.60
2 £1,500.00 06/06/2014 18/11/2016 110 £30.00
Looking at the above table, considering the intended term and how long the loans ran for 
you would expect there to be some adverse payment information reported to the credit 
reference agencies because it took Mr H longer to repay these loans than Provident 
anticipated. 
Mr H complained to Provident in January 2022 saying the information that it had recorded 
about the two loans above showed hed missed 12 months of consecutive payments on 
one loan and three months on the other. In order to put things right, he asked for the 
information to be removed. 
Looking at the information Mr H has provided, his credit file shows the following about the 
two loans. The number after the month denotes how many months in arrears the loan has 
been recorded. 
Loan 1
February 2016  2
March 2016  1
What the above information shows is that by February 2016 Mr H had missed a sufficient 
number of weekly repayments to put the account at least two months in arrears. Before, 
reducing the arrears in the March 2016 and then the account was closed. 
Loan 2
January 2016  August 2016  3
September 2016  2
October 2016 - 1 
For this loan, it shows that between January 2016  August 2016 Mr H was at least three 
months in arrears. But as the arrears didnt continue to go up, for example to 4. This would 
indicate that Mr H was on top of his repayments because the arrears werent increasing. And  
he also wasnt making overpayments because the arrears dont appear to have decreased 
either. So, his arrears werent getting worse but neither was any headway being made to 
repay them. 
During this time Provident also recorded that Mr Hs balances were decreasing. 
On 18 January 2022, Provident wrote to Mr H outlining that as payments had been missed 
while repaying these loans it was entitled to report this information with the credit reference 
agencies (CRA). It also explained that as the missed payments hadnt been brought up to 
date, the arrears would continue to be reported to the CRAs even if other payments had 
been made.  
Unhappy with this response, Mr H referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. He said he could see both 
loans were repaid late, and so he would expect some adverse payment information to have 
been recorded. He thought the information recorded by Provident with the CRAs was an 
accurate reflection of how the loans had been managed.  
Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In response he said.
He provided a link to a third-party website which explained how the arrears should be 
reported. 
Mr H says that after two months or more in arrears then this will trigger a default 
notice  which he never received. 
For the account to be 10 months in arrears that wouldve resulted in over 40 missed 
weekly repayments and a default.
From the statement of accounts there arent two consecutive missed payments. 
Some weeks Mr H made additional payments, so he doesnt think the reporting 
procedure to the CRAs has been followed. 
Following his assessment, the adjudicator asked some further questions of Provident who 
confirmed the following;
By the last week of 2015 Mr H was around £47 in arrears.
Provident showed some weeks in 2016 payments werent made such as week 24 
and 25 of the year. 
Evidence provided confirmed that both loans in the table above were repaid later 
than the contractual due date. 
Provident does say that the reporting improved at the end of 2016 for the loan, it 
doesnt know why and says this may be incorrect. 
The adjudicator went back to Mr H to explain that he still felt his original assessment 
remained correct. In his view, the information Provident is reporting to the CRAs is accurate. 
Although, he did accept, that he wasnt sure why the arrears were removed at the end of 
2016 because Provident couldnt say. But he wasnt going to ask Provident to do anymore 
because this could mean further adverse information is reported to the CRAs. 
Mr H unhappy with the outcome asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint  but he 
did provide some further comments at this time. Ive summarised these below.Provident should be reporting accurate account history to the CRAs. 
Provident should adjust the way it reports to the CRAs in order to reflect accurately 
how the account as been repaid. 
If weekly repayments  which Mr H was making do not fall within the monthly 
reporting by the CRAs than Provident ought to have adapted its credit reporting 
procedure. 
Mr H then provided further information about a refund Provident had agreed to pay following 
a complaint made to its Scheme of Arrangement. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scheme of Arrangement 
Mr H has provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with copies of letters he has recently 
received from Provident. 
It is worth noting here that Provident entered into a Scheme of Arrangement (with the 
agreements of the Courts). This scheme was created to deal with unaffordable lending 
complaint. 
The first letter he sent to us, dated 26 April 2022 shows the outcome of Mr Hs claim he 
submitted through the Scheme of Arrangement. This provided a list of loans which following 
his unaffordable lending complaint the Scheme had upheld.  
However, later Mr H told us that he appealed this outcome with the independent adjudicator 
 which is part of the formal appeals process built into the Scheme of Arrangement. 
Mr H says that he then received another letter from Provident on 1 July 2022 with a new 
compensation offer. Mr H then says that a letter was received dated 3 July 2022 from your 
appeals partner. To be clear the Scheme of Arrangement and any appeal made under the 
scheme is a completely separate and is an independent process that does not involve the 
Financial Ombudsman Service in any way. 
The adjudicator pointed out to Mr H that as his loans have been upheld as part of the 
Scheme of Arrangement, Provident would also update his credit file accordingly. So, she 
suggested, that in effect this complaint may be resolved. However, Mr H asked for his 
complaint to remain open, and to have a decision. 
This decision will only be focussing on whether Provident was right or wrong to apply the 
adverse payment markers. This was also the subject matter of the final response letter 
forwarded to us and what the complaint form that Mr H completed dealt with. 
I make no finding about any unaffordable lending because that is for the Scheme of 
Arrangement to decide. I know Mr H is unhappy and wants to appeal the settlement that has 
been agreed. But as the Scheme of Arrangement was set up in the Courts and is 
independent of the Financial Ombudsman Service, we are unable to become involved in any 
discussions about the redress that has been proposed. If Mr H is unhappy with any aspect of the Scheme, he may want to seek independent advice 
as to what his next steps may or may not be. 
Adverse credit file data 
As I have said above, I am just looking at whether the adverse information reported is an 
accurate reflection of the conduct of the loan accounts. These findings are also independent 
and separate to any claim that Mr H has made through Providents Scheme of Arrangement. 
It is also worth adding here, that as the first loan in the table above was closed in April 2016 
 which is now more than six year ago, this loan should no longer be showing on Mr Hs 
credit file. 
Due to the situation with Provident some evidence that we may have wanted to see, is no 
longer available and wont be available for consideration. So, Ive had to base my findings on 
what evidence has been presented by both parties as well as what I think is most likely to 
have happen. 
As Ive said above, its clear from the loan table it took Mr H longer than the contracted term 
for both loans to be repaid. For example, for the second loan, this was meant to have been 
repaid within 104 weeks or two years. However, as you can see by the closure date it took 
longer to repay.
Given the additional time to settle the loan this would indicate that Mr H must have either 
missed repayments or had a period where he was making reduced payments. I would 
therefore expect there to be some adverse information reported to the CRAs about both of 
these loans.  
To start with, it is worth considering what the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says 
about reporting arrears to the credit file. The ICO is the body created which deals with an 
individuals data, and it has released a document called Principles for the Reporting of 
Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. It is entirely reasonable 
to rely on this, because when determining a complaint, amongst other things, I am required 
to take into account good industry practice and in my view, these principles constitutes good 
industry practice in this area.
Part, of principle one which is relevant here is;
Whilst most credit products are repaid monthly, some are not, such as home 
credit(1). In these cases, the information will be adapted to meet the monthly 
reporting standards of the credit reference industry.
The foot note (1) says;
Home collected credit includes informal flexibility as standard to help debtors cope 
with unexpected budget pressures. In effect, the home credit agent can - during the 
weekly home visit - agree missed or part payments on the spot (normally at no extra 
cost). These informal variations are not themselves reported. However, when the 
debtor has - in aggregate - missed to the value of 4.33 weekly repayments 
(equivalent to one months arrears), that is reported (as arrears). Only the larger 
home credit companies use the reporting agencies.
So, the ICO has put clear guidance in place, for home credit providers as to how and when 
arrears can be reported. It says, that until 4.33 weekly payments are missed no arrears will be reported with the CRAs. This as the guidance says deals with the flexibility that home 
credit providers give.
While I understand Mr Hs frustration about how arrears are reported to the CRAs, the ICO 
has set out guidance for home credit providers as to how arrears should be reported. 
Thinking about the above guidance, Ive not seen anything to make me think that adverse 
information wasnt reported to the CRAs in line with this guidance.
 
What this does mean, in a hypothetical situation could be that Mr H could miss one payment 
a month and only have a 1 recorded with the CRAs after month five. But what that wouldnt 
mean, is that Mr H had missed a whole month of payments in the fifth month. But an 
accumulation of missed weekly repayments, will eventually lead to adverse credit file data 
being reported. 
Principle two says;
Reporting of arrears over time 
Arrears should generally only increase by one month at a time e.g. status code 1 to 
2, 2 to 3 etc. There can be exceptions to this such as fraud, bankruptcy, county court 
judgments (CCJs), returned cheques or direct debits. In the event that repayments 
are made and the arrears reduce, the change in arrears status should be recorded in 
the next monthly update.
So again, the ICO makes it clear that arrears will continue to be recorded depending on what 
happens with the repayments. And should arrears be caught up over a period of time, then 
its entirely possible for arrears to reduce and therefore the status codes reduce. 
Ive thought about what the ICO says overall, and specially with the quotes above, as well as 
what I can see in Mr Hs credit file.
Firstly, Ive considered the statement of account which Provident has provided for both loans 
in questions. I can see, from each statement of account that there are a number of missed 
weekly repayments. For example, Mr H misses his first weekly repayment for both loans in 
the middle of June 2014. In line with the ICO guidance, this shouldnt have been reported to 
the CRAs as arrears because at this time Mr Hs account wasnt 4.33 weeks in arrears.
It also seems from the statement of account that Mr H was paying 40 pence a week more for 
loan one, than the contract, this wouldve of course, over time mitigated any missed 
payments he had. This may explain why this account wasnt in as many months of arrears 
as loan two. 
For loan one, I can see a number of missed payments some in consecutive weeks others at 
sporadic points throughout the repayment of the loan. The same sort of pattern can be seen 
for loan two as well. Indeed, if you look at the statement of account for the second loan, 
there is, according to Provident, 22 occasions when Mr H was due to make a payment and 
didnt. But this is spread out over a period of two years. 
Therefore, I would have expected there to have been adverse payment information reported 
 which is what Provident has done. Overall, I think the reporting of the adverse credit file 
data is an accurate summary of the way that Mr H repaid his loan accounts. 
Ive considered what Mr H says about the account showing that there is 40 weeks of arrears, 
and I dont agree with this. For loan two, Provident has reported that at most the account 
was at least three months in arrears but less than four months in arrears and we already know, from the ICO guidance that one-month arrears is equal to 4.33 weeks of arrears. So, I 
dont agree that either loan account had at least 40 weeks of arrears. 
What Provident has reported, is the account was in arrears and took longer to repay than the 
contracted term. Both of which we know to be the case from the statement of account. 
Therefore, I consider it fair and reasonable that Provident records this on Mr Hs credit file. 
Mr H has said that given loan two was three months in arrears he couldve been defaulted- 
but this didnt happen as no notice was received. Ive certainly thought about that. But, the 
ICO guidance around reporting of defaults says an account may be defaulted once it is three 
months of arrears. But there are also other factors to consider  such as whether Provident 
considered that the relationship had broken down. 
Given the repayment history Id struggle to argue this was the case, given that Mr H did 
regularly make his repayments and there is nothing to suggest that Mr H told Provident he 
was having financial difficulties was refusing to pay. 
However, in this case, I do think not reporting or instigating a default was the correct course 
of action to take. And any default that may have been reported wouldve likely had a 
significantly greater impact on Mr Hs credit score than the arrears that it has reported. 
Thinking about the conduct of the accounts, I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint and 
Provident doesnt have to make any adjustments to his credit file because what it has 
reported is an accurate reflection of the conduct of the account. 
However, as Ive said above loan 1 should now be removed from the credit file due to it 
being close more than six years ago. Loan 2 will be removed from his credit file at the end of 
2022. Of course, Provident may make adjustments before that date depending on the result 
of Mr Hs claim through the Scheme of Arrangement which is an independent process 
looking at a different complaint to what I have considered. 
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by the outcome, but I hope my explanation has been 
helpful in explaining why I have come to the decision that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman