Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2001. Mr H says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading at the time as Egg, mis-
sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Eggs record of Mr Hs application for the credit card shows it was done online. And Egg has 
sent us screenshots of what it says the online application form wouldve looked like at the 
time. These show a section on PPI, with yes and no options to be selected to show 
whether the customer wants to take it out. And Eggs record of Mr Hs application also shows 
he selected the yes option.
Based on this, I think Egg made it clear to Mr H that he had a choice about the PPI. And that 
Mr HH chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure he got the information he needed to decide if the PPI was right for 
him.
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid 
out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve 
meant he didnt need to rely on his family or any savings he had to make his repayments if 
he wasnt earning. So the PPI would have been useful for him if something went wrong and I 
dont think better information about it wouldve put Mr H off taking it out.
Which means egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
 Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mr H,
that was unfair.
DRN-1129033 To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mr H was subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement, so he should bear in mind his 
potential obligations to his insolvency practitioner in respect of any redress he receives.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman