DRN-3236088
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about a Personal Equity Plan (PEP, now referred to as an ISA) sold 
to her by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax). In particular, she is unhappy with what 
she says was a significant drop in value in 2009.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs Ds PEP was taken out in 1997 (more than six years before her complaint was 
raised). The rules which set out what we can and cant look into (DISP rules) are set 
out by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority in their handbook. They say that 
we can only look at complaints brought within three years of when a consumer ought 
reasonably to have become aware of a cause for complaint. I agree with the 
investigator that this would have been when the value fell significantly in 2009. This 
means that the complaint about the PEP being mis-sold has not been brought to us 
in time. I note that Mrs D accepted that conclusion by the investigator and said she 
will continue that complaint through other means.
Mrs D has also complained that the value of her investments was impacted by 
fraudulent activity by members of staff. She has said she first became aware of this 
through an article in 2019. As such, I agree that this element of the complaint has 
been brought to us in time (within three years).  
However, I havent seen enough to conclude that the allegations and convictions that 
Mrs D talks about, have directly impacted the value of Mrs Ds investments. I say this 
predominantly because the evidence that Mrs D has provided, talks of the actions 
taking place between 2003 and 2007 and this was some years before the drop in 
value of these shares. 
I have also seen that an independent customer compensation review was carried 
out. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs Ds account was found to have been 
affected and I havent seen anything further to this, to conclude that was wrong. 
I note also that the share price fell at a time of significant market volatility following 
the 2008 financial crisis. This was a time where almost the market as a whole was 
impacted. Whilst I understand the value of Mrs Ds shares fell significantly, this 
investment wasnt unique in suffering at this time. 
I can see that after Mrs D first complained in March 2019, she didnt receive a final 
response to her complaint until November that year and then a further one in 
December. Mrs D has also said that she had to go to significant lengths to get an 
answer and response to her concerns. Whilst I agree that was too long, I can see 
that they paid her £300 compensation for the inconvenience this had. I think that is 
fair, considering the impact it had on Mrs D.
For these reasons, although I understand Mrs Ds disappointment, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman