DRN-3731293
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs F complain that Capital Home Loans Limited (trading as CHL Mortgages) 
makes unnecessary checks when they make lump sum payments into their mortgage 
account. Mr A has dealt with the complaint. He asks for compensation for his administration 
costs, the additional interest and the nightmare theyve suffered. 
What happened
Mr A and Mrs F make lump sum payments into their mortgage account. Mr A says each time 
they make a lump sum payment CHL asks for information about the source of the funds. He 
finds the questions intrusive and unnecessary and says CHLs checks delay the lump sums 
being applied to the mortgage, which results in additional interest.
Our investigator said CHL was following the procedures it was required by regulations to 
have in place. Mr A and Mrs F didnt agree. Mr A said once his complaint is concluded, hell 
take legal action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A and Mrs F make regular lump sum payments into their mortgage account. Mr A says 
every time they do this, CHL holds up the payment for weeks asking questions and for 
additional information. Mr A finds these requests unnecessary, upsetting and intrusive. He 
says the law provides that he can make payments up to £1,000 without providing information 
about his source of income.
Providing the requested information is inconvenient for Mr A. I can understand this was 
especially frustrating if Mr A had already taken time to discuss the payments with his 
accountant and to provide the information he thought CHL should rely on. 
Ultimately though its for CHL to decide what information and evidence it needs to meet its 
regulatory requirements and its own policies, not Mr A or his accountant. 
CHL doesnt have to provide copies of its internal policies to Mr A, or to any customer. It did 
provide a copy of its policy to us. 
CHL also provided copies of its requests for information. I think its requests for information 
were in line with its policy, and I dont think they were unreasonable. I think it was 
reasonable for CHL to ask for better copies of documents which werent clear, and that bank 
statements include the name of the account holder. I think it was reasonable for it to ask for 
more information about where funds had come from if this wasnt clear from the information 
provided. 
I think it was reasonable for CHL to say it wouldnt credit payments to Mr A and Mrs Fs 
account until it was satisfied with the information provided. And if it didnt receive the 
information it needed, it was reasonable for it to return the cheque. 
Its not for me to decide if CHL acted unlawfully, as Mr S suggests it did when asking for 
information about the source of funds when they made a payment of less than £1,000. That 
would be a matter for a court. What I can consider is if CHL made an error or treated Mr A 
and Mrs F unfairly. I dont think it did, and so I wont be upholding their complaint. 
Mr A says he intends to take legal action. If Mr A and Mrs F dont accept my decision theyll 
be free to take the matter to court if they wish to do so. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman