DRN-3538734
The complaint
Ms P complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) irresponsibly granted her credit that she 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
NewDay approved several credit card applications for Ms P, as follows:
Amazon credit card approved April 2018 with an initial credit limit of £500, which quickly rose 
to £600 and increased again to £1,500 in September 2018 and £2,500 in March 2019.
Debenhams credit card approved in November 2018 with a limit of £1,750
Opus credit card approved in February 2019 with a limit of £900. 
Ms P says that in all instances NewDay were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable 
for her.
NewDay disagree. They say that when they approved the cards they reviewed Ms Ps credit 
file and for all the applications they found she had no arrears, no County Court judgments, 
and no defaults registered on her file. They said that Ms P had told them she had an income 
of £19,500 and there was additional household income that they thought it fair to suggest  
Ms P would have access to. They saw no reason not to approve any of the accounts or 
credit limit increases as they believed the evidence suggested the credit was affordable for 
Ms P.
Our investigator thought that NewDay were reasonable when approving the Amazon card 
but didnt think NewDay should have approved the September 2018 limit increase on that 
card or have provided any further lending. She suggested NewDay should take some action 
to remedy the situation. But as NewDay disagreed the complaint has been referred to me, 
an ombudsman, for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
The Amazon account opening 
I think NewDay completed proportionate checks before approving this credit card. They 
reviewed Ms Ps credit file and gathered some information from her about her income and 
circumstances. I think that information suggested Ms P could afford the £500 credit they 
were offering. There was unsecured debt on Ms Ps credit file of about £15,900 but her 
performance on the other credit agreements she had was good, the credit being offered 
reasonably limited, and her income would seem sufficient to afford repayments in the long 
term.
There was a modest £100 limit increase a couple of months later by which time NewDay 
would have been able to assess Ms Ps performance on her account. The account had 
stayed within limits and payments had been received in time, so I dont think that £100 
increase was unaffordable.
The Amazon card limit increase in September 2018
I dont think NewDays checks were proportionate at this point. Theyve explained that they 
considered Ms Ps credit file and her performance on the account. The credit file showed 
that her unsecured debt had risen significantly, and shed also gone over her limit on the 
account in the previous month. Ms P had also been withdrawing cash from the account. I 
think thats an expensive way to obtain money and, all told, I think there was a suggestion 
she was over reliant on her credit card and may have been struggling financially.
So, I think NewDay should have obtained some more information, such as information on  
Ms Ps living costs, to assure themselves that the additional credit was affordable for her. I 
cant be sure exactly what NewDay would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of 
anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant weight on the information 
contained in Ms Ps bank statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These show that Ms Ps 
monthly net income was £1,295 and her outgoings including food, car costs, insurances and 
communication costs exceeded that income. This demonstrates that Ms P didnt have 
enough disposable income to afford the additional borrowing. NewDay therefore didnt act 
fairly by approving the finance.
The Debenhams account
NewDay completed similar checks before this account was opened but I think the evidence 
still suggested further checks would have been proportionate because Ms Ps position was 
similar when she applied for this account. Her unsecured debt had risen further since her 
limit was increased on her Amazon card. Had NewDay had asked for more information I 
think the evidence in Ms Ps bank statements would have suggested the additional credit 
wasnt affordable for her.
The Opus account
NewDay completed similar checks before this account was opened but, again, I think the 
evidence it collected would have suggested further checks were necessary. Ms Ps 
indebtedness had increased further at this point and she was regularly withdrawing cash 
from her account. Shed also exceeded her credit limit on her other cards on several 
occasions in the preceding months. I think that evidence alone would have been enough to 
suggest it was not responsible to extend further credit and to increase Ms Ps indebtedness 
further.
The Amazon limit increase in 2019
I cant see that Ms Ps situation had improved by the time her limit was increased to £2,500. 
Her indebtedness had worsened, and she had recently been over limit on her Amazon 
account and had still been withdrawing cash. I think the lending was therefore clearly 
unaffordable. Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay should have approved the Debenhams and Opus cards or have 
increased the credit limit beyond £600 on the Amazon card, I dont think its fair for it to 
charge any interest or charges on the Opus or Debenhams cards or on any balances that 
exceeded the £600 Amazon limit. However, Ms P has had the benefit of all the money she 
spent on the account so I dont think that spending should be refunded. The accounts were 
all closed in 2021 so, NewDay should:
Refund all interest, fees, charges, and insurances except for those attracted on the 
Amazon card when the credit limit was £600 or below. Add 8% simple interest per 
year*.
Remove all adverse information reported to Ms Ps credit file from the point the 
Amazon account limit was increased to £600. And remove all adverse information 
reported to Ms Ps credit file regarding the other two accounts
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Ms P a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. 
If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd to put things right in the manner set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman