DRN-3239597
The complaint
Mr B complains that La Reunion Aerienne London Limited (LRAL) unfairly declined a claim 
under an aircraft insurance policy.
Any reference to LRAL includes any agents and representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr B is a joint policyholder on an aircraft insurance policy. And following an aircraft 
accident, Mr B sought to claim under this insurance.
LRAL declined the claim under one of its general exclusions which said it excluded 
cover if the aircraft was being piloted by anyone other than a person listed within the 
schedule of insurance. It said Mr A, who wasnt named on the schedule, was piloting 
at the time of the incident.
Mr B disagreed, saying he had remained the pilot-in-command (PIC) throughout all 
phases of the flight, and had been sat in the command seat of the aircraft  which is 
the only seat to have full access to all flying controls. He also referenced the Air 
Navigation Order (ANO) which says in a two-seat aircraft there can be only a PIC 
and a passenger. 
Mr B also said the exclusion relied on was hidden within the policy. And that LRAL 
had misrepresented and editorialised Mr As comments to suit its purpose. 
The matter was brought to this Service and one of our Investigators didnt uphold the 
complaint. They said the policy listed which individuals could fly the plane. And that 
Mr A was not included within this list. 
The Investigator considered Mr Bs arguments, but said PIC wasnt a term that was 
included within the policy terms. They felt a reasonable interpretation of the term 
piloted was someone having input in, or universal use of the controls of the aircraft 
at that time. And they noted Mr As testimony which referenced having input to the 
controls of the aircraft at a key time, and in which he indicates his own mishandling of 
the throttle contributed to the incident. So, the Investigator concluded the claim had 
been fairly declined by LRAL.
Mr B disagreed, saying it was unreasonable that the term piloted was not defined 
within the policy. He said piloted should be defined as PIC. He asked whether this 
Service had sought advice from the relevant regulator. And he made reference to 
insurer remedies for qualifying breaches under the Insurance Act 2015.
The Investigator didnt change their mind, so the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take
into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards,
codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry
practice at the time. Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ill start by considering the policy terms. Under Pilots the policy schedule lists several 
names and goes on to include any Qualified Flying Instructor.
Mr B is included within this list, but Mr A isnt. And no party has claimed to be acting as a 
qualified flying instructor during this flight.
The term LRAL has relied on in declining the claim falls under general exclusions. It says the 
policy does not provide cover while the aircraft is being piloted by any person other than as 
stated in the Schedule.
So, they key consideration I have to decide in this case, is whether Mr A was piloting the 
aircraft.
Mr As statement details his account of events. He said Mr B gave him a quick briefing of 
the aircraft, and said Critically we did not brief on cockpit roles. Mr A goes on to describe in 
detail handling the aircraft in flight. As Mr A describes the descent, he said:
The decent [sic] rate increased significantly and I mishandled the throttle. The approach 
became unstable and I was still concerned about the position of the motor glider. I said I was 
going around and applied full power.
These comments suggest to me Mr A had control of the aircraft as seemingly he both 
decided and actioned how to proceed in flight. The subsequent landing led to the damage in 
question, so it also seems Mr A had control over the aircraft at a key time of the flight in 
relation to the crash.
The term piloted is not defined by the policy. Nor have I been directed to any particular 
definition of this term in law or elsewhere. Looking at various ordinary dictionary definitions 
of the word it seems the key characteristics would be to fly or operate an aircraft. And it 
seems to me that having control of the aircraft in the way Mr A described would amount to 
him having piloted the aircraft.
 
Mr B has said there can be only a PIC and a passenger in an aircraft such as this. And that 
in turn, he was the PIC and Mr A was the passenger.
Passenger is defined under the policy as any person on board other than the person 
acting as the pilot, co-pilot, instructor, or any person receiving instruction.
Based on Mr As description of events and control over the aircraft, I dont think it would be 
accurate or reasonable to conclude that Mr A was a passenger in light of this definition. I 
think this further suggests that Mr A was piloting the aircraft, even if he was not the PIC.
Mr B has placed a lot of weight on the role of the PIC. And hes referred to legal advice he 
sought that he says unequivocally shows he was piloting throughout. But from what Ive 
seen, the legal advice hes referred simply repeats a definition from the European Union 
Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) regulations for the term PIC. And the representative says 
there could be only one PIC in this type of aircraft. Even if I agreed Mr B was the PIC at the time  which is disputed between the parties  this 
wouldnt change my mind. I say this as Im satisfied Mr A was piloting the aircraft at the time 
of the incident, beyond the role of a passenger, and not in line with the terms of the policy. 
For all of the above reasons, Im satisfied LRAL has fairly declined this claim in line with the 
policy terms and I wont be asking it to do anything further.
Mr B has said the policy terms were hidden, however having read the terms myself Im 
satisfied the exclusion relied upon was clear. He has also referenced remedies available 
under the Insurance Act 2015. However, the part hes mentioned relates to 
misrepresentation in insurance, which isnt what LRAL has relied on in this case. So, these 
remedies arent relevant to this claim, and havent changed my mind.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman