DRN-2225115
The complaint
Miss H complained about a loan she took out through a company called Western Circle 
Limited, trading at the time as Cashfloat. Miss H says it lent to her irresponsibly and this 
contributed to financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Cashfloat in this decision.
What happened
We now know that Miss H took out 1 loan from Cashfloat:
loan date taken date repaid amount termmonthly 
repayment
1 19/09/2019 outstanding £300 4 months £129.77
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld. 
Cashfloat didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Miss Hs complaint.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss H could repay the loans she was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amount and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cashfloat should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Miss H could sustainably repay the loans, not just whether the repayments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan repayments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that 
Miss H could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Cashfloat told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Miss H, including 
assessing her income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says that the information it had, 
showed that Miss H would be able to make the loan repayments she was committing to, 
sustainably. But I dont agree with this. 
We asked Cashfloat to show us details of the actual checks and searches it carried out at 
the point of the loan. It seems Miss H had a number of - albeit older - loans from the year or 
two before the sale, which still appeared to be outstanding. For example, at least three such 
loans seemed to demonstrate a difficulty with paying the repayments and Miss H has 
entered into arrangements with various lenders to pay back a moderate amount in each 
case because she couldnt afford the actual repayment amount(s). 
I cant be sure all were obviously shown as short-term loans although some obviously were.  
Nevertheless, I would expect a lender to be concerned about any relatively recent loans that 
were outstanding and in distress, when considering whether further borrowing was 
sustainable. And even though some of the negative credit history on Miss Hs credit file 
could have been viewed as somewhat out of date, there was certainly nothing which I can 
see which shows Miss Hs overall situation was getting any better throughout 2018-19 in the 
run up to her asking for this particular loan (in September 2019).
Cashfloat refers me to our normal approach to short-term lending where less in-depth 
checks are sometimes considered appropriate and proportionate at the beginning of a lender 
/ client relationship  and after all, Miss H had only asked to borrow from Cashfloat once. 
But this approach doesnt mean businesses can simply ignore obvious difficulties or 
anomalies present in consumers financial affairs. In this case, it was obvious, in my view, 
that Miss Hs finances were in a vulnerable state and everything pointed to more 
comprehensive checks being a sensible thing to do.
But having carried out the initial searches and checks it did, Cashfloat ought to have actually 
done something about what they revealed, and therefore drilled further into Miss Hs overall 
financial profile. This would have revealed a substantial history of having difficulties in 
managing money. It shouldnt have lent her the money and thats why Im upholding Miss Hs 
complaint.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Miss H, Cashfloat should:
refund all interest and charges Miss H paid on the loan;pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
it was paid (if it was) to the date of settlement
if part of the loan is still outstanding, remove any interest and charges still 
outstanding on the loan and treat any payments Miss H made towards this loan as 
payments towards the capital;
if reworking Miss Hs loan account as Ive directed above results in her effectively 
having made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Cashfloat should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement; 
If reworking Miss Hs loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Cashfloat can use the total refund for the loan to offset this. And if there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then I would remind it that it should take a sympathetic 
view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss H for the 
remaining capital;
remove any negative information about the loan from Miss Hs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. It must give Miss H a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Hs complaint and I direct Western Circle Limited to put things right for her as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman