DRN-3207889
The complaint
Mr P complains that PREPAID FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED (PFS) blocked his account 
and withheld his funds. He would like his funds and compensation.
What happened
Mr P had an account with PFS.
In October 2019 Mr P credited his account with about €1,000. Shortly after this his account 
was blocked. Mr P says he didnt receive an explanation why his account was blocked.
PFS requested information from Mr P regarding the origin of the funds in his account.
Mr P said the funds came from his sons account as well as from friends via his own 
personal account.
Mr P provided statements to PFS. But they were not satisfied so continued to withhold his 
funds.
Mr P complained to our service.
One of the investigators looked into the complaint. He said that PFS had done nothing wrong 
when they blocked the account and withheld the funds as they were complying with their 
regulatory obligations. PFS hadnt been provided with sufficient information to establish the 
origin of the funds.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators view  he said he had provided evidence of the origin 
of the funds  He said the money had come from an account he had abroad  he thought he 
had sufficiently shown he was entitled to the funds. He was also unhappy that PFS had not 
replied to his messages.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account review 
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Ps account.
Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation (which includes the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000, the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, the Money Laundering Regulations 
2017 and the Financial Conduct Authoritys financial crime requirements, place extensive 
obligations on regulated financial businesses to verify a customers identity, establish the 
purpose and nature of the business relationship and the origin of funds. Businesses are also 
required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. PFS has said 
that Mr Ps account was blocked to meet these legal requirements.
Mr P says he doesnt know why PFS blocked his account and he had no notice of the 
intended blocks. He says he has been without his money for a very long time  since 
November 2019.
Whilst I understand Mr Ps strength of feeling, as Ive already explained businesses have a 
legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. I cant say PFS has done 
anything wrong when it blocked Mr Ps account. 
I know Mr P wants PFS to explain the reason it blocked his account. And I can understand 
Mr Ps frustration that he hasnt been provided a detailed explanation. But as the investigator 
has explained, PFS is under no obligation to provide this information to him, as much as hed 
like to know. So, I cant say PFS has done anything wrong by not providing this information 
to him. 
Funds in the account
Mr P has said he want PFS to release the funds in the account which amount to about 
€1,000. He has provided evidence of the funds coming from one of his accounts with 
another bank. He has said his son transferred him some of the money as well as some 
friends. He has also mentioned a merchant refund.
I have looked at the evidence that Mr P have provided in this case.
In order for me to ask PFS to return the funds to Mr P, I have to be satisfied that he is 
entitled to the funds. Mr P has said that he has contacted PFS with his evidence on 
numerous occasions and they have not responded to him. PFS have said that they havent 
received the information they need from Mr P. It maybe that Mr P can now provide more 
information about the funds in his account. But I can understand why PFS didnt consider 
Mr P had adequately explained their source. So, I cant say PFS has done anything wrong 
when it decided not to release the money remaining in Mr Ps account to him. 
Having looked at the evidence I accept that PFS have withheld Mr Ps funds, but I havent 
seen any evidence so far to demonstrate that they have acted unfairly in doing so.
I understand this will be frustrating for Mr P but Im unable to say that PFS should return 
these funds to Mr P without evidence that hes entitled to them. And to date Ive not seen 
compelling evidence to indicate this. And therefore, I wont be asking PFS to do anything 
else. 
I acknowledge that Mr P has had a frustrating time trying to contact PFS but as they have 
done nothing wrong in blocking the account and the information that Mr P has provided isnt 
enough to satisfy their concerns, I cant award him any compensation for the upset he has 
suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman