DRN-2482648
The complaint
Mr H complains that Cova Life Limited (Covea) unfairly increased the premium rate on his 
life assurance policy.
Mr Hs policy is a Group Policy with a credit union and is underwritten by Covea. All 
references to Covea will include its agents.
What happened
Since 2008 Mr H has had a Family Protection Plan (the policy) with Covea. This is a life 
assurance policy that provides a lump sum payment in the event of Mr Hs death. It also 
provides death benefits for members of family nominated by Mr H. The monthly premiums 
were £28 and the policy provided life cover of £6,000.
In February 2020 Covea notified Mr H that the monthly premiums for his policy would 
increase to £39 from 1 April 2020. This was the first increase to the premium rate since 
Mr Hs policy started. Covea told Mr H the increase was necessary because the number of 
claims were higher than projected. Mr H complained saying hes a pensioner on a low 
income and he didnt think the scale of the increase was fair.
Covea responded reiterating the increase was due to the high level of claims. It noted under 
the terms and conditions (the terms) of the policy, it was entitled to change the premium 
rates with 30 days advance written notice. It said Mr H was under no obligation to continue 
with his cover at that level  he had the option to move to a plan with at a lower level of 
cover which would reduce his monthly cost. 
Our investigator considered the terms of the policy allowed for changes to be made with 
30 days written notice, which she said had happened in Mr Hs case. She didnt think Covea 
had acted unfairly when it applied its terms to Mr Hs policy with the required notice.
Mr H disagreed. He maintained that the proposed increase was exorbitant and wasnt fair. 
So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully noted all the representations made by Mr H, but I wont be addressing every 
single point hes raised. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to the 
outcome of Mr Hs complaint. 
Where a commercial decision has been made by a business relating to policyholders 
generally, this goes much wider than the individual complaint and concerns the way the 
business operates. We wouldnt normally interfere with the legitimate exercise of a business 
commercial judgment. I think any decision to increase the premiums rates is a commercial 
decision for Covea and its actuaries. Indeed Mr H accepts Covea is entitled to increase the 
premium rates, but what hes unhappy about is the scale of the increase.
I can see that under the terms of the policy it says:
Premium rates will be reviewed annually and may be changed no more than once a year. If 
We change the premium rate, We will give You (30) days advance written notice.
The terms were sent to Mr H at the start of the policy and at different times over the years 
when hes made changes, such as increasing the level of cover. So Im satisfied hes 
received the terms of the policy. It follows from this that I think Mr H was told the premium 
rates could change and if they were to do so, Covea needed to give him 30 days written 
notice. Im satisfied Covea did this in Mr Hs case.
As Ive said Mr H is unhappy about the scale of the increase. But as he says himself, this is 
the first premium rate increase hes had since the policy started. So hes had the benefit of a 
long period where the only increases to his premiums has been as a result of him opting for 
an increase in cover. I also note that Covea clearly explained to Mr H the reason why this 
change was necessary on this occasion. And given the required advanced notice was given 
to him, I cant fairly say Covea has done anything wrong in his case. 
I appreciate the timing of the increase is not ideal for Mr H due to his personal 
circumstances. If the policy no longer remains affordable to him, he has the option to lower 
his level of cover to reduce costs. Mr H says he doesnt want to do this due to the increased 
costs of funerals. Whilst I understand Mr H is in difficult position, I cant fairly ask Covea to 
do anything differently  its notified him of the change within the required timescale and the 
reason for it.
So whilst I recognise Mr H will be disappointed with this outcome, for the reasons Ive set out 
above, Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman