DRN-1533153
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C complain about Assurant General Insurance Limiteds service when Mrs C 
claimed on their mobile phone insurance. My references to Assurant include its agents.
What happened
Mrs and Mr C have mobile phone insurance through their bank account. The policy covers 
loss, theft, damage and breakdown subject to the policy terms. Assurant is the insurer.
In August 2019 Mrs C claimed on the policy as the screen of the phone she used had been 
broken accidently. Assurant accepted the claim, replaced the screen and returned the phone 
to Mrs C at the beginning of September 2019. The repaired phone came with a warranty.
At the end of October 2019 Mrs C told Assurant the replacement phone screen had cracked 
spontaneously while left in her work locker. Assurant wouldnt repair the phone under the 
warranty as damage wasnt covered. It said Mrs C could make a claim for damage under the 
policy which it would consider and she would have to pay the £25 claim excess.
Mrs and Mr C complained to us. Mrs C wants Assurant to repair the screen under the 
warranty using the phones manufacturers parts, without her paying an excess. She 
believes the screen cracked due to sub-standard parts used in the repair and/or poor fitting. 
Shes also unhappy about how Assurant handled the claim; it had referred to an earlier claim 
by Mr C and addressed letters to him, instead of her. 
Assurant accepted it made an administration error in originally registering the claim in Mr Cs 
name and against the wrong mobile phone. It apologised but said the error didnt affect its 
decision.
Our investigator said Assurant fairly declined to repair the phone under the warranty and 
Mrs C hadnt been disadvantaged by its administration error.
Mrs and Mr C disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy clearly says:
Repairs will be made using readily available parts, or we may provide 
remanufactured products. These may contain parts that are of similar or equivalent 
specification, and these may include unbranded parts.
So I think Assurant acted fairly in using unbranded parts to repair Mrs Cs phone. Most, if not 
all, general mobile phone insurance policies have similar terms. 
Assurants repair report shows the phone was repaired in line with its usual process and 
passed testing before being sent to Mrs C. Theres no evidence to support Mrs Cs 
suggestion that there was a problem with the replacement part and/or Assurants repair.
The warranty covers mechanical and electrical failures as a result of any manufacturing 
faults or defects. The warranty doesnt cover damage. I think Assurant could reasonably 
understand that the crack on the replacement screen wasnt due to a faulty part or poor 
fitting and conclude the phone was in some way damaged. Im satisfied Assurant acted fairly 
in declining to repair the replacement screen under the warranty.
Assurant offered to assess a damage claim under the policy (which is different to the 
warranty), which is fair. Under the policy terms Mrs C would need to pay the £25 excess if 
the claim was successful.
Assurant accepts its administration error was poor. I understand the consequences of the 
error were annoying for Mrs C. But Ive no evidence that her distress and inconvenience 
caused by the error were at such a level that it would be appropriate for me to make a 
compensation award. And the error didnt affect the outcome of Assurants decision. Ive 
explained above why its decision not to repair the replacement phone screen under the 
warranty was fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman