DRN-3250501
The complaint
Ms B complains about the charges made by Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot 
Lloyd (AL).
What happened
Ms B had an initial meeting with ALs adviser (the adviser) on 27 June 2019. During this 
meeting they discussed Ms Bs pension planning requirements which included setting up a 
pension plan for a limited company she was a director of. The adviser requested various 
documents from Ms B and completed a fact find setting out her (Ms Bs) circumstances and 
objectives. At the end of the meeting Ms B signed a client declaration. 
Following the initial meeting Ms B was issued with a Protection and Retirement Planning 
Report (the suitability report) which was dated 26 September 2019. Amongst other things, 
the suitability report recommended that Ms B establish a Self Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) for the transfer of her existing personal pensions. And it also recommended she 
establish a Defined Benefit (DB) Small Self Administered Scheme (SSAS) in order to make 
employer pension contributions from her limited company.
Following receipt of the report, Ms B met with the adviser to go through the contents and the 
proposals. But Ms B decided not to proceed with the recommendations as she was unsure 
about the use of third party investment managers and the additional costs this would incur. 
Ms B went on to make her own pension arrangements without using the services of an 
adviser. But AL still sent her an invoice for £5,000 on 21 April 2020 which was its Not Taken 
Up fee. It said this became chargeable following Ms Bs decision not to go ahead with the 
report detailing its recommendations and advice made.
Ms B complained. She didnt think the paperwork she was given during the meeting with the 
adviser, in particular, the declaration, made it clear she would be charged if she didnt go 
ahead with the recommendations. She said she wasnt given the opportunity to read through 
what she was asked to sign. 
AL rejected Ms Bs complaint saying it was entitled to charge for the service it provided. But 
as a gesture of goodwill, it agreed to reduce its fee by 50% so that Ms B would need to pay 
£2,500. But Ms B remained unhappy so she referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought that AL was entitled to charge for the work it did. He considered the 
paperwork made this clear to Ms B. However, he didnt think the work AL carried out met 
with its description of very complex which had an applicable fee of £5,000. But he did think 
AL had provided advice in line with its description of moderately complex work, which had a 
fee of £3,000 payable. He noted that as AL had already agreed to charge Ms B £2,500 it 
didnt need to do anything further to put things right.
Ms B disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision on the matter. In summary, she 
made the following points:
She has received advice from another adviser and wasnt charged any fees for 
essentially the same level of service.
She thought the investigator was just trying to find a middle ground rather than 
reaching a fair conclusion on the case. 
She doesnt think the investigator has shown AL had given her a proper analysis of 
her pensions. 
She thinks the suitability report only shows her information she was already aware of. 
And she thinks AL has only provided her with market standard initial assessment 
report, which she didnt think amounted to complex analysis about her situation
She maintains she hadnt been given clear information about what fees would apply 
even if she didnt go ahead with the advice. 
She did not instruct AL to take a formal pension analysis and review nor to make 
assessments on key events on her financial position nor did she receive one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that Ms B has strong feelings about this complaint. She has provided detailed 
arguments to support her case, which I confirm Ive read and carefully considered. However, 
I trust she will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point shes 
raised, but instead to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. And having 
reviewed everything, Im satisfied that the offer made by AL to resolve this matter is fair and 
reasonable. Ill explain why.
Amongst other things, the client declaration form signed by Ms B on 27 June 2019 says: I/ 
We confirm that the I am/ we are aware that should I decide not to accept the advice 
provided by Ascot Lloyd that I will be invoiced for the work undertaken. The declaration also 
had a section which said: Specify level of complexity agreed [Simple/ 
Moderately/Complex/Very Complex) for Advice not Taken Forward charge. In this section, 
the adviser handwritten note clearly says the work would be Very Complex and that the 
charge for this work would be £5,000.
I also note the declaration shows Ms B was provided with a Service and Fee 
Agreement document. This set out the applicable fees for work undertaken, but not 
proceeded with. It said, typically, the following fees would apply: £1,500 for work 
classed as Simple; £3,000 for work classed as Moderately complex; and £5,000 for 
work classed as Very complex. All in all, I think Ms B was given clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the fees that would apply for work undertaken by AL on 
her behalf even if she decided not to proceed with its recommendations.
Ms B says she didnt have a chance to read what she was agreeing to. But the suitability 
report was produced on 26 September 2019. And she signed the declaration on 27 June 
2019 which noted that she would be given a copy of the Service and Fee Agreement. I think 
this gave her adequate time to raise any concerns she may have had before AL carried out 
its work.
I appreciate Ms B decided not to proceed with the advice. And there was no obligation for 
her to do so. But I dont think this meant AL needed to waive its fees as a result of this 
decision. By the point she decided to not go ahead with the recommendations, AL had 
already carried out the work she had agreed it could do on her behalf.In terms of the work undertaken by AL, which Ms B says wasnt complex, the suitability 
report it prepared contained, at least, the following information:
Information about Ms Bs demands and needs. The adviser explained why he had 
concluded the recommended products and investments were suitable for Ms B. And 
he also explained the potential disadvantages of the transactions.
An assessment was made of Ms Bs attitude to risk following the completion of a risk 
questionnaire.
Recommendations were made about the types of pensions best suited to meet with 
Ms Bs needs. In particular, a SASS was recommended to accommodate her new 
limited company. Calculations were made about the amounts that should be paid into 
the SASS and the level of guaranteed income this would produce.
In terms of a SIPP a recommendation was made about the type of funds Ms B should 
invest in based on her attitude to risk.
An income protection policy was also recommended and an explanation was 
provided as to why this met with Ms Bs demands and needs. 
Detailed explanations were provided throughout the report as to what the 
recommended products were and the risks involved. 
So, whilst Ms B doesnt think there was any complex analysis done by AL, I think in order to 
make these recommendations, the AL adviser would have had to either do or arrange to 
have done, research and analysis to try to establish what course of action was in Ms Bs 
best interests. I can also see AL took various actions to prepare its suitability report including 
completing a fact find and a Risk Profile Report which assessed Ms Bs attitude to risk. AL 
also communicated with various third party providers including the recommended SIPP 
provider and SSAS provider as well as Ms Bs pension providers. 
Whilst Ms B thinks that the suitability report was simply a market standard report, she 
should note that what a suitability report should contain are set out in rules set by the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. Under COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 
9.4.7 it says a suitability report must, at least, contain the following:
(1)  specify, on the basis of the information obtained from the client, the 
client's demands and needs;
(2) explain why the firm has concluded that the recommended transaction is 
suitable for the client having regard to the information provided by the client;
(3) explain any possible disadvantages of the transaction for the client; and
(4) in the case of a life policy, include a personalised recommendation 
explaining why a particular life policy would best meet the clients demands 
and needs.
In my view, as shown by the summary I set out above about what was contained in Ms Bs 
suitability report, I think it broadly meets the criteria set down by the regulator in COBS. So, 
despite what Ms B says about what other advisers have told her, I do think the suitability 
report was tailored to her needs and was based on analysis of her particular situation. 
Ms B says the report simply gave her information she already knew. And to some extent this 
is clearly true. But what she didnt know was whether or not she should transfer to another 
provider and what the reasons for this were. This was the purpose of the report. 
I also note Ms Bs point about the number of SSAS providers being limited, so she doesnt 
think AL needed to do much work to identify a provider for her. But AL still needed to ensure 
the recommendations it was making to her were suitable for her circumstances which meant 
it had to research this product and decide whether her circumstances were a correct fit for it. I do, however, agree with our investigator that the categorisation of the work undertaken by 
AL as very complex doesnt fit with ALs service agreement terms where it says: A very 
complex report would be a review of a defined benefit pension scheme, trust planning or 
estate planning and inheritance tax work. Whilst the proposed SSAS was to be a defined 
benefit scheme, Ms B herself didnt have a defined benefit pension scheme that needed any 
analysis. And I think the terms clearly suggest that this was the complex aspect of the work 
that AL would be undertaking if it were to meet the criteria of very complex work.
ALs moderately complex work definition more reasonably suits the work it carried out on 
behalf of Ms B. This says: A moderately complex report would be a review of more than two 
investments or pension arrangements. The fee for this level of work is stated to be £3,000. 
As AL has offered to reduce its fee to £2,500, I think it has done enough to put things right. I 
am not making this recommendation to meet any middle ground. In my view, this is a fair 
and reasonable conclusion based on all the circumstances of this case.
On Ms Bs point about what another adviser charges, this is a legitimate business decision 
for each firm to make. I dont think what another firm charge has any relevance to whether 
AL has acted fairly or reasonably in this case.
So, whilst I know Ms B will be disappointed with this outcome, I think the offer AL has made 
to her is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. 
My final decision
Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd has already made an offer to reduce its 
fee to £2,500 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So 
my decision is that Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd should not charge 
Ms B more than this for the work it has undertaken.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman