DRN-2901943
The complaint
Ms K complains about the level of service and a declined claim from Aviva Insurance Limited 
(Aviva), under her home emergency policy. 
What happened
In December 2019 Ms K reported a leak in her roof.  Aviva sent an engineer who carried out 
a temporary repair.  The leak re-occurred in February 2020 and again Aviva sent an 
engineer who carried out a temporary repair. Ms K was advised by Aviva that she needed to 
carry out a permanent repair. 
In May 2020 Ms K called Aviva again as her roof was leaking. Aviva contacted the previous 
engineer who said that there was nothing further that he could do as Ms Ks roof needed a 
permanent repair. So, Aviva sent out another engineer. This engineer failed to attend without 
telling Ms K. But Aviva then sent another engineer. The engineer advised Ms K that she 
needed to carry out a permanent repair by replacing her roof and that it would be unlikely 
that a temporary repair would be successful. But Ms K requested that the temporary repair 
be completed anyway. Soon afterwards, that repair failed. And Ms K complained to Aviva. 
In its final response, it said there was nothing further it could do as it had on several 
occasions advised Ms K to carry out a permanent repair of her roof which she didnt do. It 
said that Ms K had reached the policy claim limit. And It fulfilled its obligations under the 
policy by carrying out the temporary repairs. So, it couldnt be held liable for any further 
damage caused. 
Ms K wasnt happy with this outcome and referred a complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and said that Aviva had carried out temporary repairs 
to keep the property as secure as possible until a permanent repair could be carried out. She 
also said that Aviva had acted outside the policy terms as the repairs after the initial repairs 
were no longer unforeseen. So, there was nothing further she could reasonable ask Aviva to 
do. 
Ms K didnt accept our investigators view. She said that Aviva had carried out poor repairs 
that werent secure. The engineers caused extra damage to hers and her neighbours 
property due to the poor repair. And Aviva cancelled an appointment without telling Ms K. 
So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Ms K, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I should also point out that I will be dealing with Ms Ks complaint from May 2020, as I 
understand that Ms K has raised another complaint into other issues, which I wont be 
dealing with here. In doing so, I think the main complaint Ms K has is that Aviva carried out a 
poor level of repair that caused further damage to her and her neighbours property. 
Ms K had a home emergency policy with Aviva that amongst other things covered her for 
emergencies that were unforeseen and sudden. The terms and conditions of the policy 
provide the following: 
provides you with assistance in the event of an emergency at your property.
We describe an emergency as an unforeseen and sudden incident which (i) causes a loss of
essential services or damage to your property; or (ii) exposes a risk to your health; or (iii) 
makes your property uninhabitable.
Having reviewed this term of the policy, I dont think that it applies to the repairs Ms K 
requested in May 2020, as prior to the request Ms K had been put on notice on a few 
occasions that she would need to have a permanent repair of her roof. 
Despite this, Aviva did attempt a further repair. I can see that on more than one occasion, it 
advised Ms K that a temporary repair would not be successful. Ms K also submitted a voice 
message in which Aviva confirmed that a permanent repair would be needed. 
The engineer who attended in May 2020, also advised that a temporary repair would not be 
suitable but attempted to repair the roof at Ms Ks request. Ms K said that that repair failed. 
But having reviewed the evidence, I can see that Avivas engineers had advised that given 
the material that Ms Ks roof was made of, a temporary repair wouldnt be successful without 
causing further damage to the roof. 
Also, Ms K refused having screws or bricks to carry out the repairs as advised by Aviva, so 
in the circumstances, I dont think its reasonable for Aviva to be held responsible when the 
temporary repairs failed. 
I understand that Ms K was clearly frustrated by the cancellation. But Aviva found another 
engineer to attend within a fair timeframe. So, I think it took reasonable steps to rectify this.  
Taking all of this into consideration, I think that Aviva met its liability under the policy by 
carrying out temporary repairs as and when Ms K requested it to do. Although those repairs 
failed, Aviva advised Ms K that this was the likely outcome and that a permanent repair 
would be needed.  
Whilst I fully appreciate that this is not the outcome that Ms K wouldve liked, and I am sorry 
to disappoint. I think Aviva has applied the policy terms fairly and I cant reasonably ask 
Aviva to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman