DRN-4021320
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society hasnt refunded him after he fell victim to 
an investment scam. Hes also unhappy with how it handled his scam claim.
Mr B is represented in his complaint but, for ease, Ill mostly just refer to him throughout.
What happened
All parties are familiar with the background to this complaint and so Ill only summarise the 
key details of what happened:
Mr B found a company online which claimed to provide a cryptocurrency investment 
service. But the company was in fact a scam operation.
After an initial investment of £300 (made using a credit card held with a different firm) 
Mr B decided to invest £3,000, following pressure and sales tactics from the 
scammers.
Mr B opened an account with a money transfer service, and a cryptocurrency 
account with another firm. Mr B opened these accounts at the direction of, and with 
the assistance of, the scammers.
Mr B then sent £3,000 from his Nationwide account to the money transfer service. 
From there he made a payment to his cryptocurrency wallet. 
The funds were then transferred away at the scammers instruction, creating the loss 
to Mr B.
Mr B originally told Nationwide hed transferred the funds himself, after refusing the 
scammer remote access. His representatives later said Mr B had allowed remote 
access and the scammers had made the various transfers.
The scam was revealed when Mr B tried to withdraw his investment and supposed 
returns. He found he was unable to do so and was told hed need to pay capital gains 
tax. Mr B contacted Nationwide to report the scam.
Nationwide delayed in completing its investigation, taking three months to provide an 
answer. This was, at least in part, down to a failure to record the scam properly when 
it was reported. Nationwide did send some updates to Mr B once it started 
investigating, but it also recognised its shortcomings here. Nationwide acknowledged 
Mr B ought to have had an answer much sooner. It offered £100 in compensation by 
way of an apology.
It didnt offer any refund of Mr Bs money, stating that the transfer out of his 
Nationwide account hadnt led to a loss. That was because funds had gone to 
another account held in Mr Bs name and then onto a cryptocurrency account, also in 
his name, and it was from there Mr Bs loss really occurred.
Nationwide said the payment wasnt of a particularly high value, was going to an 
account in Mr Bs own name, and was processed from his home computer. So it 
didnt appear as suspicious, and it wasnt stopped for further checks. 
The business to which the funds were sent (from the Nationwide account) was 
contacted to see if any money remained. But it was confirmed there was nothing left.
Mr B was unhappy with Nationwides response and so brought his complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened and didnt uphold 
the complaint. Her findings were that Nationwide had acted reasonably in allowing 
the payment, given it didnt appear unusual or suspicious, and there was nothing 
more it ought to have done.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision as Mr B didnt accept the investigators 
findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but Im unable to uphold his complaint and I find Nationwide has 
acted fairly and reasonably. I dont doubt that this cruel scam has impacted Mr B and his 
family both financially and emotionally. But I cant say that Nationwide ought to bear 
responsibility for the loss.
Mr Bs representatives have referred to Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code in its 
submissions to this service. But the provisions of the Code dont apply in this case, as Mr B 
made payments to accounts in his own name and that he was aware of. I am persuaded that 
it was Mr B that made the payments, given his initial report to Nationwide. But even if it was 
the scammers, using remote access, it seems Mr B was fully aware of what was happening 
(as far as the different transfers are concerned) and authorised each step. And so the 
position would remain the same. 
Nationwide does, however, still have responsibilities to protect customers outside of the 
CRM Code. Those responsibilities include monitoring accounts for suspicious activity and 
protecting customers from fraud.  
I then need to consider whether the activity on Mr Bs account was so unusual or suspicious 
that Nationwide ought to have overridden its obligation to process Mr Bs payment instruction 
and instead intervened to question it. 
Ive no doubt that £3,000 is a significant and distressing sum for Mr B to have lost, 
particularly to a scam. But I dont find its such a high or unusual amount  both in general 
and specific to Mr Bs account  that Nationwide ought to have been so concerned that it 
stopped the payment to question it. In reaching that finding I have considered other 
payments in and out of Mr Bs account around the time of the scam. And so I dont find 
Nationwide ought to have done more at the time the payment was being made.
I do find Nationwide ought to have acted more quickly when the scam was reported. There 
appears to be no practical reason for the claim not to have been logged when first reported. 
This will have caused Mr B unnecessary distress and inconvenience. But Im pleased to see 
Nationwide proactively recognised this and made a suitable payment of compensation. I 
make no further award to the £100 already paid.
Im satisfied the delay in logging the claim, and the corresponding delay in contacting the 
receiving bank, had no impact on the potential recovery of funds. We know the funds were 
quickly moved on from the money transfer service to Mr Bs cryptocurrency wallet, so there 
was nothing left to recover from that point. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman