DRN-3302452
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund a payment he made after 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr M wanted to hire a car. He looked on a social media platform that hes used 
previously and found a company  Ill refer to them as E. Mr M clicked a link on Es social 
media advert which took him to their website. Mr M found a car he liked and completed a 
form to reserve the car, and the company contacted him via a messaging app. 
After being sent an invoice from E for the car hire, Mr M sent a payment of £548 from his 
Lloyds account. E contacted Mr M later that day saying they hadnt received the payment 
and asking him to resend it. Mr M says this raised alarm bells, so he refused to send them 
any more money and waited 24 hours to see if the payment reached them. When he tried to 
contact E after that wait, he was unable to get hold of anyone. Mr Ms partner did some 
checks online as a result and found negative reviews for E, and Mr M realised hed been the 
victim of a scam.
Mr M contacted Lloyds and raised a fraud claim, asking them to refund him.
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Having investigated Mr Ms 
claim, Lloyds say one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Lloyds say Mr M didnt do enough checks to ensure that E was a legitimate company. They 
raised the following concerns:
Mr M searched for E on a trusted review website to see what feedback they had. 
However, he was unable to find any reviews for them.
While Mr M had used the social media platform previously and successfully hired 
cars from firms using it, hed always paid for those car hires with a debit card. 
Whereas, E was asking him to make a bank transfer which he didnt question.
E contacted Mr M via a messaging app  which suggests E wasnt a genuine firm.
When making the payment Mr M was shown a warning that under Confirmation of 
Payee (COP) the type of account he was paying couldnt be checked, as the bank it 
was held with werent signed up to COP. This shouldve caused Mr M concerns and 
resulted in him doing further checks.
After the scam, Mr M did further checks on the same review website and found 
negative reviews for E and suggestions they werent legitimate. Lloyds said if Mr M 
had done these checks prior to making the payment he wouldnt have fallen victim to 
the scam.
Mr M wasnt happy that Lloyds declined to refund him, so he brought his complaint to our 
service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. They felt Mr M hadnt done 
sufficient checks to ensure that he was dealing with a legitimate company and wasnt entitled 
to a refund under the CRM Code.
Mr M disagreed saying the website for E looked legitimate and theyd used a logo and name 
that was similar to a genuine well-known firm. He also raised a point about his partners bank 
texting or calling her when she makes irregular payments, which he felt was the case here. 
Therefore, he feels Lloyds shouldve contacted him and that intervention wouldve prevented 
him falling victim to the scam.
As Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive already said, Lloyds are signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement Code (the CRM 
Code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised 
Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances and it is 
for Lloyds to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one of 
the listed exceptions set out in the Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate 
*Further exceptions are outlined in the CRM Code however they dont apply to this case.
Lloyds say Mr M didnt have a reasonable basis for believing E was legitimate. Having 
considered everything that Mr M has told us, I agree with Lloyds for the following reasons:
Mr M says that when he initially searched for E on a trusted review website, he was 
unable to find them. I think this shouldve caused him concern about the legitimacy of 
the firm. The fact that Mr M was able to find another firm with a similar name, isnt 
sufficient to confirm the legitimacy of the firm he was using.
Also, I note that after Mr M became concerned he may have been the victim of a 
scam, he revisited the trusted review website and found negative reviews and 
warnings about E  which wouldve been available at the time he made the booking if 
hed made some extra checks. 
Mr M says that hed used the social media platform previously to successfully hire 
cars, however hed always made payment via debit card. The fact that he was being 
asked to make payment by a bank transfer, which was unlike his previous 
experience, shouldve concerned Mr M.
The fact that E used a similar name and logo to a genuine firm, isnt sufficient for    
Mr M to assume that the two companies are related or linked. And shouldnt have 
given Mr M confidence in Es legitimacy.The fact that E communicated with Mr M via a messaging app was unusual for a 
genuine business and should have caused him concern. Also, the invoice Mr M 
received showed Es name and doesnt suggest that E is affiliated with the genuine 
well-known firm Mr M found on the review website.
Lloyds raised a point regarding Confirmation of Payee (COP), saying Mr M was shown a 
warning that the account he was paying couldnt be checked, as the bank it was held with 
werent signed up to COP. However, this is different to a warning that the account name 
doesnt match the payee details. So, in this case, it wouldnt affect whether I think Mr M had 
a reasonable basis for belief.
Taking all of these factors into account, I think there were enough warning signs that Mr M 
shouldve done further checks. And, if he had, I think its most likely he wouldve realised that 
E wasnt a legitimate company. On that basis, Im not satisfied that Mr M had a reasonable 
basis for believing he was paying a legitimate firm. 
But I have also considered whether Lloyds met the standard set for them under the CRM 
Code.
Should Lloyds have done more to prevent the payment from being made?
The CRM Code requires Lloyds to take reasonable steps to protect their customers from 
APP scams. This includes being on the lookout for, and helping to prevent, payments that 
could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. Where they identify potential scam risks, 
Lloyds are required to provide effective warnings. So, Ive considered whether the payments 
Mr M made, were so unusual or out of character that I think Lloyds shouldve been 
concerned that Mr M mayve been the victim of a scam and intervened.
In this case, Mr M made a single payment for just under £550. Having considered the size of 
the payment, Mr Ms previous account use and the fact that it was a single payment as 
opposed to a series of payments  Im not persuaded in this case that Lloyds shouldve 
identified the payment as potentially suspicious. On that basis, I wouldnt have expected 
Lloyds to have issued a warning or taken steps to discuss the payment with Mr M before 
following his payment instructions. Im satisfied that in this case Lloyds met their obligations 
under the CRM Code, and therefore I cant fairly ask them to refund Mr M.
Could Lloyds have recovered the funds for Mr M?
From what Ive seen Mr M reported the fraud to Lloyds on the 16 April 2021, and Lloyds 
contacted the receiving bank the same day to report the scam and try and recover any funds 
still in the beneficiarys account. Lloyds didnt receive a response initially and had to chase 
the receiving bank several times before being told that no funds were recoverable. Based on 
this Im satisfied that Lloyds contacted the receiving bank in a timely manner, but 
unfortunately were unable to recover any funds for Mr M  so I cant fairly ask them to take 
any further action.
Having considered everything very carefully, Im not satisfied that I can fairly ask Lloyds to 
refund Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman