DRN-4160466
The complaint
Mr H complains about the high interest rate applied to his buy to let mortgage with The 
Mortgage Works (UK) Plc. He wants a fair interest rate while he sells the property. He says 
TMW didnt offer support despite knowing about his mental health issues.
What happened
Mr Hs fixed interest rate product was due to expire at the end of May 2022. He contacted 
TMW in April 2022 and it sent an offer for a five-year product. Mr H didnt take out the 
product as hed decided to sell the property. 
Mr H contacted TMW in July 2022 as he was struggling with the monthly payments which 
increased significantly after his product ended. TMW says it told Mr H all available interest 
rate products have an early repayment charge (ERC) and the shortest term it could offer was 
a one-year product.
Mr H says he was told the shortest term product available to him was two years. He says 
TMW didnt tell him until late 2022 that a one-year product was available. Mr H says TMWs 
support team offered no help. He says TMW failed to respond to his complaint for several 
months, increasing his stress and financial loss. Mr H took out a one-year product in 
December 2022. 
TMW says Mr H didnt tell it about his mental health problems until mid-October 2022. It 
accepts that it should have recorded Mr Hs complaint about the standard mortgage rate in 
July 2022, and responded more quickly when he complained again in October 2022. It 
offered £200 compensation for this.
Our investigator said TMW should pay compensation of £500 (in total) to recognise the 
effect of its delays on Mr H due to his mental health issues. TMW agreed. Mr H didnt agree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr H provided evidence of his mental health issues to us. Im sorry for everything hes 
dealing with.
Mr H contacted TMW in January 2022. He said he was looking to sell the property and 
asked whether there was an ERC. TMW said his product would end on 31 May 2022. After 
this hed be on the standard mortgage rate and theyd be no ERC. 
Mr H contacted TMW in April to discuss taking out a new product. TMW sent a product offer 
for a five-year fixed interest rate product. Mr H told TMW he wouldnt take out the product as 
hed decided to sell the property.
Mr Hs fixed rate product expired at the end of May 2022. TMW applied its standard 
mortgage rate after this, in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr Hs mortgage. 
Mr H called TMW in early July 2022 to complain about his monthly payments going up. TMW 
said his product had expired and he was on the standard mortgage rate. It said he could 
take out a new product. Mr H said he was selling the property and didnt want to be tied in. 
TMW said all products had early repayment charges and the shortest term it could offer was 
one year. I understand Mr Hs recollection of this discussion is different. But Ive listened 
carefully to a recording of this call and TMW told him a one-year product was available.
Mr H called TMW at the end of September 2022 to complain about increases in the interest 
rate and his monthly payments, which he was struggling with. TMW said Mr H could take out 
a new product and the shortest terms were for one or possibly two years. Mr H made 
another complaint in October 2022.
Mr H says when he was finally offered a one-year deal this came with an arrangement fee of 
almost £7,000. He decided to take out the product.
Mr H has said that his main complaint is about the way TMW dealt with his complaint. Mr H 
said each month that TMW failed to respond to his complaint he was taking a financial hit. 
Interest rates increased between mid and late 2022. Mr Hs monthly payments increased 
from about £450 to about £1,500 in June 2022 and up to about £2,000 in December 2022.
I should say that complaint handling isnt itself a regulated activity, which means its not 
something we can always look into. I can look into how a complaint was dealt with if it 
impacted on the underlying problem being sorted out. 
TMW says it should have treated Mr Hs call in July 2022 as a complaint. TMW provided a 
final response to Mr Hs complaints in December 2022. However, I dont think this delay is 
the cause of Mr Hs increased mortgage costs.
Mr Hs monthly payments increased because his product expired, leaving him on the 
standard mortgage rate at a time when interest rates were increasing. Mr H told TMW he 
hoped to sell the property, but the sale had fallen through. Pending the sale, the property 
wasnt tenanted. This unfortunate set of circumstances meant Mr H had larger monthly 
mortgage payments without rental income. This wasnt due to an error by TMW.
Mr H says he wanted to be offered a fair and decent rate. Mr H did have the option to take 
out a new product, choosing from the range of products offered by TMW to its customers. 
Mr H had to decide whether to take out a new product and risk paying an ERC if the property 
was sold or continue with the higher monthly payments. No doubt this was a difficult 
decision. I need to bear in mind that letting property is a business, and TMW was entitled to 
expect Mr H to make what is effectively a business decision. The information TMW gave 
Mr H in July 2022 was correct. It said he could access a lower rate by taking out a new 
product, and the shortest available term was one year. Mr H didnt have to wait for the 
outcome of his complaint before deciding what to do. 
I dont think the delay in TMW responding to Mr Hs complaint caused him financial loss. But 
it did add to his anxiety and stress. TMW failed to record Mr Hs call in July 2022 as a 
complaint, and it took too long to respond when it did record a complaint. TMW was aware of 
Mr Hs mental health problems by mid-October 2022. This doesnt mean that TMW had to 
offer Mr H a lower interest rate  as I said letting property is a business. But once aware of Mr Hs mental health issues, TMW ought to have considered the effect on him of any 
significant delays in responding to his complaints. TMW agreed to pay £500 compensation 
for the distress this caused. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc should pay £500 (in total) to Mr H. It can 
deduct any amount already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman