DRN-3592601
The complaint
Mrs S complains through her representative that AvantCredit of UK, LLC irresponsibly lent 
her money on a high cost loan which she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
AvantCredit provided Mrs S with a loan of £2,000 on 21 September 2016 payable over 36 
months at the monthly rate of around £97. 
Mrs S got into difficulties over the payments and made an arrangement for lower payments 
as part of a debt repayment plan in January 2017. She advises that she lost her job in March 
2018 and couldnt afford the repayments during the course of the loan. She believes the loan 
was sold on to a third party. She complained to AvantCredit that the loan was unaffordable.
AvantCredit said it accrued out the normal verification checks, including verifying Mrs Ss 
income and carrying out a credit check. It also assessed her monthly living expenses which 
included her mortgage payment. It assessed the loan as being affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman our adjudicator said that the checks AvantCredit 
carried out showed that Mrs Ss total monthly credit repayments represented a significant 
proportion of her income. In those circumstances, there was a significant risk that Mrs S 
wouldnt have been able to meet her existing commitments without having to borrow again. 
So, she thought it was unlikely Mrs S wouldve been able to sustainably meet her 
repayments for the loan.  
AvantCredit disagreed, particularly concerning the remedy proposed which could have 
required it to write off part of the capital as well as refunding interest.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs 
S would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs S would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Ss ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that AvantCredit had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mrs S undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
The loan was supposed to be for consolidation of existing loans. Mrs S had 13 such loans, 
two of which were in default and five delinquent (i.e. missing payments). I have no 
information as to which of the loans were being paid off, and Avant Credit doesnt appear to 
have paid off those loans before releasing any balance to Mrs S. So it took the risk that 
Mrs S wouldnt pay them off. However Mrs S has been unable to produce bank statements 
despite our adjudicator requesting them. So I think it fair to assume that Mrs S would be 
paying off the delinquent loans and a number of other small loans, since they had only one 
or two payments due to repay them. 
Mrs S also had six credit cards two of which were defaulted, with total balances of £9,280. 
As the defaulted loans and credit cards would still be payable, realistically its reasonable to 
assume that she would need to pay 5% every month of the then balances on defaulted loans 
and all her credit cards, and the normal instalments due on the other loans. She also had a 
bank overdraft of £2,000. As AvantCredit hasnt sent through copy of the credit report it 
obtained, I have had to rely on its figures in its responses to us and Mrs S. With the loans 
paid off she would still have had a liability of around £660 a month for her credit 
commitments. On an assessed income of £2,200, with the new loam instalment she would 
still be spending about 35% of her income on credit commitments  a high figure and an 
indication of problems with affordability.
Based on the figures given in her application, Mrs Ss living expenses (including a mortgage) were around £1,150 a month, leaving her with a possible disposable income of around £290 
a month after paying the loan instalment. Whilst on the face of it this may look affordable its 
not just the pounds and pence we look at, I think there were very clear indications that Mrs S 
was struggling. With the high number of active short term loans, and credit cards coupled 
with her overdraft and the high level of credit commitments I think it was likely that she would 
be unable to sustain the payments for this loan. So whilst I think AvantCredit carried out 
proportionate checks, the checks in my view showed the loan to be unaffordable for Mrs S. 
So I dont think AvantCredit made a fair lending decision.
Putting things right
Mrs S has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think AvantCredit should refund all interest 
and charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. 
Treat any payments made by Mrs S as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Mrs S has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance, AvantCredit should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mrs S
If AvantCredit has sold the outstanding debt to a third-party it should do what it can 
to buy it back - if it cant, it cant deduct any outstanding balance from the redress 
and it then it needs to work with the third-party to bring about the steps above. 
Remove any adverse information where appropriate about the loan from Mrs Ss 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AvantCredit Limited to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman