DRN-2400840
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy taken out in 2002 in connection with a
mortgage.
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 22 October 2020 and said that I intended 
to uphold it. Ive summarised my provisional findings below:
I decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint because Halifax recommended the 
policy to them but I didnt think it was suitable. 
Mr W had said throughout his complaint that he was involved in a car accident a few 
months before he bought the policy. Hed provided details of the injuries he suffered, 
and the treatment he received before he was able to return to work.
Halifax had said that the policy was sold as a stand alone policy. From what Id seen 
and been told, I didnt think there was enough evidence for me to safely say that the 
policy was sold at the same time as Mr and Mrs Ws original mortgage, or any 
subsequent borrowing.
The terms of the policy say:
If you do not apply for Mortgage Repayments Cover at the same time as:
-You apply for your mortgage; or
-You apply for a further advance; or
-You have a Mortgage Review; or
-We conduct a yearly plan review
then the following conditions will apply to your plan:
.
Disability cover will not apply to any pre-existing conditions.
Pre-existing condition is defined as:

-A condition which has been diagnosed by, or for which treatment and/or advice 
has been suggested by a registered medical practitioner during the 12 month 
period before the start date which recurs within 12 months of the start date; or
-A condition whether diagnosed or not for which significant and substantive
symptoms were experienced or for which investigations have been commenced 
by a registered medical practitioner during the 12 month period before the start 
date which recurs within 12 months of the start date; or
-A chronic or continuing disease you were aware of at the start date which
recurs within 12 months of the start date.
Mr W had said that at the time he bought the policy he was still regularly seeing his 
doctor following the car accident. And given the relatively short space of time since 
the accident, and the nature of Mr Ws injuries, I thought it wouldve been reasonable 
for Halifax to conclude that one or more of his conditions might recur during the first 
12 months of the policy.
And I considered it was possible the policy wording meant any condition that recurred 
during the first 12 months wouldnt be covered for the remainder of the policy term  
irrespective of when the condition recurred again.
Halifaxs records suggested there were some questions asked about Mr and Mrs Ws 
health before they took out the policy. But from the information supplied, I couldnt 
safely say that the discussion meant Halifax identified the exclusion that couldve 
affected Mr W, and advised him that he might not be covered by the policy if he had 
to take time off work in connection with conditions that recurred within the first twelve 
months.
So I didnt think Halifaxs recommendation to take the policy was suitable.
Mr and Mrs W responded to say that they were willing to accept my provisional findings. But 
they said they were sold life cover and critical illness benefit within the Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan policy (which included the PPI). So they considered the premiums for the 
whole policy should be refunded, rather than just the PPI element. 
They also said they would like Halifax to provide a tax deduction certificate in connection 
with the suggested redress.
Halifax didnt make any further representations in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think it most likely to
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive noted what Mr and Mrs W have said about the other products that were sold alongside 
the PPI as part of the Total Mortgage Protection Plan policy. But those products had different 
features to the PPI. As this complaint is about the mis-sale of PPI, its not possible for me to 
make an automatic award for the other products, without proper consideration of those 
features and the circumstances of the sale.
If Mr and Mrs W consider those products were mis-sold they will need to raise a separate complaint with Halifax. If theyre not happy with the banks response they may be able to 
refer it to this service for further consideration.
In the absence of any further evidence in response to my provisional findings, I remain of the 
view that the complaint should be upheld in line with my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Halifax should put Mr and Mrs W in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI.
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Halifax should:
- Pay Mr and Mrs W the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
- Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year.
- If Mr and Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Halifax can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must give
Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs W in line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman