DRN-2906992
The complaint
 Mr R complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) charged him for 
a missing key and handbook when he returned his car. 
What happened
 Mr Rs finance agreement was due to come to an end and in early March 2020 and a 
collection date was arranged with the agents, which I will call B, who were acting on behalf 
of MBFS. Mr R says he called B before this date to say he didnt have the second key to 
hand and asked if it could be returned later. He says this was agreed without hesitation and 
no deadline was set.
The car was collected on 12 March and at the time Mr R couldnt find the handbook. He says 
the agent said it could be returned at a later date. The two missing items were returned on 
24th March by recorded delivery.
On 21 March MBFS sent Mr R an invoice for £475.75 to cover the missing key and 
handbook. He complained and MBFS said the missing items had been replaced and under 
his agreement he was responsible for ensuring the required items were available for 
collection on 12 March.
As MBFS rejected his complaint he brought the matter to this service. It was considered by 
one of our investigators who initially recommended it be upheld. He did so on the basis that 
MBFS had not incurred any additional cost rather than any other basis. However, MBFS 
provided additional evidence to show that the single key returned with the car had been 
cancelled on 24 March for security reasons and so it had incurred the cost of replacements. 
It also had ordered a new handbook.
Our investigator concluded that the charge for the key was fair but suggested the charge for 
the handbook be written off. Neither party agreed. 
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I said I had given much thought to this complaint and I have concluded that it should be 
upheld. I explained why.
I said much had been made of what costs were incurred by MBFS and while I understood 
why this had been the focus of the matter, I didnt believe it was central to the complaint 
made by Mr R.
He had said that he was told by the agents acting for MBFS that the second key and 
handbook could be returned later. This was not something that he was told at the time of
collection, but in a phone call he made beforehand to arrange the collection. As such, I 
considered it carried more weight than a possible off the cuff remark by a driver.
I noted he had maintained this position from the beginning of his complaint and in his email, 
dated 29 April 2020 he suggested that the call records of the agent would confirm his claim. I 
found him to be both credible and consistent in his testimony. He has said that the agent 
should not have ordered replacements given it had agreed that these be supplied by him 
later.
He sent the missing items without delay and in the circumstances, I found it hard to conclude 
that he should be penalised. I believed he did what he was told was acceptable by the agent 
which represented MBFS.
I appreciated the agreement states that the items should be present when the car was 
collected and if one looks at that alone than I would find it difficult to uphold this complaint.
But I considered these terms and conditions were overridden by the agent when it told him 
he could return the items later.
I also noted that it was open to Mr R to have delayed collection of the car in order to arrange 
for the missing items were available, but after being reassured that he could return them 
later he went ahead with the earlier collection date.
I said if MBFS could produce evidence to show Mr Rs claim about the contents of the call 
were incorrect I would be happy to change my view, but as things stood, I was minded to 
uphold this complaint.
Mr R agreed with my conclusions and MBFS sent in copies of two call recordings in support 
of its case
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to the two recordings and they support Mr Rs version of events. The first was 
made by the agent during which the collection and inspection date was arranged. The call 
handler was fairly abrupt, but he did explain what was required, including the need for Mr R 
to produce two sets of keys and the handbook, amongst other things. 
The second took place the following day when Mr R called and explained the second set of 
keys were held by his wife and she was away. He asked if he could send them on to MBFS 
after the car was collected. He was told to just forward them on. He was not told that the 
keys had to be present at the time of collection. There was no reference to the handbook.
I am satisfied that Mr R relied on what he was told by the agent that he could send the keys 
on later and it follows that it was reasonable for him to presume the same would apply to the 
hand book. He was not told he would be charged and it is clear he would have delayed 
collection had he known of the potential charges.
It is regrettable that MBFS didnt obtain the call records before since this could have settled 
the matter over a year ago
Putting things right
 I consider MBFS should compensate Mr R accordingly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to forgo the charges for the key and handbook. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman