DRN-1671971
 
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) handled his claim under 
his HomeCare Central Heating Cover.  
What happened
Mr B had a central heating fault which was covered by his HomeCare insurance. However, 
hes unhappy with the way BG handled his claim. He says BG gave him conflicting 
information about access to the flue and whether or not his central heating needed a 
powerflush. He also says he didnt receive payment to cover the cost of repairing the fault 
and BG didnt reply to his written contact. To resolve his complaint, Mr B wanted BG to pay 
for the repair, to respond fully to each of his questions, and to compensate him for the 
inconvenience and distress he experienced in raising his complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He explained that engineers work within the 
Gas Safety Regulations and Health and Safety guidelines and engineers can decide whether 
to remove an obstruction to the flue to allow for inspection.  Our investigator noted that BG 
explained this to Mr B during a previous inspection visit and he didnt think BG had done 
anything wrong here.
Mr B didnt think his central heating needed a powerflush so our investigator looked at how 
BG dealt with that matter. He felt it was fair for BG to rely on the engineer reports but noted 
that it decided not to enforce the policy exclusion clause. The exclusion clause allows BG to 
reject a claim for central heating faults which happened after it recommended a Powerflush. 
Because BG wasnt enforcing the clause, our investigator didnt think it needed to do any 
more.
Our investigator looked at whether BG sent Mr B £240 to cover the cost of repairs to his 
heating and found that it had. However, it told our investigator the cheque hadnt been 
cashed so BG issued it again. He felt that BG shouldnt be held responsible for postal failure 
and as Mr B received the cheque during the investigation into his complaint, our investigator 
felt this matter was resolved.
BG didnt respond to Mr Bs communications after it sent him the final response letter. Also, 
it didnt respond to each of the points he raised. Our investigator explained that the final 
response letter tells Mr B that BG has concluded its investigation and it hasnt got any more 
to add to the matter. Its not uncommon for businesses to stop responding after sending the 
final response letter but customers still have the choice of using our service. BG directed Mr 
B to us so our investigator felt it had acted fairly. 
Our investigator acknowledged Mr Bs further request for compensation for the time and 
trouble taken to raise his complaint. He explained that theres always some inconvenience 
when raising a complaint but our service doesnt make awards for the time taken. Our 
investigator felt that BG acted fairly by paying for a third party engineer to fix the heating 
when it was a service it wouldve carried out. He considered this sufficient goodwill. Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view. He felt that BG should respond to each of his 
questions and pay him compensation for the inconvenience of raising a complaint. 
The complaint is now with me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I can understand that Mr B will be disappointed by my decision, I havent upheld 
his complaint.
Firstly, I should explain that my role is to look at how BG handled Mr Bs claim as a whole. 
My role isnt to respond to each and every question but I will explain how Ive reached my 
decision on the issues of his complaint.
Mr B doesnt think its reasonable for BGs engineers to say they couldnt access the flue. He 
described how it could be accessed and says hes prepared to move the small obstructions 
himself, despite his age. Ive no reason to doubt what Mr B says about the ease of clearing 
the obstruction. However, it doesnt change the fact that BGs engineers have the right to 
use their judgement on whether gaining access for a visual inspection falls within their 
working guidelines. So, regardless of how small it may be, Mr B confirmed access is 
obstructed and Im satisfied BGs engineers acted reasonably by not moving it. 
I empathise with Mr Bs frustration about the matter of the powerflush. He has two reports, 
including one from BG, saying his central heating system doesnt need a powerflush. BG 
says it does. I think the key issues here are, firstly, that BG gave conflicting advice, likely 
causing a lack of trust in its expert opinion. And, secondly, the accuracy of the reports has 
an impact on the level of cover Mr B will retain under his HomeCare policy. The evidence is 
clear on the issue of the powerflush reports. Even without Mr Bs third party report, BG itself 
reported to him that he didnt need a powerflush and then reported that he did. So its not 
surprising that Mr B is concerned about this matter. 
This leads on to the second issue, which is the impact on his cover if he did need a 
powerflush. If Mr B didnt have a powerflush done after being advised to, the exclusion 
clause in his policy would come into force and he wouldnt be covered for damage caused by 
sludge in his central heating system. The exclusion clause states whats not covered:
Damage caused by limescale, sludge or other debris  if weve told you before that you 
need to carry out repairs, improvements or a British Gas Powerflush, or a similar process, 
but you havent done so
So, for Mr B, its important to have the correct advice recorded. Unfortunately, as the reports 
are conflicting I cant be sure what the correct advice is. 
In this case, BG decided not to enforce the exclusion clause so Mr Bs policy cover remains 
intact. I think that was the right thing to do given the lack of certainty around the accuracy of 
the reports. I know Mr B is concerned that this position is only temporary but with this type of 
policy that will always be the case. The policy covers damage to the central heating 
providing Mr B acts on any advice to maintain it. If he needs to report a fault in the future I 
would expect BG to attend and provide an accurate report. If the report says a powerflush is 
needed then the exclusion clause would come into force. If BG reports that a powerflush isnt 
needed then theres no reason for it to enforce the exclusion clause. In summary, I am satisfied that BG provided a reasonable resolution to the lack of certainty around the need 
for a powerflush and put Mr B back in a position as if the matter had never happened. 
Mr Bs HomeCare policy covered the central heating fault but he had a third party complete 
the repair. BG agreed to cover the cost. I see that Mr B didnt receive the cheque but I also 
see that BG issued it. Its not clear what happened to the cheque but it appears that nether 
party was responsible for this issue. BG reissued the cheque and Mr B received it. Im 
satisfied that this matter is resolved.
I have thought about whether or not it was fair that BG didnt respond to Mr Bs 
communication. At the point BG stopped responding, it had done everything it could to fix the 
issues of complaint. It confirmed this in its final response letter to Mr B and explained that if 
he didnt agree he had the option to use our service. If BG had continued to respond to Mr B 
after sending a letter saying itd done all it could, I think it wouldve been misleading and 
caused further frustration for him. I realise Mr B may not agree, but Im satisfied that BG 
followed the process fairly. 
Finally, Ive noted Mr Bs requested for compensation for the time hes taken to raise his 
complaint. I understand that hes spent a lot of time dealing with this matter but I dont think 
BGs actions caused any unnecessary delays. Our service is here to help when two parties 
cant agree, and BG directed Mr B to our service. I dont think compensation is necessary.
In summary, Im satisfied that BG addressed Mr Bs concerns fairly and took appropriate 
action to resolve the issues of his complaint. I dont think it needs to do any more.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman