DRN-3309776
The complaint
Mr K complained because Lloyds Bank PLC refused to refund him for transactions which he 
said he didnt make.
What happened
On 16 June 2020, mobile banking was registered on Mr Ks Lloyds account. The same day, 
a £25,000 Faster Payment was attempted from the account. Lloyds systems blocked the 
payment for security reasons, and blocked mobile banking. Lloyds sent calls through its 
phone security check to the phone number which had been registered on the account. Mr K 
confirmed the payment was genuine. He also rang Lloyds. He answered the advisers 
questions about the £25,000, and said the payment was genuine and the money was going 
to a friend with whom he was opening a business. Mr K was asked to go into a branch with 
photo ID to sort out the payment. He asked for online banking to be unblocked, but Lloyds 
told Mr K it couldnt do that until he went into the branch.
Mr K went into a branch on 19 June with photo ID as requested, and he again confirmed the 
£25,000 payment was genuine. He said he was setting up a business with someone else. Mr 
K told the branch that hed allowed a different person, whom Ill call Ms C, to set up internet 
banking for him.
Lloyds unblocked the account, and reinstated the internet banking. The mobile app was then 
used to make four payments, and two transfers from another of Mr Ks accounts. These 
totalled £22,770.
On 20 June, Mr K, with someone helping him on the phone, rang Lloyds to say that 
someone had taken money out of his account. The adviser asked who was helping Mr K, 
and he said his partner. Mr Ks evidence was confused, and he said different things at 
different times, including that he did, and didnt, recognise the £25,000 transaction. The 
adviser pointed out that Mr K had gone into the branch the previous day and had confirmed 
that that payment Lloyds had stopped was genuine. Mr K and his partner said that Ms C had 
helped set up internet banking, and shed have had access to his phone details. Ms Cs 
phone also had the app for Mr Ks Lloyds account. The adviser told Mr K that by allowing a 
third party to register the mobile app on her phone, and register her fingerprint, thus 
accessing his bank account, Mr K was authorising Ms C to access his bank account.
The adviser asked Mr K why hed gone into the branch to confirm that the £25,000 payment 
was genuine, when he now said it wasnt. Mr K said hed gone to unlock his card. But the 
adviser explained that Lloyds hadnt blocked Mr Ks card  it had blocked online banking, 
which it had unblocked after Mr K went into the branch. Mr K said Ms C had used her own 
phone, and also said shed talked him through what to do on his own phone. The adviser 
told Mr K that Lloyds wouldnt accept this as a  fraud claim.
Mr K complained.
In its final response, Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ks claim for a refund for the four June 
transactions totalling £22,770. It explained that Mr K had told Lloyds he was opening a 
business with someone he knew, and that Ms C was helping him set up online banking to 
make a payment to assist with this. Mr K knew of this, and knew she was using his phone. 
He also knew about the £25,000 payment which Lloyds had flagged for security, and hed 
gone to a branch with photo ID to confirm that this had been genuine. The four payments 
totalling £22,770 had then been made using a mobile app registered on a device which 
didnt belong to Mr K.
Lloyds also pointed out that the information Mr K provided on his call was conflicting  both 
about whether the £25,000 payment had been genuine, and about whether hed allowed Ms 
C to set up internet banking. So Lloyds said the transactions were made possible because 
Mr K had allowed a third party to access his account.
Mr K wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. She explained that a customer can be liable 
for transactions carried out by a third party, if theyve given their details to the third party to 
use. That applies even if the third party has then gone on to make more transactions than 
the original one requested. So the investigator said that Mr K had authorised and consented 
to the payments, because hed allowed Ms C to have access to his accounts.
Mr K didnt agree. He said he was really disappointed with the outcome. He said he hadnt 
given consent, and hed never had any online banking details sent out to him at his address. 
He also said hed never spoken to anyone at Lloyds, either by phone or in the branch, to say 
the account could be unlocked, nor that a third party could access his account, or access the 
£25,000. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr K feels very strongly about what happened. Its understandable thats 
hes very upset, especially when his Lloyds accounts were nearly emptied as a result of the 
various transactions. But my role is to look at whether Lloyds acted in line with its 
responsibilities under the payments regulations  in other words, whether Lloyds did 
anything wrong here.
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in June 2020 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Lloyds) must show the transaction 
was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Lloyds has provided the technical 
evidence to show that the disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations then say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them.
But Mr K may have given someone else authority to carry out transactions on his behalf, and 
this would mean he would be liable for them, even if he didnt physically make them himself 
or give his explicit authority for each individual transaction..
That means that Lloyds can hold Mr K liable for any transactions that happened because he 
gave someone authority to act on his behalf. 
This is known as apparent authority and if a payer (here Mr K) has enabled the use of their 
payment instruments by a third party (here Ms C), so that it looks to the bank like a 
transaction has been authorised by the payer, then a payment can be considered authorised 
for the purpose of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and a bank can hold a payer 
liable.
What this means for Mr Ks complaint
Ive listened to the call recordings between Mr K and Lloyds, and in particular the one on 20 
June 2020 where he disputed the transactions. Its fair to say Mr Ks evidence on that call 
isnt at all consistent. He said different things at different times, not only about the £25,000 
payment but also about Ms C and what she did.
So Ive looked at the factual evidence from phone recordings and computer records. This 
shows that when Lloyds blocked the first £25,000 payment for security reasons, Mr K 
confirmed on the phone that this was genuine  and asked for online banking to be 
unblocked. Lloyds refused to do this on the basis of a phone call, and said he had to go to a 
branch with photo ID. Mr K did this, and as a result the internet banking was unblocked. It 
was this which allowed the later disputed transactions to go through.
Mr K has said different things at different times about Ms Cs help. It seems likely that she 
was an employee or associate of the person with whom Mr K said he was going into 
business. But the key point is that Mr K said that, because he wasnt good with technology, 
Ms C had set up online banking for him. And he allowed Ms C to set up the mobile app on 
her own phone, with fingerprint login access to her phone. 
Lloyds has a phone security check system, which involves a phone call to the customer. This 
was used when the mobile app was set up on Ms Cs phone. I can see that Lloyds security 
system did ring Mr Cs phone  the number he gave to this service when he contacted us. 
Customers then have to key into the phone a four digit code which appears on their online 
banking screen. Mr Ks phone and online banking were used to pass this security test. This 
authorised the setting up on the mobile app on Ms Cs phone. So this means that, by 
allowing Ms C to carry out these security checks on his devices, which then set up the 
mobile app on her phone, Mr K was consenting to her acting on his behalf, in the 
terminology of the regulations.
The computer records also show that it was Ms Cs mobile app which was used to set up, 
then make, the four disputed transactions totalling £22,770.
So it looks to me that Mr K has enabled Ms C to use his payment instrument (in the 
terminology of the regulations). This isnt limited to just what the account owner originally 
asked the person acting with their authority to do  here, to set up internet banking for Mr K. 
Customers are responsible for keeping all their account information and security details 
secure. And if a customer has allowed a third party to appear as if they have authority to 
make payment transactions, the regulations explain that its fair for the bank to hold them 
liable for them.
Here, I think its fair to say that Mr K  has given Lloyds and this service confusing and, at 
times, contradictory accounts of what happened here.  But I consider its more likely than not 
that he did allow Ms C to access his account and secure information. In the light of that, Ms 
C was acting on Mr Ks behalf, regardless of the fact he later said he didnt know about the withdrawals. So Mr K was liable for what Ms C did. And this means that Lloyds doesnt have 
to refund Mr K for the disputed transactions. 
I do understand that Mr K is upset that he should be liable for four transactions which he said 
he didnt know about, and didnt want to happen. But under the payment regulations, Lloyds 
doesnt have to refund Mr K for the transactions he said he didnt authorise  because Mr K 
allowed the third party to access his account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman