DRN-4460056
The complaint
Mr M complained that he paid a large lump sum into his mortgage offset savings account 
with Yorkshire Building Society trading as Chelsea Building Society, but it didnt reduce his 
monthly mortgage payments right away. Mr M said this breached the terms of his mortgage.
What happened
On 20 October 2022, Mr M paid £25,000 into his offset mortgage savings account with 
Chelsea. That offset amount represented more than a quarter of what Mr M owed on his 
mortgage at the time. So Mr M said he expected his monthly mortgage payments to be 
reduced, with immediate effect. But his November payment was unchanged. Mr M said he 
contacted the call centre, but that didnt change things, so he complained.
Mr M said he wanted Chelsea to backdate his payment, so it took effect from 20 October
2022, and he wanted Chelsea to refund the interest hed overpaid on his monthly payments
since then. He also wanted it to pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience this
had caused him. But he said that by February 2023, Chelsea was still charging him the
same amount each month. His payments werent reduced until March 2023.
Chelsea didnt think it had made a mistake over Mr Ms payments. It said it only recalculates
the monthly mortgage payment on Mr Ms account once a year, unless there are events on
the account that dictate otherwise, or unless Mr M asks it to recalculate. And Chelsea said
Mr M would be aware of this, because hed made an overpayment in 2017, and made the
same complaint then when his mortgage payments werent reworked right away.
Mr M had asked for his payment to be taken into account from 20 October 2022, and
Chelsea said it would do that for him. But it said it had already completed the annual review
process on his mortgage, so hed shortly be receiving a new mortgage statement, with a new
monthly payment for the year ahead.
Chelsea said it did accept it had caused some inconvenience when Mr M called to complain,
because his call was cut off. So it paid him £25 to say sorry for that.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Chelseas Guide to
your Offset Options set out that Mr M would have to contact Chelsea, if he wanted his
monthly repayments recalculated right away. So she didnt think Chelsea made a mistake
when it didnt adjust the mortgage repayment immediately. And our investigator noted that
Mr M was told the same in 2017, when he made an overpayment then.
Our investigator thought Chelsea was waiting to hear if Mr M wanted it to backdate the
interest for the offset payment made on 20 October 2022. It had since confirmed this had
been actioned, and it owed Mr M £14.76. It would send Mr M a cheque. She didnt think
Chelsea had to do any more.
Mr M disagreed. He said the document our investigator sent, titled A Guide to Your Offset
Options was produced in January 2020. Mr M said hed never seen this before. He took his
mortgage out in 2012, and said we ought to consider the document he was given then, titled
How your mortgage works. He said this document set out that to operate a mortgage with
lower monthly payments, he needed to register a net payment. And Mr M said he registered
a net payment in October 2022, when he paid £25,000 into his offset savings. Mr M said the
payment he made should have reduced his monthly payments from November 2022. He
said there was nothing in the literature he was given in July 2012 to say he had to tell
Chelsea hed made a payment and to ask for a recalculation.
Mr M said the 2012 documentation also said that a large payment into his savings account
was a recalculation event as set out in those terms, and ought to have automatically
triggered a reworking of his monthly payments.
Mr M said Chelsea had offered to backdate the interest against your mortgage account to
reflect the payment made to your Offset savings account on 20 October 2022 and
recalculate your monthly payment. But he said it didnt recalculate his payments, or pay
back the interest he felt hed been overcharged since.
Mr M said that if Chelsea did this backdating and recalculation, it would certainly owe him
considerably more than the £14.76 which it had offered, and he set out his workings for what
he thought Chelsea owed him. Mr M wanted Chelsea to send through its calculations to our
service, and he then wanted us to check them for him. Mr M also still thought he should be
paid compensation, for the trouble hed been put to in making this complaint.
This case then came to me for a final decision. And I then reached my provisional decision 
on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint, but for slightly different 
reasons to our investigator. Because of that, this decision will be provisional, and Ill give 
both sides a chance to comment before I make a final decision.
I think it might help if I summarise the arguments of both sides at the outset. So, in 
summary, Mr M says when he makes a payment into his offset savings account, 
Chelsea should start offsetting that payment against his mortgage straight away, and he 
should be able to see the effect of this right away, with a reduction in his monthly 
payments. He thinks that should all be done as one action, and without him needing to 
contact Chelsea about this.
But Chelsea says its not one action. Its two. Chelsea has told us it does start offsetting 
Mr Ms payment against his mortgage right away. But because of how Chelsea works 
out payments, averaging them over a year, that wont start to show in Mr Ms monthly 
payments until later. If Mr M wants this to happen faster, he has to ask Chelsea to 
recalculate his monthly payments.
Ill now explain my findings in detail.
When Mr M wrote to disagree with our investigators view, he said he had never seen 
the document she sent him, titled A Guide To Your Offset Options. So he didnt think 
our service should take that into account, in resolving his complaint.
Chelsea has sent our service Mr Ms original 2012 mortgage offer. I can see that offer 
makes a number of references to what does appear to be the same document, A Guide to Your Offset Options. And the 2012 offer stresses the importance of reading this 
alongside the document Mr M did quote, How Your Mortgage Works.
So I think the guide to offset options document does apply to Mr M. And I havent seen
anything to make me think the document Chelsea sent us recently, which was printed in
2020, differs in any material way from the document Chelsea says it sent to Mr M with 
his mortgage.
If Mr M didnt receive that guide to offset options in 2012, then, given the references to 
this in the offer produced then, I would have expected him to raise this matter with 
Chelsea at that time. I dont think that would be a reason to disapply the provisions of 
this document now.
Mr M referred to a number of provisions in the document he accepts he did receive 
when his mortgage was taken out, titled How Your Mortgage Works. His argument is 
that by paying in a deposit into his offset savings account, he has registered a net 
payment. And he says this payment should have triggered a Repayment event as later 
defined in those same terms.
Im sorry to tell Mr M that I dont agree with him. Ill explain why not. 
As background, Chelseas terms set out that it allows its borrowers to use their offset
savings against their mortgage in three different ways -
Option 1, net, which means Mr M prioritises lower monthly payments,
Option 2 - gross, which allows Mr M to use his payments to reduce his term in 
future, and specifically provides for an annual review of payments, and
Option 3 - static, which requires a fixed overpayment amount and is the fastest 
way to pay off a mortgage.

Mr M has chosen the first option. I think thats clear from Mr Ms original mortgage offer,
which refers (under section 6, titled What you will need to pay each month) to him 
having chosen to pay his mortgage on a net payment basis. This section goes on to say 
that Mr M should refer to the section headed "Additional Features" later in this offer 
document for details of his payment.
I should note here that the requirements set out in the offer immediately below this, in
section 6, are for those who wish to use gross payments to pay off their mortgage. 
Gross payments are the default option for Chelseas customers, but these provisions 
dont apply to Mr M, hes chosen to pay his mortgage in a different way.
The Additional Features section then summarises briefly how Mr Ms offset savings 
account will work, but it refers Mr M to the two attached documents for further 
information.
Mr M sent us two pages from his How Your Mortgage Works document. He says that 
Option 1 refers to the need to register a net payment, if a borrower wants to use this 
option. And Mr M says he registered a net payment when he recently paid in a deposit 
of £25,000.
But thats not what I think this section means. I think registering a net payment here 
simply means a borrower has to tell Chelsea that this is how they want their mortgage to 
be treated. So Mr M registered a net payment in 2012, when he took out the mortgage 
and told Chelsea how he wanted his offset savings to operate, not when he made a 
more recent payment into his offset savings account.Mr M says that these terms also refer to recalculation events. I can see they do, and 
one such event is listed as changes in your savings balance. But, importantly, I can 
see no reference to recalculation events in the section covering repayment option 1  
reduced current payments. I dont think those are relevant for the mortgage offset option 
Mr M chose.
Under option 1, the option Mr M chose, Chelsea says quite specifically that it might get 
in touch if there is a significant change to the offset savings balance. But theres no 
promise there from Chelsea to proactively rework Mr Ms mortgage if he makes a large 
payment into his offset savings account. That contrasts with the terms for Option 2, 
which do set out that payments will be reworked by Chelsea when a recalculation event 
occurs.
The document A Guide To Your Offset Options is, I think, entirely consistent with this. 
It says if Mr M makes any significant change to the balance of his offset savings 
account, hell need to get in touch with Chelsea. The document reads as follows  
 each year at account review, well recalculate your payment based on your 
outstanding mortgage and savings balance at the time. Thats why its important that 
if your savings balance changes, you let us know so we can recalculate your 
payment. 
So again, Chelsea isnt promising to recalculate Mr Ms monthly payment each time he 
makes a deposit or withdrawal from his offset savings. Rather, its asking him to get in 
touch if he does either of those things.
But this doesnt mean that when Mr M makes a lump sum payment into his offset 
savings account, Chelsea just ignores that money. Its told us it offsets any payment into 
the linked saving account right away. That money is being offset against Mr Ms debt, as 
soon as the cheque clears.
Mr M cant see that this is happening, because Chelsea hasnt recalculated his monthly
payment. But Chelsea has told us that, although interest is charged on a daily basis, 
and rates may change in-year, it only recalculates the monthly payment once a year. 
Thats consistent with the history of payments on Mr Ms account which Ive seen.
Mr M will be aware that his monthly payments remained the same for 2022, although his
offset balance rose and interest rates also rose. Hell also be aware that when Chelsea 
did recalculate, a lower set monthly amount was then requested for 2023.
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think that how Chelsea is operating Mr Ms 
mortgage now, is how it has set out this mortgage works, in the terms that Mr M initially 
agreed to.
I think its also important, in considering the effect of the documents above, to bear in 
mind that Mr M has contacted Chelsea about this before. After he made a payment into 
his offset savings, Mr M rang Chelsea in February 2017 to ask why his monthly 
payments hadnt changed. Chelsea explained then that Mr M would need to get in 
touch, after he made a large payment, if he wanted his monthly payments to be 
reworked right away.
I know Mr M doesnt think his mortgage account should operate like this. He thinks this 
is an additional hurdle that he shouldnt have to get over, to have his monthly payments 
lowered. But Ive set out above that this does appear to be what Mr M agreed to, at the 
outset, and has been reminded of since. So here, I think what Chelsea did, by not adjusting Mr Ms payments immediately when he paid in a large lump sum to his offset 
savings account in October 2022, was consistent with its terms and conditions, as they 
apply to Mr M, and consistent with what it had previously explained to Mr M. And I dont 
think that means Mr Ms payment was having no effect at all. So I dont think what 
Chelsea did was unfair or unreasonable.
Mr M said he complained about this, when his payment wasnt taken into account. But 
he also accepts that he called Chelsea in advance of this complaint. And on that call, 
which Ive listened to, Chelsea explained to Mr M that it asks its customers to send a 
secure message, once the balance of the account changed. Again, I think thats 
consistent with Chelseas position on this type of mortgage.
Mr M said then that it shouldnt be for him to contact Chelsea, it should do this 
automatically. So he said he would complain.
Mr M then complained, and he said Chelsea should have actioned his request to 
backdate the payment right away, once it got this letter. But Chelsea had already 
reworked his mortgage. It had recently completed the annual review on Mr Ms account, 
and it had sent him out a request for a new monthly payment amount.
What Chelsea did, in its complaint response letter, was to offer to backdate Mr Ms lump 
sum payment. Chelsea didnt explain in detail here that it had already taken account of 
the overpayment, from 24 October 2022. But I think it had done this. So what Chelsea 
was offering was only to take account of Mr Ms payment from a few days earlier than it 
already had done. It was offering to backdate the payment to the date the cheque was 
deposited, 20 October, instead of the date it cleared, 24 October.
It appears that Mr M had understood Chelsea hadnt taken any account of this 
overpayment until early 2023, and that it was offering to do so now. So when Chelsea 
said it would owe him £14.76 as a result, Mr M said that couldnt possibly be right.
Mr M wanted me to ask Chelsea for its calculations of interest, and audit this payment 
for him so he can be sure it was right. When Chelsea works out Mr Ms payment for the 
year ahead, its carrying out a complex calculation. And Im sorry to have to tell Mr M 
that our service doesnt audit mortgages, so I wont be able to offer him the detailed 
examination of this calculation, and the reassurance he would like. But I can say that I 
have seen internal screenshots of Mr Ms mortgage, and the funds Mr M paid in during 
October were taken into account in Chelseas systems, starting partway through 
October 2022.I hope Mr M will find that of some reassurance.
Similarly, although it isnt the subject of this complaint, I can see that Mr M must have 
made a further overpayment in summer 2023. That reduced the balance for the 
purposes of calculating monthly interest on his mortgage to zero, although again, this 
wont necessarily have shown in Mr Ms monthly payments, because those are worked 
out annually, as Ive explained above. I understand Mr M then redeemed his Chelsea 
mortgage in August 2023. Chelsea has told us that a small overpayment was reflected 
in his redemption balance, and a further small refund was made to his offset account, 
following that redemption. I think that supports what Chelsea has said, about how this 
mortgage works.
For the above reasons, I havent been able to see that Chelsea has done anything 
wrong in how it has operated Mr Ms offset mortgage. I do think Chelseas explanation of 
how this mortgage works could have been clearer and more detailed at some points. 
But I think Mr Ms complaint was likely to have been made and pursued to our service 
anyway, as hes clearly been unhappy with how this mortgage works, and thinks it ought to be operated differently. So, on balance, I dont think Chelsea has to do any more to 
resolve this complaint for Mr M. Although I understand that Mr M is likely to be 
disappointed by my decision, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Both sides have acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision, but neither side has 
offered any further evidence or argument. And I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the 
decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman