DRN-3229199
The complaint
Mr C complains that Skipton Building Society wrongly sent a letter addressed to him and his 
partner offering a meeting to review their investments. They do not have any joint accounts 
or investments. Mr C says Skipton has misused his personal data before and it should pay 
him £500 compensation, which he will donate to charity, for serial breaches of data 
protection legislation.
What happened
Skipton addressed a letter to Mr C and his partner. When Mr C complained, Skipton 
apologised and said it held a joint authority in its archives. When Mr C queried this, Skipton 
carried out a further investigation and apologised that the information it had previously given 
was wrong. It said it was clear in its records that Mr Cs finances are separate from his 
partners. It offered to pay Mr C £200 for the inconvenience it had caused. 
Mr C referred his complaint to us, saying this was the third in a series of data protection 
mistakes and Skipton should pay him £500, in the hope that it will improve its compliance in 
the future.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded 
Skiptons offer was fair and reasonable.
Mr C didnt agree. He said, in summary, that the compensation payment needs to take into 
account the serial nature of Skiptons mistakes. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Skipton made a mistake when it addressed a letter to Mr C and his partner. Its apologised 
and its given assurance that its records show Mr Cs finances are separate from those of his 
partner and that no joint authority is held. Im satisfied from what Skipton has told us that its 
put things right. The matter which remains in dispute is how much compensation Skipton 
should fairly pay for the mistake it made.
Our website sets out how we approach awards for distress and inconvenience. Mr C says he 
and his partner may have been in an abusive relationship or may have had no connection at 
all, other than sharing the same address. But I cant award compensation for distress that 
might have been caused. I need to consider the actual impact of Skiptons mistake on Mr C.
Mr C is also keen to ensure Skipton improves its compliance with data protection legislation. 
But the ombudsman service isnt the industry regulator. I dont have the power to fine or 
punish businesses. My role is instead to consider individual disputes and reach an outcome 
that I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each complaint.
The letter did not contain any personal information about Mr C or his finances. And Mr C 
hasnt told us about any embarrassment or difficulty between him and his partner caused by 
the content of the letter. But he has told us he has complained on two previous occasions 
about data protection. So, understandably, the receipt of this wrongly addressed letter would 
have been frustrating and concerning for him. 
But, having considered this carefully, and taking into account that my role is not to fine or 
punish a business, I think the compensation of £200 offered by Skipton fairly compensates 
Mr C for the distress and inconvenience its mistake caused.
If Mr C remains concerned about Skiptons compliance with its data protection obligations, 
he is able to contact the Information Commissioners Office or the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
My final decision
My final decision is that Skipton Building Society should pay Mr C £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman