DRN-2458868
The complaint
Mr L complains that Nationwide Building Society rejected his claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of substandard skiing lessons.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons. 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Although Nationwide did raise the issue of there being a potential break in the debtor-
creditor-supplier chain it is accepted that it is complete. This leaves me to consider if there 
was either a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
In effect Mr L is saying to Nationwide please compensate me for a poor quality service by 
the merchant and in turn it has asked for evidence in support of that claim. It is perfectly 
reasonable that it seeks evidence before paying money out.
In this case that is difficult for Mr L to provide since his claim is based on the quality of the 
instruction provided to his child. He has explained that his son told him of issues he had with 
the lessons and that he failed the final test due to not understanding what had been 
required. 
Mr L says that the instructor had told him there was no problem on each of the days he had 
collected his son, but at the end suggested he was aware of some problem throughout the 
week. The ski school failed to respond to Mr Ls complaint and he has told us that he has 
had similar problems with the ski school in the past. 
While I appreciate the strength of feeling shown by Mr L in pursuit of his claim, I dont believe 
I can require Nationwide to pay him the sum he is seeking without some corroborative 
evidence. The school provided the lessons as agreed and this is not disputed. The issue is 
the quality of instruction. The evaluation of the quality of tuition is, to some degree, 
subjective and while I have every sympathy with Mr L I consider I need some independent 
evidence before I can direct Nationwide to uphold his claim.   
I appreciate he says he has encountered problems with the ski school before, but this is his 
view and not that of an independent witness. I have also noted the email sent by Mr L to the 
school on the final day which clearly shows his disappointment at the quality service 
provided by the instructor. He has also been consistent in his pursuit of recompense. 
However, what Mr L regards as witness evidence is seen as mere assertion by the society. 
As I have said above, I too am unable to say with confidence that there was either a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the merchant.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman