DRN-2170802
The complaint
Mr W says Hastings Insurance Services Limited provided poor service in relation to his no 
claims discount (NCD) after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W had 14 years NCD when he first took out a policy though Hastings. Before his policy 
was renewed in 2018, Hastings sent Mr W documents that showed policy holders with nine 
or more years NCD would have that reduced to four years after one claim. Mr W renewed 
the policy and therefore agreed to its terms and conditions. 
When Mr W realised that his NCD had reduced to four years after an accident, he wanted 
Hastings to provide a letter stating that he still had nine years NCD, but that the record 
showed four years because that was the way its system worked. An advisor told him 
Hastings couldnt do that. Mr W said there was no point in it referring to nine years or more 
NCD when it was clear that the maximum taken into account would be nine years. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint. He thought Mr W wanted Hastings to 
explain in the letter that hed only made one claim in the previous 14 years. As the 
investigator didnt think there was a good reason for Hastings not to have done that, he 
upheld Mr Ws complaint. He said Hastings should provide a letter setting out the full facts. 
Hastings said Mr W wanted it to say his NCD was still nine years, which wasnt the case. 
And it said his current insurer didnt consider previous years NCD, so Mr W hadnt lost out. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision not upholding it. I thought Mr W had made it clear in a call to Hastings 
that he was unhappy with the reduction to four years and wanted that to be put right. In my 
opinion, only confirmation from Hastings that Mr W really still had nine years NCD (despite 
the record showing four years) would have satisfied him. But I thought it was reasonable for 
Hastings to say his NCD was four years, despite only having had one claim in 14 years. 
I thought the wording in the policys summary of cover at renewal was clear in stating that 
consumers with nine or more years NCD would have the discount reduced to four years 
after one claim. Mr W said hed seen a case on our website that he thought was like his, 
where we had required a business to provide a letter along the lines Mr W wanted. But I said 
each case is considered on its own merits, and I thought the case in question would have 
been different to Mr Ws case in some respect. 
Although I thought Hastings had acted reasonably, I said I could understand why Mr W felt it 
wasnt right that the reduced NCD didnt show only hed only had one claim in 14 years. But I 
pointed out that Hastings had acted in line with standard industry practice (as well as its own 
stated guidelines) and that many insurers didnt consider previous years NCD anyway. 
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional view, but neither party did.
       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Hastings nor Mr W has commented on my provisional findings, I see no reason to 
depart from them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman