DRN-4131929
The complaint
Mr O has complained about the quality of a car he acquired using finance from Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).
Mr O has been represented in bringing his complaint. But for clarity, Ill refer to all 
submissions made on his behalf, as having been made by him directly.
What happened
In September 2021, Mr O entered into a finance agreement with VWFS for a second hand 
car. But soon after, he experienced problems with it, and the dealership agreed for repairs to 
be carried out. 
Mr O later complained to VWFS about the quality of the car. It upheld his complaint, and 
offered him £500 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Following this, Mr O explained that the car had needed further work to be carried out, and it 
also broke down. He complained to VWFS and said he wanted to reject the car. He then 
brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She agreed there were problems 
with the car, given that it had repairs carried out, and it also broke down. So, she went on to 
consider whether it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. She noted that VWFS 
upheld Mr Os complaint in February 2022, so appears to have acknowledged the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality in respect of that issue. However, she was satisfied that repairs had 
been carried out at no cost to Mr O. She was also satisfied that the later repairs, when there 
were issues in April 2022, were also carried out with no charge.
This meant our investigator needed to look at whether VWFS should do anything more about 
what had happened during this period. She thought it was fair that Mr O should be 
compensated for the time he was without the car. Hed provided taxi invoices for around 
£8,000, but she thought it would be unfair to reimburse such a large sum. Instead, she 
thought his loss of use of the car was best reflected by a pro rata refund of his monthly 
repayments, for the time he was without the car. So, she worked out, on balance, what this 
period most likely was, as there were differing recollections. The car was in for repair from 
October 2021, and the most consistently mentioned date of collection seems to be around 
January 2022. And so, without any further evidence, she thought it reasonable that VWFS 
refund any payments Mr O made from October 2021 to January 2022.
Mr O would also like to be compensated for the time the car was in for its MOT. But an MOT 
is an expected event, and was his responsibility. This meant she didnt think he should 
receive anything for this.
Further, shed been provided with no evidence to show that Mr O was without use of the car 
when it had repairs in April 2022, so didnt this he should be refunded for any repayments for 
this period. 
This left the problems with the clutch in June 2022, when Mr O incurred breakdown and 
repair costs. Our investigator thought about whether this was caused by a fault that was 
present or developing at the point of supply, such that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
She explained that the car was over six years old when supplied, and had travelled over 
49,000 miles. It also passed its MOT in March 2022, and had 52,371 miles on the clock. So, 
Mr O had driven the car over 3,000 miles before issues with the clutch manifested 
themselves. Accordingly, she felt the issues were attributable to normal wear and tear.
Mr O would also like to be reimbursed for legal costs. However, our service is free  and 
VWFS had told Mr O this  so our investigator didnt think this would be fair.
Finally, VWFS had offered Mr O £500 for any distress and inconvenience caused, which our 
investigator thought was reasonable.
VWFS agreed with our investigators recommendations. But Mr O did not. He provided 
receipts from the taxi company, showing hed paid around £8,000 in cash for taxis. He also 
explained that hed had no choice but to use taxis while without his car. He said the amount 
of the daily hire charge for a suitable vehicle over the same period is only likely to have been 
fractionally cheaper than the amount of taxi charges.
The complaints now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators findings, and for the same reasons she gave.
As regards the issues between October and April, both parties accept there were issues with 
the car and that Mr O should be compensated for loss of use during this time. I agree that 
monthly repayments (plus interest) are fair, between October 2021 and January 2022  the 
period it seems, on balance, that Mr O was most likely without the car. Theres no evidence 
he had loss of use during the April. Nor should he be compensated for the car going for its 
MOT, which is standard, and is his responsibility. So, monthly repayments from October 
2021 up to January 2022, for the avoidance of doubt, can fairly, on balance, be taken as the 
following three: October 2021, November 2021 and December 2021. This cannot be exact, 
as the dates given have varied. But I think this is as close an estimate as we can reasonably 
get, to be fair to both parties.
Mr O would also like to be reimbursed for the taxi charges. Hes provided receipts to show 
he paid £7,900 in cash for taxis during this period. I dont think its fair to refund this, in 
addition to the monthly repayments set out above. They total more, for three months, than 
the total cost of the car itself, which was £7,600. Im not persuaded that Mr O had no other 
alternative. I feel this extremely high cost could have been significantly mitigated. Three full 
monthly repayments are, in my view, reasonable to address the loss of use.
Turning to the later clutch issues, I agree these were likely attributable to reasonable wera 
and tear, commensurate with the age and mileage of the vehicle. As cars age, they need 
parts replacing/repairing/maintaining, and Mr O had driven around 3,000 miles before he 
experienced these issues. Hes not provided anything to persuade me that there were an 
issue, at the point of supply, to show the car wasnt of satisfactory quality as regards the 
clutch.
As our service is free, I dont that Mr O should be compensated for any legal costs incurred.Finally, Ive considered whether an award for distress and inconvenience is appropriate. I 
can see that VWFS have already offered £500. As I think this as a significant sum, Im not 
going to interfere with it.
Putting things right
To put things right, VWFS should:
refund Mr O his monthly repayments for October 2021, November 2021 and 
December 2021, adding 8% simple interest a year, from the date he made each 
repayment, to the date of settlement; and
pay Mr O the £500 already offered for the distress and inconvenience caused (if it 
hasnt already).
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to take the actions set out above, in the section 
headed Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman