DRN-3803834
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC took too long to identify and fix an issue he had 
with his debit card.
What happened
Mr K says that leading up to May 2021 several transactions were declined for his Barclays 
debit card. He says that when he reported it to Barclays on 15 May 2021, it blamed Visa, the 
retailers, or his mobile phone company. Mr K says Barclays asked him to twice change his 
debit card before, in March 2022, it recognised it needed its IT department to fix the issue. 
Mr K says he now receives prompts to approve payments, but it has been a year in which he 
has been unable to properly access his money and the compensation offered by Barclays is 
inadequate.
Barclays says it could see that certain transactions were being declined due to a technical 
issue their end but had received confirmation this was now resolved. It credited Mr Ks 
account with £75 to apologise for the delay in resolving the issue and for the inconvenience 
this caused.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She accepted Mr K 
was inconvenienced but was satisfied that the total compensation paid by Barclays (£50+ 
£25 + £75) was fair and reasonable.
Mr K responded to say, in summary, that he was denied access to his funds because he 
could not access them through the most-used method. He adds that the level of 
compensation does not recognise the embarrassment and ongoing anxiety that comes with 
never knowing whether the card would be declined, as well as the time spent trying to 
resolve the issue over a prolonged period.
Mr K adds that the full extent of the issue does not seem to have been considered  he 
estimates that roughly 50% of transactions were declined over the year and clarified that he 
had been calling Barclays since early 2021. Mr K says the compensation did not reflect the 
enduring nature of the issue when the fix was relatively simple and could have been 
implemented when he first queried the declined transactions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr K first contacted Barclays on 22 April 2021 regarding the use of a one-time 
passcode (OTP). He made another call the following day and then on 6 May 2021, before he 
was transferred to speak to the fraud department on 15 May 2021.
Mr K made no further contact with Barclays about this issue until 28 January 2022 when the 
agent he spoke to thought it may be an issue with the card and issued a replacement. I can 
then see Mr K had two transactions declined on 12 March 2022 and he called Barclays two 
days later. Mr K was told to contact his mobile phone company as they were blocking the 
verification texts and he was paid £50 as a goodwill gesture and £25 for the inconvenience.
At the end of March 2022, two further transactions were declined, and Mr K called on 31 
March 2022 to say he still could not use his card online. Following another declined 
transaction on 6 April 2022, Mr K contacted Barclays again on 11 April 2022. This time, the 
problem was identified and fixed and Mr K was paid a further £75 for the ongoing issues hed 
experienced.
Whilst I accept that Mr K first called Barclays in April 2021, it has no record of any reported 
problems for the 8 months between May 2021 and January 2022. The replacement card that 
Barclays then issued on 28 January 2022 appeared to address the problem as there were 
no declined transactions throughout February, but I can see further transactions were 
declined in March 2022. In total, 5 transactions were declined out of around 40 in this period.
Based on the evidence, which included Mr Ks bank statements, I cant agree that this 
problem resulted in Mr K being denied access to his funds, but I do find that that Barclays 
could have identified the issue earlier and, as such, Mr K was inconvenienced by the delay.
However, having considered all the circumstances, Im satisfied that the £150 compensation 
Mr K has already been paid for this is fair and reasonable and I dont find Barclays needs to 
do anything further in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman