DRN-4076613
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as H, complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wrongly 
closed its account, then delayed sending it a cheque for the account balance.
What happened
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. Briefly, he said:
In 2022 Barclays carried out a Know Your Customer (KYC) review of Hs account. 
As part of that process, Barclays wrote to Hs director asking for information about 
the business. 
He was satisfied that Barclays letters were correctly sent to the business address 
held on its files, and that Hs director would have seen banners requesting that she 
complete a KYC form when she logged into Hs online banking throughout 2022.
Barclays didnt receive a response to its information requests, so it sent Hs director a 
further letter giving notice that it intended to close Hs account. H did not respond to 
that letter either.
He was satisfied that Barclays acted fairly when decided to close Hs account  but 
he thought Barclays then went on to make errors in sending a cheque for the balance 
of the account (which was just under £3,000) to Hs director. He said Barclays errors 
caused delays of around two months, and he thought a compensation payment of 
£300 would be fair. 
Barclays accepted our investigators findings in full, but H and its representatives did not. Hs 
director said that £300 was not acceptable given that she had to chase Barclays so many 
times for her companys money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, there is very little I can add to what our investigator has already said. Banks 
in the UK are strictly regulated, and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means  as in this case  that a bank chooses to 
carry out a KYC review.
I do not criticise Barclays for its decision to carry out the KYC review in the first place, nor do 
I criticise it for the way it carried out that review. I am satisfied that Barclays wrote several 
times to the business address it had on file for H, and that it did not receive a response. 
Barclays therefore closed Hs account in line with the terms and conditions of that account.
However, I agree with our investigator that Barclays made errors after it closed Hs account, 
and that those errors meant Hs director didnt receive Barclays cheque for the account 
balance as quickly as she should have done.
The account at the centre of this complaint belonged to H; it was not the personal account of 
Hs director. That means I can only award compensation for losses suffered by H. I have no 
power to make any award to compensate Hs director for any distress she may have 
suffered personally.
I have not seen any evidence to suggest that Barclays delay caused H to suffer financial 
loss (and I note that Hs representatives did not respond to our investigators invitation to tell 
us about any financial loss H may have suffered). But Barclays delay undoubtedly caused H 
some inconvenience. As its director says, she had to chase Barclays several times. I 
consider that Barclays should compensate H for that inconvenience.
Putting things right
Taking all the evidence into account, and applying my own judgement, I consider that £300 
does represent fair compensation for the inconvenience Barclays delays in sending the 
cheque caused to H. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank Plc should pay H £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman