DRN-4455450
The complaint
Miss C complains about poor service and claim handling by Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited (Advantage) following the attempted theft of her car, under her motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
In February 2023 Miss C says her car was broken into and someone had pulled out and cut 
a number of wires in an attempt to steal it. She contacted the police and completed a claim 
form with Advantage. She says she called the business shortly afterwards to check itd 
received the claim form. She was told her car would be collected within 24 hours. Miss C 
says Advantage told her the car would be considered a write-off. 
Miss C waited in for her car to be collected the next day, but this didnt happen. She was told 
this was because of an error with her claim. At this time Advantage told her the car was 
repairable. Miss C asked for a courtesy car and was told there was a shortage, and she 
wouldnt be entitled to one until the car was being repaired. She was told there may be a four 
week wait to get her car into a garage.  
Miss C says she expected to use her car to travel on holiday. She couldnt do this and wasnt 
provided with a courtesy car. She contacted a number of times to arrange collection of her 
car, but this didnt happen until nine days after she submitted her claim. After many more 
calls Miss C says she was offered a settlement payment for £2,489.70. This was for the total 
loss of her car, less her policy excess and outstanding premium payments. She didnt accept 
this amount. Advantage subsequently increased its offer to £2,648. Miss C also thought this 
was too low. 
Miss C explains how she was extremely distressed and inconvenienced by Advantages 
handling of her claim. She says she was going through a difficult time, and this impacted on 
her mental health. 
In its final complaint response in March 2023 Advantage says it valued the car correctly 
using the industry trade guides. It says its offer was the highest from the valuations it 
obtained. I can see that prior to this it paid Miss C £60 compensation for service failings 
when handling her claim. 
Miss C didnt think shed been treated fairly and referred the matter to our service. We 
contacted Advantage and it provided a more detailed response to the service issues Miss C 
had described. It maintained that its settlement offer was fair, but it increased its 
compensation offer to £200 in total, along with the offer of a written apology. Our investigator 
upheld Miss Cs complaint. He didnt think Advantage handled Miss Cs claim well. But says 
its offer of an apology and a total of £200 compensation was fair. 
Miss C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint. I wont be adding to the remedy 
Advantage offered, which I think is fair. I understand this will come as a disappointment to 
Miss C. However, Im upholding her complaint as Advantage didnt offer its resolution until 
after shed referred her complaint to our service. Ill explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Valuation
Advantages engineer determined Miss Cs car was uneconomical to repair. I understand 
Miss C wants the best offer she can get following the total loss decision. But having read her 
policy terms, the policy provides the market value in the case of a total loss. This is defined 
in the policy booklet as:
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not necessarily be 
the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your Insurer may use 
publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value and will make any necessary 
allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and the circumstances in which you 
bought it.
We dont provide valuations for vehicles but rather we look to see whether the insurers offer 
is reasonable. In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations 
from the motor trade guides. 
These guides are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be
persuasive because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales 
figures. The guides also consider regional variations. We also take all other available 
evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought Advantages settlement offer was fair and reasonable. Ive checked
how he arrived at this conclusion. I can see he looked at the valuation information 
Advantage provided. It used the correct make, model, age, mileage, and date of loss. From 
the two trade guide valuations it obtained, it offered Miss C the higher value, which was 
£2,648.
Our investigator obtained valuations from three of the trade guides using the same 
information for Miss Cs car. These gave valuations of £2,650, £2,116, and £2,403. 
Valuing second-hand vehicles isnt an exact science so Id expect there to be a range of 
values where different trade guides are used. Based on this information Advantage offered a 
settlement payment that is at the high end of the trade guide valuations we were able to 
obtain. So, I dont think Advantage treated Miss C unfairly when offering her this amount. 
Courtesy car
Ive thought about Miss Cs comments that she wasnt provided with a courtesy car, which 
caused her inconvenience and distress. 
Miss Cs policy terms say:
About the replacement car service You wont be eligible for a replacement car if your Car is stolen or considered to be a 
Total Loss/write-off. 
The replacement car service is only available if you are making a claim under Section 
1 or 2 of the policy and the repair is being done by your Insurers Nominated 
Repairer. 
The replacement car will be provided by your Insurers Nominated Repairer.
The service is only available while your Car is being repaired
Miss Cs car was determined to be a total loss. The policy doesnt provide for a courtesy car 
in these circumstances. 
Im aware that Advantage told Miss C her car was repairable, after initially telling her it was a 
write-off. It then reverted back to the car being a total loss. This caused confusion as well as 
some inconvenience and distress. Ill refer to this under the heading below. But ultimately 
there was no requirement under Miss Cs policy to provide her with a courtesy car. 
Claim handling/service
Miss C raised her claim with Advantage on 16 February 2023. She was told her car would be 
collected within 24 hours. This didnt happen. She was then given varying information and 
she had to either be home, in order to allow collection, or to arrange for someone else to be 
there. It wasnt until 25 February that her car was finally collected. I think this should 
reasonably have happened sooner.
Miss C was told her car was a total loss. Then told it was repairable. Then told again it was a 
total loss. This created confusion. The car was inspected by Advantages agent and a 
valuation was performed. A settlement offer was then offered on 3 March, which Miss C 
rejected. The claim records show an increased offer was later emailed to Miss C on 15 
March. 
The first settlement offer was within the range of values Ive seen from the trade guides. I 
think its reasonable that Advantage increased its offer to the highest of the valuations. But I 
dont think it treated Miss C unfairly in how it arrived at its settlement payment. 
I dont think the overall time Advantage took to provide Miss C with a settlement figure was 
unreasonable. The business says it expects to deal with this type of claim within two weeks. 
In Miss Cs case it took around a day longer than this. It acknowledges that it failed to 
arrange the collection of Miss Cs car initially. And based on what Ive read it didnt 
communicate effectively. From the claim records the onus was on Miss C to chase progress 
about the collection of her damaged car, the provision of a courtesy car, and the settlement 
payment. Miss C should have been provided with a better standard of service in this respect. 
Im sorry Miss C was distressed by Advantages handling of her claim. I note the personal 
circumstances she describes around the time this occurred, which meant the situation had a 
more significant impact on her. To acknowledge this, I agree that Advantage should provide 
an apology and a compensation payment. But I think its offer of £200 is fair, so I wont ask it 
to pay more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt already Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited should:
pay Miss C a total of £200 in compensation; andwrite to Miss C to apologise for the poor service she received. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman