DRN-4223714
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a sickness claim that he made 
on his mortgage payment protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R had a stroke in August 2015. He made a backdated claim on the policy and so Aviva 
started assessing it in 2022. The claim was declined on the basis that Mr R hadnt been 
working for 30 continuous days during the period immediately prior to the stroke. 
Our adjudicator thought that Aviva had acted fairly, in line with the policy terms, to decline 
the claim. Mr R disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R had unfortunately suffered a heart attack in 2014. His claim for that was declined on 
the basis that he had a pre-existing heart condition. He returned to work in July 2015 and 
suffered the stroke the following month.
The policy terms state:
You can make a completely new accident or sickness claim as long as you have returned to 
work for at least 90 days in a row. Two claims (that arise from a related medical condition) 
separated by less than 90 days continuous work are treated as the same period of claim. 
You will only be entitled to receive monthly benefit entitlement that is left over from the 
previous period of claim. This period is reduced to 30 days continuous work for any claim 
that arises from a medical condition that is not related to the accident or sickness that 
brought about the previous claim.
Evidence from Mr Rs GP shows that the stroke was unrelated to the previous heart attack. 
Therefore, he didnt need to have returned to work for 90 days to be able to make a 
successful claim, but he did need to have returned to work for 30 days.
Aviva asked Mr R for evidence that hed been back in work for 30 days, such as bank 
statements showing income from his employment. Mr R hasnt been able to provide much 
documentation, which isnt surprising given that he was trying to find information from 2015. 
But aside from that, Mr R has actually said that he was only back at work for two weeks 
when he had his stroke. As he hadnt returned to work for a minimum of 30 days, he does 
not meet the qualifying conditions under the terms of the policy.
Mr R thinks that Aviva should pay the claim as he has been paying for the policy for a 
number of years and the reason he hadnt been working for long enough at that time was 
due to his previous heart attack. I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr Rs situation. It is 
unusual and unfortunate that he should have suffered a second serious medical condition so 
soon after recovering from the first one.
However, when looking at whether or not Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably, I need to 
look at whether it has assessed the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. In this 
case, I am satisfied that Aviva has applied the terms correctly and that it was therefore 
reasonable for it to decline the claim.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr R has said. But whilst I know it will be disappointing 
for him, I am not able to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman