DRN-2380902
The complaint
Mr A complains Brightside Insurance Services Limited mis-sold him a fleet motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
In March 2018 Brightside arranged a fleet motor insurance policy for Mr A. In April 2018 he 
made a claim for damage to a van. But the insurer didnt accept it. Instead in April 2019 it 
avoided Mr As policy (treating it like it had never existed). The insurer said it hadnt been 
told Mr A wasnt the owner of the van but instead held it on short-term hire. It said if it had 
known it was hired it wouldnt have offered him cover. 
Mr A complained to Brightside. He said he had told it, when taking out the policy, some of 
the vans to be insured on the policy were held on short-term hire. Brightside accepted it 
made a mistake by not passing this on to the insurer. To recognise what it had done wrong it 
offered £10,000 to settle the matter. Mr A said that wasnt enough. 
Brightside then reduced its offer to £7,500. It had decided a claim wouldnt have been paid 
even if the policy hadnt been avoided. It said its offer was to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the avoidance  plus its impact on the cost of insurance for Mr A. It 
highlighted he had received a refund of about £11,000 he had paid for the avoided cover. 
Mr A didnt accept Brightsides offer. He feels £40,000 would better reflect the impact of the 
its mistake. He says it caused him to lose income, to have to pay for the van to be repaired 
and a great deal of distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator felt Brightsides offer wasnt enough. He was of the view a claim would have 
been paid if a suitable policy had been in place. So, he recommended Brightside pay Mr A 
the £7,000 cost of repairs. He also said it should cover hire charges paid by Mr A whilst the 
van was in storage after the damage. He suggested £4,075 would be appropriate to 
recognise the impact on the cost of Mr As insurance. And he suggested £1,000 in 
compensation be paid for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A.
 
Brightside didnt accept that a claim would have been paid. It also asked for the £11,000 
refund to be set off against what its required to pay Mr A. The investigator felt that was 
reasonable. Mr A didnt agree. He feels the refund deduction means he wont receive 
enough to put things right for him. So, the complaint has come to me. 
In November 2020I issued a provisional decision. It forms part of this final decision, so Ive 
copied it in below. In it I explained why I didnt intend to require Brightside to pay anything 
more than it had already offered Mr A. I also asked for any further information either would 
like me to consider before I made a final decision. 
Brightside accepted my provisional findings. Mr A didnt. He made several comments. Ive 
responded to them, where I feel necessary, below. 
   
My provisional findings
Its reasonable for the £11,000 refund to be taken into account when deciding what 
Brightside should do to put things right for Mr A. This service considers what needs to be 
done to try to put someone back in (or as close to as possible) the position they would have 
been if a business hadnt made a mistake. The policy wasnt avoided until after its expiry 
date. Mr A didnt take out any other cover for the period it was supposed to be in place for.  
Brightside accepts its mistake caused the avoidance. If it hadnt Mr A would have paid for 
the policy. And his claim would have been considered. Brightsides provided details of a 
policy it feels would have been suitable for Mr A  it covers vehicles on short-term hire. So, it 
seems likely to me, without the mistake, suitable cover would have been arranged. Because 
of that putting Mr A back in the position he would have been involves considering that he 
would have paid for the insurance.  
 
The refund and Brightsides offer total about £18,500. So for me to say Brightside needs to 
pay any extra above its offer Id need to think £18,500 isnt enough to put things right for 
Mr A. Thats what Ive considered in this decision. 
Brightside says a claim wouldnt have been paid under a suitable policy. Its explained why 
Mr As claim would have failed under the avoided policy  in summary it feels he failed to 
take reasonable care to safeguard the vehicle. 
There is an equivalent reasonable care term in the suitable policy. It requires the 
policyholder to take all due and reasonable precautions to safeguard the vehicle. Ive 
considered hypothetically, in reference to Brightsides arguments, if it would be fair and 
reasonable for an insurer to rely on it to refuse the claim. 
The suitable policy provides cover against loss or damage to a vehicle. The van was 
damaged. So, there would be relevant cover. For an insurer to apply the reasonable care 
term to refuse the claim it would be required to show Mr A acted recklessly. For that it needs 
to show Mr A recognised a risk but took it anyway by taking no measures to prevent it  or 
measures which he knew to be inadequate. 
The van was left with a person  Ill call him Mr B  who was to use it to work on a contract 
for Mr A. The job was cancelled but the van stayed in Mr Bs custody. He went on to use it 
many times. He was involved in a collision. It seems he was convicted of theft of the van. It 
seems he may have been involved in criminal activities. 
Its been said Mr A was reckless to leave the van with Mr B. He was a new employee and 
not well known to Mr A. I accept Mr A recognised there was a risk of loss or damage to the 
van from leaving it with Mr B. But I dont agree he acted recklessly by failing to take 
adequate measures to prevent loss or damage. The nature of Mr As business and Mr Bs 
employment meant the van had to be left with him at some point. Mr A says he assessed 
Mr Bs driving skills by going for a test drive. He checked his driving licence and did a 
criminal record check. I dont agree that these were measures he knew to be inadequate. 
Brightsides said Mr A acted recklessly by failing to collect the van until five days after the 
contract had fallen through. Again, Mr A recognised there was some risk of loss or damage 
to the van. His actions show that. But I dont agree he acted recklessly. 
Mr A says he tried, unsuccessfully, after one day to collect van  not five as Brightside say. 
Either way I think Mr A took what reasonable measures he could. He told Mr B not to use the 
van. He said he would come as soon as possible to collect it. As far as Im aware he had no 
reason to think Mr B wouldnt do as requested  or to believe he might be involved in 
criminal activities. Brightside hasnt persuaded me Mr A acted recklessly and that a claim wouldnt be paid 
under a suitable policy. Because of that Ive considered what the likely outcome of a claim 
would be.      
The damage to the van would most likely be covered. Mr A says he paid £7,024 in repair 
costs. There would be an excess, of about £500, to deduct from that.  That means because 
of Brightsides mistake Mr As paid, and been unfairly without, £6,524. To make up for being 
without those funds Id require Brightside to add simple interest at 8% from the date he paid 
for the repairs to the date of settlement. That would come to about £1,300 depending on 
date of payment. 
Mr A continued paying the hire costs of the van for several months after the incident. The 
van had been retained by police. Our investigator said Brightside should cover that cost. But 
I dont think that would be reasonable. 
I can only fairly require Brightside to cover any losses its responsible for. I cant say a 
suitable policy probably would cover the continued cost of the hire. Its not something that 
would usually be covered in this type of claim. The hire cost doesnt seem to have been 
incurred as a result of any mistake by Brightside. So I havent taken the hire charges into 
account when considering if Brightside needs to do more. 
Our investigator said Brightside should pay Mr A £4,075 to recognise the impact of the 
avoidance on the future cost of his insurance. He provided more details of this calculation in 
his assessment. But essentially, he used premium quotes from Brightside to estimate the 
impact of the avoidance over five years. Its very difficult to know the exact impact of 
anything on future premiums. Its particularly hard in this case as Mr As business model has 
changed and with it his insurance needs.  
But it does seem the avoidance record has increased the cost of cover, personally and 
commercially, for Mr A  and will do for some time. Neither Mr A or Brightside made specific 
objections to the figure suggested by the investigator - or how it was calculated. So, in light 
of that, and the absence of a method for making an exact calculation, the investigators 
proposal seems fair. But Ill consider anything Mr A or Brightside provide to contest that 
amount.  
Our Investigator said £1,000 would be enough to recognise the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience Brightsides mistake has caused Mr A. I think thats too low. Ive set out my 
main reasons for this. 
The avoidance played a major role in him making a significant change to his business 
model. Prior to May 2019 he was delivering a reasonable size contract  using multiple vans 
and employees. In the months after that he stopped his work on the contract. He downsized 
to just one van driven by himself. 
That change does seem to have been driven by the difficulty Mr A had finding affordable 
fleet insurance in May 2019  after the avoidance. He says the premiums he was quoted 
made it not financially worth the risk of employing others to fulfil the contract. That does 
seem to have been at least partly the result of the avoidance record. Although I accept the 
record of the claim, which wasnt Brightsides responsibility, probably had some impact on 
the cost of cover.   
The avoidance resulted in Mr A unfairly having a claim refused. Its likely this put a strain on 
his relationship with the hire company that owned the van. Mr As referred to the impact this 
whole matter has had on him and his family  through the inconvenience of having to deal with the matter and finance distress it caused. Im persuaded by what he says about this. 
And the avoidance will impact on him for some time despite a letter from the insurer saying it 
doesnt hold him responsible. Considering the impact this had had £3,000 would be a more 
appropriate amount to compensate for distress and inconvenience.
Mr A says Brightside caused him to lose income. Ive already said I accept the avoidance 
played its part in his change of business model. He says his income has reduced as a result. 
However, so far he hasnt done enough to shown that.     
Mr As spoken of no longer making profits of £25 per day per employee. Hes said he was 
taking home about £1,000 per week for himself. Hes provided invoices to show how much 
he was charging for the contract work. And theres some bank statements from after he 
changed his business model. But this isnt enough for me to understand the impact of the 
unfair avoidance on his income. He hasnt provided any clear accounting or any calculations 
to show how his income changed.  
My considerations for the claim, extra cost of cover and compensation come to about 
£15,000. But for me to say Brightside needs to pay more than its already offered that would 
need to exceed £18,500. That means Id need to be persuaded Brightside should pay Mr A 
more than £3,500 or so to make up for lost income. So far, whilst accepting its possible the 
avoidance did lead to a loss of income, I havent seen enough to be persuaded of that.
So, based on what Ive seen so far I feel Brightsides offer of £7,500 is fair and reasonable. I 
intend to require it to pay that amount to Mr A - but not anything extra.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr As latest comments. But what hes said hasnt changed my mind.
Mr A didnt provide anything to show how Brightside had caused him to lose income. Instead 
he said hes now making a better living than he was previously. So when considering if the 
£18,500 is enough I no longer need to consider the impact of Brightsides mistake on Mr As 
income. 
Mr A says £3,000 isnt enough to recognise the impact of the distress and inconvenience 
Brightsides caused him. Hes pointed to the issue affecting him and his family for two and 
half years. But he hasnt provided any further detail. I cant say Ive been provided with 
anything that persuades me £3,000 isnt enough. 
Mr A doesnt accept £4,075 as a fair estimate of the impact of the avoidance on his 
insurance premiums over five years. He says hes provided evidence to show it was more 
than £4,000 in the first year alone and £1,000 in the year after.
As I said in my provisional decision its difficult to understand the exact impact of one 
element on the future cost of insurance. Ive considered what Mr A says but the premiums 
hes referred to presumably take account of the theft loss as well as the avoidance. The loss 
wasnt Brightsides responsibility. Its something that would always have been likely to affect 
the cost of his cover. Mr As said how much he feels his cover would be without the 
avoidance  but he hasnt provided anything to support that. The £4,075 figure was calculated by comparing the difference between quotes with the 
avoidance taken into account and others without it. So, after considering everything Mr As 
said, it still seems the fairest estimate to me. 
Mr A seems to say I should be requiring Brightside to add simple interest to the £7,500 offer. 
But my decision is the offer was fair and reasonable. It was his choice not to accept it earlier 
but ask this service to consider it. That means it wouldnt be fair to require Brightside to add 
interest to the amount it offered. I felt simple interest would be appropriate to apply to the 
repair costs. I dont think it would be reasonable to add it to any of the other elements.
I havent seen enough to make me think the £18,500 figure isnt sufficient to put right 
Brightsides mistake. So its offer of £7,500 is fair and reasonable. It will need to pay Mr A 
that amount - but not anything extra.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Brightside Insurance Services Limited needs to pay Mr A what 
its offered to resolve the matter - £7,500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.  
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman