DRN-2136796
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Newcastle Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out PPI in 1990 when they applied for a mortgage. The policy was in 
Mr Cs name and it couldve covered their mortgage repayments in the event that Mr C was 
unable to work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion.
Mr and Mrs C mainly said they feel the policy was mis-sold because the advisor who talked 
to them when they arranged their mortgage told Mr C to get PPI so that his mortgage 
application would be more likely to be successful. 
Mr and Mrs C say that Mr C had left the PPI part of the form blank when he started filling in 
his mortgage application as he didnt understand what PPI was. And that Mr C took out PPI 
only because the staff member at Newcastle Building Society told him to get PPI and then 
that staff member filled out the PPI part by ticking the form for Mr C.
Mr and Mrs C also told us that Mr C wasnt given any leaflet or information about PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr and Mrs C are certain about everything theyve told us. But it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs C to remember exactly what was discussed 
when they took out PPI so long ago. So whilst I understand their concern that the PPI wasnt 
presented as optional, what they say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold 
their complaint about how they were sold the PPI. 
I have to look at everything and decide what I think is most likely. If theres only limited 
information I have to make reasonable assumptions where necessary. 
Overall, I dont find the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Newcastle 
Building Society didnt make it clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs C not to choose PPI if 
they didnt want to have it.  
Ill explain why I say this.
Mr and Mrs C took out their mortgage with PPI in a Newcastle Building Society branch and 
I've seen some of the paperwork they completed. 
On their mortgage application theres a section where it says: We recommend that you 
cover your mortgage payments for a specified period in the event of accident, sickness or 
unemployment 
There are options next to this to say whether both applicants or only one applicant would like 
cover  and theres also an option to say neither.
Theres a tick indicating that Mr and Mrs C wanted cover for the first named applicant only 
(who was Mr C). 
So, although I dont know what was said about the PPI, I think Mr and Mrs C wouldve been 
able to see on the application that PPI was separate from the mortgage and that they 
couldve ticked the option not to have PPI if they hadnt wanted to take it out. This isnt 
wording that I think wouldve suggested to Mr and Mrs C that PPI wasnt optional.
I've taken into account what Mr and Mrs C say about how the information was put on the 
application after Mr C had left blank the PPI part. And I accept that this form may have been 
completed for them by an advisor at Newcastle Building Society. But that wouldnt be 
particularly unusual and it isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint. 
I think its likely that the information on the form probably reflected discussions the advisor 
had with Mr and Mrs C. I think its reasonable to expect that Mr and Mrs C wouldve looked 
carefully over the completed application before signing to make sure it reflected their wishes. 
And I think its fair to say that by signing the completed application, which included a 
declaration that all the information on the form was correct, they were indicating they agreed 
with the information on the form. 
Ive also I've taken into account that Mr and Mrs C say they never saw any policy information 
and that Mr C didnt ever get the leaflet that Newcastle Building Society says it sent him. 
But Mr C would've had to fill in a separate PPI application to take out the PPI  and it looks 
like he must have done this as the PPI is shown on the mortgage offer that Newcastle 
Building Society sent to Mr and Mrs C. 
Newcastle Building Society has sent me a blank PPI application and I think this is probably 
similar to the leaflet that Mr C wouldve had to complete in order to have the PPI added on to 
his mortgage account. The leaflet includes information about PPI and briefly explains some 
of the main policy benefits and what it covered. So I think Mr and Mrs C wouldve been able 
to see broadly what they were applying for. 
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage was a significant financial commitment and their home couldve 
been at risk if they hadnt been able to make the mortgage monthly repayments in full and on 
time. So I can understand that protecting the repayments wouldve been an important 
consideration for them at the time. Despite what Mr and Mrs recall now, I think its more 
likely that after speaking with the advisor Mr and Mrs C decided they wanted to have the 
benefits that PPI offered and they chose to buy the policy for Mr C. On balance, I think its likely that PPI was added to Mr and Mrs Cs account when, knowing it 
was up to Mr C to say if he wanted PPI or not, after indicating on the mortgage application  
he wanted the insurance Mr C then filled in a form to have it put on their account.
Newcastle Building Society says it didnt recommend the policy to Mr C. And even if 
Mr and Mrs C feel that the way the advisor sold them PPI amounted to recommending it to 
Mr C, I dont think a recommendation to have PPI wouldve been unsuitable  so this doesn't 
affect the outcome of their complaint. But Ive looked carefully at whether Newcastle Building 
Society gave Mr and Mrs C enough information to make a proper decision about whether 
PPI was right for them  and if it didn't do this, Ive thought about whether that makes any 
overall difference to what happened.
Newcastle Building Society has provided policy documentation which was in use around this 
time  so I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that Mr C took out wouldve had 
similar terms and conditions.
Based on what Mr C told us about his circumstances at the time it appears that he couldve 
benefitted from the PPI. The policy wouldve covered the mortgage repayments and paid out 
on top of any work benefits for up to 12 months per claim if Mr C was unable to work as a 
result of accident or sickness. This couldve been a useful benefit in what mightve been 
difficult circumstances for Mr C if hed needed to make a claim - especially as he would've 
been on half pay only after being off work sick for 6 months. 
The policy couldve also paid out if Mr C lost his job and became unexpectedly unemployed. 
Mr and Mrs C had some savings they couldve used to help make the mortgage repayments. 
But there was no guarantee when they took out this mortgage that they would always have 
savings to rely on if Mr C had needed to make a claim because everyones circumstances 
can change unexpectedly. 
And it looks like they preferred not to spend savings, or they had other plans for that money, 
since they took out this mortgage rather than invest all their savings to reduce their 
borrowing. Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs C could depend on being able to continue to keep 
savings intact to spend on other things or to provide financial security for the future. So I can 
see why they mightve valued the protection PPI offered. 
Mr and Mrs C told us that they didnt have any other means to rely on if Mr C wasnt working. 
As the mortgage seems to have been based on Mr Cs earnings, I can see why 
Mr and Mrs C mightve felt it was important to protect his income. 
So it seems to me that PPI provided useful cover and significantly better protection than they 
wouldve had if Mr and Mrs C had just been relying on Mr Cs work benefits and their 
savings.
Its possible some of the information Newcastle Building Society gave Mr and Mrs C about 
the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. 
But it doesnt look as if that applied to Mr Cs situation. 
So, I dont think having more information about policy exclusions and limitations wouldve 
affected their decision to take out the PPI for Mr C. 
Possibly there may have been failings in the way the cover was sold. But it appears to me 
that Mr and Mrs C chose to take out the policy when they didnt have to so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover at the time  even if theyve forgotten this now. Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr C wasnt eligible for the policy. It seems to have been 
affordable for Mr and Mrs C when they signed up to it. As it was a policy they paid for 
monthly, Mr C couldve cancelled the policy at any time without incurring any extra cost if he 
no longer wanted to pay for it  as he did a couple of years later. 
The policy gave Mr and Mrs C useful protection in their particular situation so I dont think 
that having clearer information about the policy wouldve put them off buying it. 
This means I dont find that Mr and Mrs C have lost out as a result of anything that 
Newcastle Building Society did wrong.  
So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out 
the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
In coming to my decision I've taken into account everything that Mr and Mrs C said in 
response to the adjudicators view. They told us that Mr C wouldve claimed on the policy if 
hed known he could. But that doesnt mean that PPI must have been mis-sold when he took 
it out and it isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint. 
Mr C might want to approach the insurer to see if it would be prepared to accept and 
consider a backdated claim. If he does so and finds that he has concerns in this regard, then 
he should first tell the insurer why hes unhappy. And if hes unable to reach a satisfactory 
conclusion, he may be able to bring a complaint relating to the retrospective claim to this 
Service as a separate matter. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman