DRN-1666958
 
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) 
declined their legal expenses claim.
What happened
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr C, Mrs C and DAS so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its relevant to the issues. 
However in summary it is this; 
Mr C purchased a legal expenses policy on 15 February 2019. He subsequently made a 
claim under the policy as he had a dispute over unpaid nursery school fees. Initially the claim 
under the policy was accepted, but cover later revoked on the basis that the date of 
occurrence, that being the date of the event which gave rise to the dispute, pre-dated the 
inception of the policy.
Mr C was unhappy with DASs response and so the investigator looked into the complaint 
but didnt think DAS had acted unfairly. As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate. I will consider whether DAS acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr C. I aim to address all relevant points with a view to 
reaching a fair and reasonable decision based on the evidence before me. I take into 
account both sides views.  But, where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
then I have to come to a decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, I consider 
what is more likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances of the case. 
Looking at the evidence first, there are three crucial pieces. I have seen an email exchange 
in February 2019 between Mr C and the nursery and it is very clear from that 
correspondence that Mr C was not in agreement with the demand for some of the nursery 
fees charged. Further, on the 13 February he stated he wanted to get some legal advice as 
the January and February invoices did not reflect the agreement that has caused the wider 
issue. In addition, Mr C accepts he told the broker, when taking out the policy, that there 
may potentially be a claim on the policy in the future. 
To my mind, and on the balance of probabilities, this indicates Mr C was very much aware of 
there being a dispute over fees with the nursery school, prior to taking out the policy.Turning to the policy itself, it has a specific term which provides that cover is only in relation 
to those events where the date of occurrence is during the period of the insurance cover. In 
other words if the date of occurrence was prior to the policy coming into existence, then that 
event would not be covered.  The expression date of occurrence is in fact defined in the 
policy wording as being 'the date of the event that leads to a claim. On any interpretation of 
this wording, the date of the event which led to the claim on the policy, predated Mr C taking 
that policy out, because he very clearly knew there was a dispute over fees, since he wanted 
to take legal advice on it, and he told the broker that there might be a future claim.
I know Mr C disputes this interpretation believing that he was not aware of the dispute until 
he received the demand for payment from a firm of solicitors in May 2019. But the demand 
for payment is entirely different to Mr C having knowledge of the dispute. Prior to the 
inception of the policy Mr C was aware of the fact that the nursery school were demanding 
payment for nursery fees previously incurred and over a lengthy period. He was not at that 
point accepting the fees were due.
So, although Mr C will probably be disappointed with my decision, I have come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator in that the policy has been correctly interpreted and applied to 
Mr Cs circumstances. So I cant say DAS have acted unfairly and Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
I have considered the other points Mr C raised. First that he specifically told the broker of all 
the information and thus feels he was mis-sold the policy. That may or may not be the case, 
and as our investigator has indicated that may be an issue for a separate complaint against 
the broker. 
Secondly, I can see that the claim was initially accepted, but that was conditionally so. It is 
clear from the call recording on the 5 June that Mr C was properly advised that if information 
came to light which showed he had been aware of the potential for a claim prior to policy 
inception, that cover would be revoked. So again I cant say DAS have acted unfairly in 
subsequently revoking cover because they warned Mr C they might. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman