DRN-3247869
The complaint
Mr S and the estate of Mrs S complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt give them 
appropriate help when they experienced a period of financial difficulty. As a result of that  
and being forced to extend the term of their mortgage when they ported  the term of their 
mortgage has gone on for longer than it should have.
What happened
In 1989, Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with Barclays. They suffered some financial 
difficulty soon after that. They said that Barclays offered to accept reduced payments for a 
time and add the unpaid amount to the end of their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs S complain that Barclays didnt offer them appropriate help in the 1990s when 
they experienced payment problems. They said that Barclays should have capitalised the 
arrears. Because it didnt theyve had to pay a lot more interest. And the mortgage term has 
been longer than it otherwise would have been.
In 2016, Mr and Mrs S transferred, or ported, their mortgage to another property. Barclays 
could only offer then a five year fixed rate. So they had to extend the term of the mortgage to 
five years. They said that meant the term of the mortgage was extended even further.
Sadly Mrs S passed away during the course of this complaint.
The investigator said we couldnt look at the complaint about financial difficulty because it 
was brought outside our time limits. He said that the existing term of their mortgage four 
years and five months when they ported in 2016. That was because Mr and Mrs S took out a 
mortgage with a 25 year term at that time. He didnt think that Barclays had recommended 
an inappropriate product when they ported.
Mr S didnt accept what the investigator said. He made a number of points, including:
The mortgage was originally taken in 1989 over 25 years. When they experienced some 
financial difficulty, Barclays agreed to accept reduced payments. But it didnt explain that 
it would extend the term of the mortgage.
He had a portable mortgage and his understanding was that he had just over three years 
left when he ported in 2016  he was given no choice but to extend the term to five 
years.
The original 25 year term had been extended to 30 years and then by another two years 
following the porting  so seven years were added to the mortgage.
Its not his issue if Barclays dont keep records going back that far.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear of the difficulties that Mr S and has family have suffered during the 
pandemic and in particular the death of Mrs S. But Im afraid that after looking at everything 
there are parts of this complaint I cant look at and the parts I can consider I will not be 
upholding.
What I cant look at
At the ombudsman service we have a set of rules, which say what types of complaint we can 
(and cant) look at. That includes time limits for consumers to bring a complaint. I must apply 
those rules and decide whether a complaint is one we can look at. If I were to make a 
decision about the merits of a complaint where we did not have the power to look at under 
our rules, that decision would not stand.
Our rules say that I cant consider a complaint that is made:
More than six years after the event being complained of; or, if later
Three years from the date the complainant became (or ought reasonably to have 
become) aware that they had cause for complaint.
Unless the complainant referred the complaint to the business or us within that period 
and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint having been 
received.
Unless:
The failure to comply with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances; or
The business consents to us looking at the complaint.
The events being complained about here are how Barclays treated Mr and Mrs S when they 
experienced financial difficulty in the early 1990s, the apparent term extension in 1995 and 
the term extension following the porting in 2016. The complaint was made in 2020.
The porting happened in 2016  that is within six years. So I will consider that below.
The financial difficulty occurred in the early 1990s. That is more than six years ago.
The 2016 porting application states that Mr and Mrs S took out the mortgage in 1995, over a 
term of 25 years and they had four years and five months term remaining. That does not fit 
with Mr Ss recollection. But I am satisfied it is likely to be a true record of what happened  
and bearing in mind that some documents arent available due to the passage of time. So Mr 
and Mrs S took out a mortgage with a 25 year term at that point. In any case, I am satisfied 
the sale of the mortgage or a formal term extension was in 1995 and that was more than six 
years before the complaint was made.
I therefore need to decide when Mr and Mrs became (or ought reasonably to have become 
aware) they had cause for complaint.
A complaint is defined by the Financial Conduct Authority as an expression of dissatisfaction 
where a consumer whether justified or not, from a person about a financial service, which 
alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material distress or 
inconvenience.
So what I am considering is when Mr and Mrs S knew (or reasonably should have known) 
that there was a problem with their mortgage, that might cause them a financial loss and that 
Barclays was responsible for that. Id note that Mr and Mrs S wouldnt need to know 
everything that had gone wrong or know exactly what had gone wrong.
In respect of the financial difficulty, Mr and Mrs S knew what assistance Barclays had offered 
them at the time in question in the early 1990s. And they would have known this would result 
in the mortgage term being extended  either at the time or in 1995 when the new mortgage 
was arranged. I am satisfied that they ought reasonably to have been aware they had cause 
for complaint more than three years before they made this complaint.
In respect of the 1995 mortgage application, I think Mr and Mrs S ought reasonably to have 
known that the term of their mortgage was being extended at this point. They said their 
original mortgage taken in 1989 had a term of 25 years. It follows that the extension was for around six years. I consider they ought reasonably to have known there was a problem at 
the time in question. I am satisfied that they ought reasonably to have been aware they had 
cause for complaint more than three years before they made this complaint.
Im not aware of any exceptional circumstances that prevented Mr and Mrs S complying with 
our time limits. And Barclays hasnt consented to us considering the complaint. That means I 
dont have the power under our rules to consider the complaint about the financial difficulty in 
the early 1990s or anything to do with the apparent term extension in 1995 as they have 
been brought outside the time limits in the rules. I know Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed 
that we cant look at their complaint for what are rather technical reasons. But I hope they 
can understand why we arent able to help.
I note Mr Ss point about the lack of paperwork. But there is no requirement for Barclays to 
keep anything going back more than six years. It does not make any real difference to my 
decision about which parts of this complaint we can look at..
Porting
Ive already found that the 2016 porting application stated that the mortgage was taken in 
1995 over a term of 25 years  and that there were four years and five months remaining on 
the mortgage. Based on the evidence I have, I consider this is more likely than not to be the 
true position of the mortgage. I accept that Mr S remembers it differently, but I am not 
persuaded on balance that the term of the mortgage was less than that in 2016.
In view of that, it seems likely the term of the mortgage was extended by around 7 months to 
accommodate the switch to the five year fixed rate. I think it would be difficult for me to say 
that it was unfair or unreasonable for Barclays to extend the term by such a small amount so 
that Mr and Mrs S would qualify for a fixed rate. So I dont consider it has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in respect of the complaint point I can consider. 
My final decision
My decision is that I cant consider the complaint about what happened in relation to Mr and 
Mrs Ss mortgage in the early 1990s or in 1995.
I can consider what happened in 2016. But I dont uphold that complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and the 
estate of Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman