DRN-3850835
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wouldnt process an overseas transfer he 
instructed to a recipient in an EU country because the transfer included a reference to a  
non-EU country that is on HSBCs sanctioned countries list. 
What happened
Mr B instructed HSBC to transfer £1 to an overseas recipient based in a EU country. Mr B 
listed the reference for the instructed £1 transfer as a single word  the name of a non-EU 
country which is on HSBCs sanctioned countries list. HSBC noted that the recipient in the 
EU country has links to the sanctioned country which Mr B had listed as a reference, and so 
HSBC were concerned that the £1 would be forwarded from the recipient to the sanctioned 
country and werent willing to process the instructed transfer as a result. Mr B wasnt happy 
that HSBC wouldnt complete the £1 transfer as instructed, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mr Bs complaint. They didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by not completing 
the £1 transfer as Mr B had requested, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B wasnt 
satisfied with HSBCs response and referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators then looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel HSBC had acted unfairly 
in how theyd managed the situation, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his correspondence with this service, Mr B has referenced several regulations and acts of 
law which he feels supports his position. However, it must be recognised that this service 
isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it 
isnt within my remit here to declare whether HSBC have or havent acted in a non-regulatory 
or unlaw manner. Such declarations would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to 
potentially make. As such, I wont make any further reference to any regulation or act of law.
Instead, this service is an informal dispute resolution service with a remit based on fairness 
of outcome. In this instance, this means Ive considered whether I feel HSBC have acted 
fairly or unfairly towards Mr B in how theyve managed this situation, including in regard to 
HSBCs stated policies concerning countries included on their sanctioned countries list, and 
with a focus on whether I feel the outcome of what happened here is fair or not.
Having done so, Im satisfied that HSBC havent acted unfairly here  within the remit of 
what I can consider  and so it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint. One reason I 
say this is because Im satisfied that the sanctioned country was a country that HSBC 
publicly confirmed was on their sanctioned countries list, and that therefore this information 
would have been available to Mr B before he instructed the £1 transfer as he did. 
Mr B may contend that he didnt instruct the transfer to the sanctioned country, but rather to 
a recipient in an EU country. But it seems fair to me  given the links with the sanctioned 
country HSBC have explained they believe that the intended recipient has, and the fact that 
Mr B specifically referenced the name of that sanctioned country when instructing the 
payment  that HSBC would have been concerned that the instructed transfer amount was 
being sent by Mr B with the intention that it be forwarded to the sanctioned country in some 
capacity or other, and that therefore it was fair and reasonably that HSBC wouldnt process 
the transfer without investigating the matter further.
To that effect, I note that Mr B explained to HSBC that the £1 instructed was intended to be 
sent to a charity, and that HSBCs internal notes confirm that they were investigating the 
legitimacy of Mr Bs claim and whether HSBC would consider it permissible to allow the 
transfer to complete if that were the case  which seems reasonable to me.
Im also satisfied that the way in which HSBC have handled this matter is consistent with 
how any similar transfer request made by any other HSBC customer would have been 
handled by HSBC. And I dont feel that how HSBC have managed Mr Bs request to transfer 
the £1 is out of line with their usual process such that Mr B has been treated in anyway 
different to how other HSBC customers would have been treated.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B was wanting, but ultimately, within the remit of this 
service, Im satisfied that HSBC are fairly entitled to hold the position that they do in regard 
to the sanctioned country, and also that HSBC have responded to Mr Bs request to transfer 
the £1 in a manner which is consistent with the position that they hold. And it therefore 
follows, as explained previously, that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing HSBC 
to take any further action. 
Finally, Mr B has explained that HSBC have now processed the £1 payment as instructed 
and is unhappy with the delay in processing that payment that occurred. But I dont feel that 
this impacts any of what Ive explained above, and it remains my position that HSBC were 
fairly entitled to both hold the concerns they had and to act in the manner that they did.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman