DRN-3687468
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the colour of the phone that American International Group UK Limited 
(AIG) sent him as a replacement for his damaged phone.
What happened
Mr R had mobile phone cover underwritten by AIG and provided through his bank.
He claimed under the policy and AIG deemed it necessary to send Mr R a replacement 
phone. Mr Rs phone was grey, but the replacement AIG sent to him was white. 
Mr R complained to AIG, which confirmed that the grey phone was out of stock. Mr R 
remained unhappy and complained.
AIG issued a final response to Mr R explaining that the terms of the policy provided for its 
best efforts to match software specifications as closely as possible, but there was no 
requirement to match cosmetic features, such as colour.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service, but our investigator didnt think AIG had done 
anything wrong. She agreed that AIG had replaced the phone in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Mr R didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr R will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint.
The evidence presented to me shows that the only issue in dispute is the colour of the 
replacement phone.
The policy sets out what was required of AIG when responding to Mr Rs claim, as follows:
If your phone is being replaced, [AIG] will try to provide you with the same make and 
model of phone, although it may be a different colour.
The policy goes on to say that if the phone isnt in stock, an alternative phone will be offered 
based on an equivalent make, model and operating system. Theres no reference to making 
an offer based on colour. Mr R hasnt said theres a problem with the phone specification, 
therefore Im satisfied that he is only unhappy with the colour. 
AIG confirmed to Mr R and this service that the phone he wanted was, and still is, out of 
stock. While he may not be happy with the colour, AIG provided Mr R with a functioning 
phone which otherwise matches the one he had and is in line with the policy. The terms and 
conditions of the policy are clear, so I cant fairly say AIG did anything wrong by sending Mr 
R a different colour replacement phone. Therefore, I see no reason to ask AIG to do any 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman