DRN-3207911
The complaint
Mr V complains about his insurer, Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) for not pursuing a claim 
against a third party under his motor insurance policy following an accident. 
In referring to Aviva, I include its agents and representatives.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr V was involved in a road traffic accident, in which his vehicle collided 
with another vehicle. Mr V contacted Aviva to lodge a claim and, believing that he wasnt at 
fault for the accident, asked them to pursue a claim for liability against the third party. 
Aviva considered Mr Vs claim, including his view that he wasnt at fault for the collision and 
that it was the fault of the third party. Initially they pursued it with the third-party insurer on a 
non-fault basis to Mr V. That is, on the basis that they didnt consider him to be at fault for 
the accident. However, dashcam footage of the incident from the third-party vehicle was 
provided to Avivas solicitors. On reviewing the footage, they advised Aviva that they 
wouldnt continue to pursue the claim on a non-fault basis. Avivas solicitors subsequently 
offered to settle the claim based on a 50/50 split of liability, but this was rejected by the other 
partys insurer. Aviva then decided to close the claim on a fault basis.
Unhappy at this position, Mr V complained to Aviva. In their final response, Aviva rejected 
the complaint. They said that they considered information about the incident, including the 
dashcam footage, together with the solicitors advice that taking proceedings against the 
third party to hold them at fault for the accident would be unlikely to succeed. Based on this, 
Aviva asked their solicitors to attempt to settle the claim on a split basis between Mr V and 
the third-party, although they werent able to say how the claim would be settled until theyd 
had a response from the third party insurer. Having reviewed the case, Aviva concluded that 
theyd acted correctly, and their decision was based on the evidence available.
 
Unhappy at Aviva declining to pursue a claim against the third-party, Mr V complained to this 
service. He asked that Aviva pursue a claim for liability against the third party.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Vs complaint. He concluded that Aviva had acted 
reasonably in considering the circumstances of the incident and assessing the evidence 
available about the incident, including dashcam footage taken from the third-party vehicle. 
Having done so it was reasonable for them to exercise their discretion (as the terms and 
conditions of the policy provide) not to pursue a claim against the third party, and to look to 
settle the claim on a split basis.
 
Mr V disagreed with the investigator, and requested an ombudsman review the complaint. 
He didnt think the investigator had understood the circumstances of the accident in coming 
to his view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether Aviva have acted reasonably towards Mr V. It isnt to assess the 
claim made by Mr V or to decide whether Aviva should, or should not, pursue a claim against 
the third party (or their insurer) as that is the role of the insurer. My role is to consider 
whether Aviva have reasonably considered the information and evidence available in coming 
to a decision.
An insurer will base their decision about pursuing a claim for liability against a third party on 
the likelihood or otherwise of a claim succeeding in court. Large insurers have huge 
experience of these cases and can assess chances against previous court decisions.
Turning to the specific complaint made by Mr V, the key issue is whether Aviva acted fairly 
and reasonably when deciding not to pursue a claim against the third-party insurer. Mr Vs 
view is that they should have pursued a claim, and Ive considered carefully what hes told 
us about the accident and the circumstances in which it occurred. I understand that he feels 
strongly that the accident wasnt his fault. Avivas view is that they shouldnt pursue a claim 
because, based on all the evidence available, including that from Mr V and from the third 
party, they dont think that taking legal proceedings against the third-party insurer would be 
likely to succeed.
Ive considered both views carefully, but on balance Ive concluded that Aviva have acted 
reasonably in coming to their decision. I know that this will be disappointing to Mr V, but the 
following paragraphs set out the basis for my conclusion.
In coming to their view that proceedings against the third party and their insurer would be 
unlikely to succeed, Aviva have exercised their discretion which the policy terms and 
conditions provide for. The relevant part of the policy comes under the heading General 
Conditions and the section on claims procedures. Under Our rights it states:
If we want to, we can take over and conduct in the name of the person claiming 
under the policy the defence or settlement of any claim or take proceedings for our 
own benefit to recover any payment we have made under this policy.
We shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of 
any claim.
In considering Mr Vs claim, Aviva initially pursued it with the third-party insurer on a non-
fault basis to Mr V. That is, on the basis that they didnt consider him to be at fault for the 
accident. However, dashcam footage of the incident from the third-party vehicle was 
provided to Avivas solicitors. On reviewing the footage, they advised Aviva that they 
wouldnt continue to pursue the claim on a non-fault basis. As noted earlier, Avivas offer to 
settle the claim based on a 50/50 split of liability was rejected and they then decided to settle 
the claim on a fault basis.
Having considered the sequence of events, I dont think this is unreasonable. Id expect 
Aviva to pursue a claim against the other party insurer on a non-fault basis where they think 
theres a reasonable chance of success. But equally, Id expect them to review additional 
evidence when it becomes available  in this case the dashcam footage  and to re-assess 
the position in the light of that evidence. I would also expect them to obtain a legal opinion 
from their lawyers in support of a decision concerning liability for the claim.
Having looked carefully at the evidence, including the dashcam footage, I think Aviva have 
acted reasonably. Theyve taken legal advice on the prospects of successfully pursuing the 
third-party insurers and, based on that advice, decided that any such action would be 
unlikely to succeed. Given that, I dont think it was unreasonable to then pursue a 50/50 split liability settlement. As this was rejected by the third-party then Id expect Aviva to re-consider 
their position, which is what theyve done in deciding to settle the claim on a fault basis.
 
Aviva was entitled to reach this decision under the terms of the policy and in so doing I 
havent found that they treated Mr V unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman