DRN-3546147
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) closed his personal current account.
Background
In March 2021, Lloyds sent Mr A a letter confirming that it would be closing his account. Mr A 
subsequently complained about Lloyds actions. Lloyds didnt uphold Mr As complaint. As 
Mr A remained dissatisfied, Mr A referred the matter to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds acted unfairly towards Mr A 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr A, a bank is under no obligation to continue offering an 
account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. And as long as it provides reasonable 
notice it has no obligation to share its reasons for that decision. In any event, in this case,   
Mr A was provided with 60 days notice and hes also been informed of the reason why his 
account has been closed. I understand that Mr A is unhappy with that reason. But weve 
already separately explained why were unable to look into these reasons. So Im not 
providing any further comment on this matter in this decision. 
I also understand that Mr A is unhappy with the actions of a third-party bank in this matter. 
But as this complaint is against Lloyds, my decision in this case is purely limited to Lloyds 
actions and whether it acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr A. And having looked at 
everything provided, Im satisfied that it did. If Mr A remains dissatisfied at the role played by 
the third-party bank, which it appears as though he is, he and anyone else involved will have 
to this matter take up with that particular financial institution. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds acted unfairly towards    
Mr A and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for    
Mr A. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell appreciate why 
Lloyds was entitled to close his account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman