DRN-2318923
The complaint
Miss T says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
 
What happened
Miss T bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ts complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Miss T says she wasnt made aware of the PPI, and she didnt know it had been added 
to her account. Ive noted everything Miss T has said. 
But I note that the credit agreement Miss T signed was completed to show that she 
wanted the PPI. I accept its possible PPI wasnt discussed when Miss T took out her 
store card, but its equally likely that it was  although I can understand why Miss T 
may no longer remember this, given the amount of time thats passed since the policy 
was sold. 
Without anything else to support what Miss T has told me, I dont think it would be fair 
or reasonable for me to say that AXA didnt make her aware that the PPI was optional. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss T so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means Miss T might have had to 
cover her repayments.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Miss T would have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman