DRN-3745969
The complaint
Ms L complained because Santander UK plc refused to refund her for a £3,337.65 
transaction she said she didnt make. She also complained that Santander had blocked her 
account, and didnt allow her to access a benefit which had been credited to her account.
What happened
On 5 August 2021, Ms L rang Santander. She asked for her card to be blocked as it was lost 
or stolen. 
On 14 August Ms L rang again. She asked whether all transactions attempted on the old 
card would be blocked, even if it looked to be a reputable organisation trying the transaction. 
She also said she had a new address.
On 16 August, a £3,337.65 card payment to a hotel went through Ms Ls account. The same 
day, Ms L rang to say that she hadnt authorised this payment.
Santander investigated, but it said it was a genuine transaction and refused to refund Ms L. 
Ms L complained.
On 31 August, Santanders fraud team tried to speak to Ms L but couldnt do so. So it wrote 
to her asking her to get in touch, and blocked her account. Santander didnt uphold Ms Ls 
complaint, and refused to refund her. Ms L wanted to access benefit payments which had 
come into the account. Although the account was in unauthorised overdraft, Santander said 
she could withdraw the benefit payments  - but only if she went to a branch with 
identification.
Ms L wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. 
Our investigator initially upheld Ms Ls complaint, because the transaction had been 
authenticated without the card being present. But the investigator then saw the considerable 
amount of evidence provided by the hotel about Ms Ls long stay from May to 12 August. 
She explained to Ms L that shed seen undisputed card payments to other restaurants and 
shops near the hotel, and there was a witness letter from someone whod seen Ms L at the 
hotel. So the investigator said she wouldnt uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Ms L sent a very long objection to the investigators second View. In summary, she said that:
- the evidence which the investigator said shed seen from the hotel could easily have 
been faked;
- Ms L said the hotel would have to support its accusations by producing her signature 
on anything; CCTV showing shed been there on the exact dates; and card payment 
receipts;
- she accepted that shed done day trips to the area but wouldnt return to the hotel to 
repeat what had been a disgustingly bad experience;
- when shed stayed at the hotel in May and June, other guests had also criticised the 
hotel and those people had left early without paying for their stay;
- she as the cardholder hadnt been present for the disputed transaction, so Santander 
should have stopped it, and should have contacted her for verification.
Ms L asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations - authentication
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in summer 2021 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. 
These say that the payment service provider (here, Santander) must show the transaction 
was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, this shows that Ms Ls correct card 
details were used. Ms L had stayed at the hotel from 21 May, and she paid the hotel for the 
first part of her stay in May and June, up to the night of 16 June. When first providing her 
card to use for her booking and subsequent extension to her stay, Ms L agreed to the Terms 
and Conditions, which confirm a card would be required and could be pre-authorised, as she 
would be responsible for paying the hotel for the entirety of her stay.
The authentication information shows that the card was debited as cardholder not present. 
But this doesnt necessarily mean that the transaction wasnt authenticated or authorised. 
Nor is it compulsory, as Ms L believes, for any transaction where the cardholder isnt 
present, for the bank to contact the customer to get specific agreement to the transaction.
So having seen that Ms Ls correct card details were used, I find that the disputed 
transaction was authenticated.
Regulations - authorisation
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. 
So Ive gone on to consider whether Ms L was liable for the payment. When considering the 
outcome to a case, I look at what I consider, in view of all the evidence, is more likely than 
not to have happened. It doesnt have to have absolute certainty. This means that, for 
example, its not essential for me to have the items which Ms L claims are essential  her 
signature; CCTV showing shed been there on the exact dates; and card payment receipts. 
Taking these individually, not all payment transactions must have a signature. And I wouldnt 
expect a hotel to have to produce CCTV for every day of every customers stay, in order to 
be paid for the stay. In regard to card payment receipts, I have seen the card payment slip 
for £3,337.65 which the hotel submitted to Santander.
What I do have, however, is substantial evidence which the hotel supplied to Santander. 
This shows that Ms L stayed at the hotel from 21 May 2021 to 12 August 2021. Ms L paid for 
the first part of her stay up to the night of 16 June  and this went through her Santander 
account. Ms L accepts that she stayed there and didnt dispute the early payments to the 
hotel. For the period from 17 June to 12 August, there are invoices showing accommodation, drinks, and some meals. These invoices are on headed paper, and in the same format as 
the earlier invoices which Ms L paid. 
The hotel also provided individual table notes for meals, and drinks. And there is a witness 
statement from someone present at the hotel, which confirms that Ms L was present for the 
dates shes disputing. 
Ms Ls Santander statement also shows multiple undisputed payments in the geographical 
area of the hotel, at the time when Ms L says she wasnt staying there. Shes said that she 
made a day trip on these occasions. I consider thats unlikely given the distance from her 
stated home address. Its much more likely that she was indeed still staying at the hotel.
In the light of so much evidence, I consider its more likely than not that Ms L did continue 
her stay at the hotel and that she was liable for the £3,337.65 payment, which she had 
authorised because of the prepayment agreement in the terms and conditions. So I dont 
require Santander to refund Ms L.
Santanders blocking of the card 
Ms L herself initially asked Santander to block payments from the card.  This was a few days 
before the hotels evidence suggests Ms L left the hotel. The block to which Ms L is 
objecting, is the one Santander put on her account while its fraud team was investigating.
I consider that it was fair and reasonable for Santander to block Ms Ls account while it 
investigated the disputed payment. Ms L had claimed that she hadnt authorised the 
payment, so it was sensible for Santander to avoid any possible further disputed debits. And 
Ms Ls account was already in unauthorised overdraft.
Access to Ms Ls benefit payments
Ms L asked Santander to release her benefit payment money, and said shed be homeless if 
she didnt pay her rent. The evidence shows that Santander told Ms L, on several occasions, 
that it was willing to release the benefit payment, but shed have to go to a branch with 
identification. Ms L asked whether a passport would be sufficient identification, and 
Santander agreed. Ms L also told Santander that she couldnt go to a branch. I dont have 
full details of the reason. But I note that this dispute relates to a hotel stay a considerable 
distance from her home, and she accepted that she did stay there in May/June. And as Ive 
set out above, she also said shed done long day trips during July and August when she 
authorised the undisputed payments to other businesses in the holiday area. So I dont 
consider its likely that Ms L was completely unable to go to a local Santander branch with 
identification.
Taking all this into account, I find that it was fair and reasonable for Santander to require the 
additional security precaution of requiring Ms L to go to a branch with identification, in order 
to withdraw her benefits. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Belinda KnightOmbudsman