DRN-2120614
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Symmetric Systems Ltd (trading as Bank-Smart) has asked her to pay
their commission fee and cancellation charges for mis-sold loan and default charge claims.
Ms A says she hasnt received any compensation.
What happened
In 2018 Ms A signed a letter of authority (LoA) for a claims management company (CMC) Ill
call A to pursue mis-sold loans and default charges on her behalf. In April 2019 Bank-
Smart, another CMC, wrote to Ms A to let her know they had taken over her claims as A
had stopped trading. And asked Ms A to sign another LoA, which she did. In signing the LoA
Ms A also added four more lenders she wanted Bank-Smart to look into for her.
In May 2019, Bank-Smart told Ms A that theyd escalated her mis-sold loan complaints to the
Financial Ombudsman service. And the same month, the Financial Ombudsman service told
Ms A and Bank-Smart they had upheld one of Ms As complaints against the lender Ill call
Q, and that she should be compensated for this. In September 2019, the Financial
Ombudsman service upheld another mis-sold loan complaint from another of Ms As lenders
Ill call S.
Following which Bank-Smart sent Ms A an invoice for commission fees for both the mis-sold
loan cases, and several cancellation fees. In total Bank-Smart asked Ms A to pay £1273.69.
In October 2019, lender S said they didnt accept the findings of the Financial Ombudsman
service, but they did make an offer of £1032.38 to settle the complaint.
In November 2019, Bank-Smart again asked Ms A to pay their invoice, but she said she
hadnt received any of the compensation from either Q or S. And she couldnt get access
to Bank-Smarts online portal to check what she was being billed for. She complained to
Bank-Smart.
In their final response, Bank-Smart said theyd submitted the claims for Ms A so the offers
came from the work theyd done. And as she had cancelled her other claims they had
charged her their cancellation fees. But they would waive the cancellation fees if she paid
the mis-sold loan claim invoices within 30 days.
Ms A wasnt happy with Bank-Smarts response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Ms A had been offered redress from two of her lenders because of the
work done by Bank-Smart. He also said Ms A hadnt provided the details Bank-Smart had
asked for to accept the offers that had been made. He said Bank-Smarts fees were justified.
He asked Bank-Smart if they were still willing to waive the cancellation fees. They said they
werent, but they would waive any late payment fees.
Ms A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2020 which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im minded to partially
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms A doesnt dispute that she authorised Bank-Smart to act on her behalf. But complains
that she is being asked to pay fees for compensation she has yet to receive. Ms A has said
she has been bombarded with paperwork, threats of breach of contract and unfair added
charges. In reaching my decision Ive looked at whether I think Bank-Smart has acted fairly
and reasonably in their dealings with Ms A.
Lender Q
I can see that Bank-Smart, in June 2019 told Ms A about the offer for her mis-sold loans with
lender "Q". And asked her to sign and complete an acceptance form. The letter went on to
say:
 If settlement is not received within 30 days please contact us so we can chase the
settlement. If you fail to respond to the offer and the offer expires, you will be in breach of
your agreement with us and will still be liable for our costs.
I havent seen any evidence of Ms A responding to this letter or Bank-Smart chasing the
settlement offer with lender Q. But in Sept 2019, Bank-Smart sent Ms A, another letter
about her claim against lender Q with, it said, an attached offer and their invoice for their
commission fee. The letter went on to ask Ms A to let them know if she rejected or accepted
the offer. And said:
You do not need to make payment until settlement has been issued,.
Again, I cant see that Ms A replied to say whether she accepted or rejected the offer or that
the offer expired. In November 2019, Ms A told Bank-Smart she hadnt received any redress
and by this time Bank-Smart knew lender Q had gone into liquidation and had noted that
they would put the invoice on hold until February 2020.
Ms A still hasnt received any settlement from lender Q, And I doubt Ms A will now get any
redress for this claim as lender Q had gone into liquidation. I dont think its fair that Bank-
Smart should ask for a fee for compensation that Ms A wont receive. So, I intend to ask
Bank-Smart to waive their fee for this claim.
Lender S
In September 2019, Bank-Smart told Ms A that she would be paid compensation for her
claim against lender S. And said:
We will automatically chase up your refund after this time until we receive the offer.
But Ive not seen any evidence of Bank-Smart chasing lender S for the refund. In October
2019, lender S didnt agree to the Financial Ombudsmans findings and put forward an
offer to them to settle the claim. I can see lender S asked Bank-Smart for Ms As details so
that the payment could be made. But the couple of attempts Bank-Smart made to contact
her were unsuccessful.
Ms A says that the claim against lender S was successful because of her involvement, and
that Bank-Smart had nothing to do with it. I understand why shed think this as she hadnt yet
received any redress. And it was only after her contact with this service that there has been
contact with lender S about her settlement offer.
But Im satisfied that when Ms A engaged Bank-Smarts services her intention was for themto pursue her claims against her lenders. And I think Bank-Smart still had authority to act on
behalf of Ms A. And if Ms A had sent the information Bank-Smart had asked of her shed
most likely have received her compensation. I havent seen any evidence that Ms A
cancelled Bank-Smarts authority in the intervening period. So, Id expect Ms A to work with
lender S if she intends to accept the offer. And I think its fair for Bank-Smart to charge Ms
A its fee of 32% plus VAT (£396.43) on confirmation she has received the settlement from
lender S.
Cancellation fees and other charges
In June 2019 Bank-Smart were notified that Ms As default claims had been rejected by her
lenders as she hadnt any default charges on her accounts. I can see from Bank Smarts
audit trail that these claims were cancelled. As they were rejected by the lenders I dont think
its fair for Ms A to be charged any cancellation fees for these claims.
In December 2019, Bank -Smart sent Ms A an invoice for her mis-sold loan claim against
another of her lenders Ill call L. But I can see that this claim was also considered by the
Financial Ombudsman and was rejected in June 2019. So, I dont think its fair that Ms A
should be charged any cancellation fee for this claim.
For the remaining mis-sold loan claim against lender U, Bank-Smart hasnt provided any
details as to the status of this claim or why they have charged a cancellation fee for it. Given
what Ive seen so far about the cancellation fees charged I dont think Bank-Smart has
shown that Ms A should be charged the cancellation fees for this claim either.
So, I dont think Bank-Smart has acted fairly or reasonably in charging Ms A cancellation
costs. And I intend to ask Bank-Smart to reverse all the cancellation charges its made for its
services. Im pleased that Bank-Smart has already agreed to waive any late payment fees.
From what Ms A has told us, I understand this has been a very frustrating and
distressing experience for her. And I think Bank-Smart, as her representative, could have
done more to get Ms A her settlement offer. So, I also intend to ask Bank-Smart to pay her
£100 to compensate her for the trouble and upset shes experienced.
responses to my provisional findings
Ms A said she would have preferred not to have to pay Bank-Smart as she doesnt think they 
have done the work they should have, but has accepted my provisionally decision.
Bank-Smart accepted my provisional decision and have agreed to waive their fees for lender 
Q. And cancelled all invoices, except for their success fee for lender S. But I note Bank-
Smart has reduced the outstanding amount for this by £100, the amount Ive asked them to 
pay Mss A for trouble and upset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im partially upholding this complaint. For the reasons outlined above.
In my provisional decision I said his had been a frustrating and difficult experience for Ms A 
and the trouble and upset award was in recognition of this. Bank-Smart has said they intend 
to offset Ms As debt with her trouble and upset payment. But it would be for Ms A to decide if she wants her trouble and upset award to be used in this way. So Id expect Bank-Smart to 
get Ms As acceptance of this before adjusting their outstanding success fee.
.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and ask Symmetric Systems Ltd (trading as Bank-
Smart to:
waive any commission fees for Ms As mis-sold loan claim against lender Q,
reference 231593;
waive all cancellation fees; and
pay Ms A, £100 for trouble and upset
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman