DRN-2746227
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont provide him with a bank account, and 
wont tell him why.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr S completed an online application for a bank account with HSBC. 
This was opened the same day, but as part of the application further checks were 
then completed. Following these, HSBC revoked its decision to open the account. 
Mr S was notified of this around six days after applying and opening the account, and 
two days before it closed.
Mr S complained to HSBC about its decision. It reiterated that, based on information 
received from credit reference and fraud prevention agencies, it wouldnt offer him 
banking facilities. 
As Mr S still disagreed, he referred his complaint to us. After investigating, our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought it was down to HSBC to decide 
who it was willing to offer banking services to. And she didnt think hed lost out due 
to the lack of notice as he hadnt started using the account yet.
Unhappy with the investigators response, Mr S has requested an ombudsmans 
decision. He wants to know what caused HSBC to refuse him as a client.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
HSBC has legitimate commercial discretion over who its willing to accept as a 
customer, in the same way consumers can decide who to bank with. So long as 
HSBC isnt acting in an unlawfully discriminatory way  which Ive seen nothing to 
suggest is the case here  I dont consider it appropriate to intervene with its decision 
about this.
It seems Mr S understands and accepts this point. But he wants to know why HSBC 
wont provide him with banking services. Banks arent required to give a reason for 
refusing or closing an account. And HSBC has already told Mr S that its decision was 
based on information received from the credit reference and fraud prevention 
agencies. Its within HSBCs discretion to decide its own criteria for customers. Based 
on what Ive seen, Im satisfied it considered Mr Ss application against this as it 
would for any other potential customer. I therefore dont think it made an error, nor do 
I think its obliged to provide further information about this.
That said, Im conscious HSBC did initially open the account  only to close it a few 
days later. Its debatable whether this is akin to simply not accepting Mr S as a 
customer  given that it was still completing the standard application checks  or 
closing an existing account. If its the former, then Im satisfied that HSBC hasnt 
done anything wrong, for the reasons given above. But if its the latter, in line with the 
account terms, HSBC would normally be expected to give two months notice. 
Although there are some circumstances in which it can close an account 
immediately. 
If I were to conclude that HSBC was effectively closing an existing account, and that 
in the circumstances it should have given more notice, Id go on to consider whether 
Mr S lost out as a result. Id only make an award if I found this was necessary to 
redress any loss he suffered due to the error. 
In this situation, Im conscious that Mr S hadnt started using the account yet. And 
HSBC were quick to notify him  within a week of his application. So I dont think hes 
lost out due to lack of notice. Unlike most longer running accounts, he didnt need 
time to make arrangements for his funds  as there werent any in the account. So I 
dont need to make a finding on whether HSBC should have given more notice, as 
this wont affect my outcome. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr S. But for these reasons, Im not persuaded hes 
lost out due to any errors by HSBC.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc doesnt need to do 
anything to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman