DRN-4367221
The complaint
Ms A has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) acted unfairly when it applied 
charges linked to her overdraft on her account. 
Background
Ms A has a current account with BoS. She has told us that she became financially 
vulnerable due to ill health in 2020. Things continued to worsen and by April 2022 she was 
no longer able to keep her account in credit and was relying on her overdraft facility to meet 
her monthly outgoings. She feels BoS has acted unfairly by adding charges and fees linked 
to her overdraft usage on her account given her financial difficulties. 
In addition to the issues with her overdraft Ms A has also explained that shes had ongoing 
problems accessing her online banking. She has a mortgage with another high street bank 
linked to BoS and has some access to her account via that banks website but hasnt been 
able to access online banking with BoS directly.
She has said that BoS has closed her account and removed the overdraft facility which she 
was dependant on. Ms A say the bank has asked her to repay the full amount she owes it 
despite knowing she doesnt have any income and will be unable to do this. 
BoS has said that Ms As account remains open (as per late October 2023) and the overdraft 
facility is still in place. It says it has provided fee refunds on a number of occasions, but that 
Ms A does need to contact it to discuss the outstanding debt and set up a repayment plan. It 
has confirmed that Ms A never registered for BoS online banking and can still do this if she 
wants to. It doesnt think it has behaved unreasonably in how it has treated Ms A.
One of our investigators looked into Ms As complaint already. She found that BoS were 
wrong to apply the charges it had to Ms As account after April 2022 when it was aware that 
Ms A was struggling financially. So, she upheld Ms As complaint and asked the bank to 
refund all of the fees and charges that had been added to the account since that date. She 
also suggested that Ms A and BoS discuss a suitable repayment plan and that the overdraft 
facility be reduced and eventually removed from the account. 
BoS agreed with the investigators findings, but Ms A didnt and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for consideration. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of Ms As complaint. But I want to 
assure both Ms A and BoS that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Ms A has explained that her personal circumstances changed dramatically following the 
Covid pandemic in 2020. Im sorry to hear of everything Ms A has gone through and can 
only imagine how incredibly difficult things have been for her. 
Between March 2020 and April 2022 Ms A was no longer able to work and became 
extremely physically and mentally unwell. This had an enormously negative impact on her 
financial situation, and she found herself using all of her savings and unable to meet her 
monthly outgoings. Ms A has explained that she started to worry about being able to meet 
her monthly mortgage repayments and became increasingly reliant on her overdraft to pay 
her bills. By April 2022 Ms A had depleted the savings she did have and was entirely reliant 
on social welfare payments and her overdraft to survive. 
At the same time this was happening fees and charges were being added to Ms As account 
linked to her overdraft usage. This in and of itself isnt unusual as most banks now charge 
consumers for using their overdrafts. The sorts of charges that apply vary from bank to bank 
but from what I can see the fees that were added by BoS were in line with those set out in 
the terms and conditions of Ms As account. 
However, when consumers are facing financial difficulties, as Ms A clearly was, wed expect 
businesses to treat them with forbearance. And this often means suspending fees and 
charges until such a time as the account is brought back into good order. I can see that at 
different times Ms A contacted BoS to discuss her circumstances and fees were refunded, 
but ultimately the bank started to apply them again and this would cause Ms A enormous 
upset and distress. She has explained when this happened she would have to call the bank 
to speak to someone and go through everything that had happened to her again. Each of 
these calls were extremely upsetting for Ms A and she felt like she was being retraumatised 
each time it had to happen. 
I can understand why Ms A feels this way. She has provided both the bank and this service 
a lot of very personal and sensitive information and Ive no doubt that each time she needed 
to repeat this to someone at the bank it was exhausting and overwhelming. 
I agree that by April 2022 BoS should have suspended all fees and charges on Ms As 
account entirely and started the process of putting some sort of repayment plan into place as 
it was clear from what Ms A was saying that by this time her financial situation had 
completely deteriorated and was unlikely to improve. So I will be asking it to deduct all fees 
and charges added to the account since April 2022 from the outstanding amount that is 
owed. 
I know that Ms A has said shes unable to enter a repayment plan as she has no fixed 
income beyond social welfare payments. And her main priority has been to meet her monthly 
mortgage repayments, so she doesnt lose her home. So, she doesnt think the suggestion 
of arranging a repayment plan is a reasonable or realistic one. She also doesnt want BoS to 
remove the overdraft facility from her account as without it she says she wont be able to 
meet her monthly outgoings or survive. 
However, its not reasonable to expect BoS to continue to provide an overdraft facility and 
allow Ms A to continue to accumulate debt shes unable to repay. If a repayment plan cant 
be arranged the account will need to go to recoveries and BoS will have to start the process 
of defaulting the account. I know this will be extremely distressing for Ms A. But its not 
reasonable for me to expect BoS to continue to provide the overdraft facility on her account 
while not charging her for it and having no guarantee the money she has borrowed will ever 
be repaid. So, some sort of compromise needs to be reached in regard to the outstanding 
amount owed. Since bringing her complaint to this service Ms A has told us that BoS has closed her 
account and removed the overdraft facility. We contacted BoS to clarify this matter as we 
were concerned that Ms A had been left unbanked and potentially unable to access her 
social welfare payments. BoS has responded to say that the account is still open and the 
overdraft facility still available. It provided bank statements up to the end of September which 
showed this was the case. So Im satisfied that Ms A still has access to the account. 
In regard the issues around her online banking. I appreciate Ms A hasnt had access to BoS 
online banking but did have access to a linked system through another bank. BoS has 
confirmed that Ms A should be able to register for BoS specific online banking and access 
her current account through that platform. She may need to call the bank to arrange this, 
which I appreciate is very difficult for her. If there is any other way she can register for online 
banking without having to make a call I would ask BoS to write to Ms A and clarify what her 
options are. 
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland should do the following:
Re-work Ms As current overdraft balance so that all overdraft fees and linked 
charges applied from 26 April 2022 onwards are refunded. 
This refund should then be used to reduce the outstanding overdrawn balance
Bank of Scotland should then reduce Ms As overdraft limit to whatever the new 
overdrawn balance is 
Bank of Scotland should then contact Ms A to establish whether or not its possible to 
arrange a repayment plan to repay the outstanding balance within a reasonable time 
frame
If Ms A is unable to enter a repayment plan Bank of Scotland should follow its 
standard procedure for defaulting the account and back date that default to 1 
September 2022. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Ms As complaint against Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman