DRN-4339291
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy at the amount of overdraft charges and fees applied to her account by 
Santander UK Plc (Santander) when she was in financial difficulty and the lack of support 
she received. 
What happened
Mrs C had an account with Santander with a £900 overdraft facility. Around the start of 2019 
Mrs C started exceeding her arranged overdraft limit and by April Mrs C stopped crediting 
and using the account. Santander started writing to Mrs C about the status of her account in 
June asking that she pay the outstanding amount to bring her account back to within its 
agreed limit. 
Mrs C failed to respond to the letters and Santander cancelled all direct debits, put a block 
on her debit card and in July transferred her account to its collections department with an 
outstanding balance of £1,60.15. Santander continued writing to Mrs C inviting her to get in 
touch and keeping her updated, but Mrs C never responded and as such Santander sent her 
a notice of default in October and defaulted the account the following month. 
Following this Mrs C got in contact with Santander and made it aware of her circumstances 
and raised a complaint regarding the fees and charges applied to her account. Santander 
didnt uphold her complaint  it said Mrs C had never made it aware of her situation 
previously and that it doesnt refund historic charges that have been applied correctly.
Mrs C was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Cs concerns and thought that up until 2019 Mrs C 
had managed her account well and that as Santander stepped in within a reasonable time of 
Mrs Cs account showing signs of financial difficulty, they didnt think Santander had done 
anything wrong or treated Mrs C unfairly.
Mrs C disagreed, so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, to be clear my decision only covers Mrs Cs complaint point regarding the overdraft 
charges applied to her account and support Santander provided her. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mrs C has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to her account. But before I 
go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts Santander charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Santanders various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs C if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mrs Cs account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mrs C was experiencing 
financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Santander didnt treat Mrs C fairly 
and reasonably before Mrs C got in touch with it. I dont think that Santander did treat Mrs C 
unfairly or unreasonably here though. I say this because having looked at Mrs Cs 
statements for the period from 2016 until Mrs C stopped using the account in April 2019 and 
Santander started writing to Mrs C about the status of the account, I can see little, if 
anything, to suggest that Santander ought to have realised Mrs C might have been 
experiencing financial difficulties. 
Having reviewed Mrs Cs statements I can see that she managed her account well until 
around January 2019. Although Mrs C did use her overdraft, she received a regular salary 
and often saw a credit balance. I also see that Mrs C regularly transferred large amounts to 
another account and up until June 2018 Mrs C held around £1,700 in an ISA  enough to 
pay off her overdraft. 
Mrs C says the cash transfers went into a joint account she held with her ex-husband and 
was used to pay household bills and the mortgage. I accept this might well be the case, but 
from her statements alone Santander wouldnt know this was the case. And in these 
circumstances and where charges have been applied correctly in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Santander to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges that it did in light of how Mrs Cs account was 
being used.
I can see that from around February 2019 Mrs C started using her account differently. Mrs 
Cs statements show that she was exceeding her overdraft limit, direct debits were being 
returned and she no longer had any money left in her ISA. And in April Mrs C stopped using 
the account. 
But I can see that within two months (what I consider a reasonable period of time) Santander 
started writing to Mrs C regarding the status of her account, advising what she needed to do 
and asking her to contact it if she was in financial difficulty. And as there was no response 
Santander cancelled direct debits and the overdraft, transferred her account to collections 
and stopped charging interest. All of this is in-line with what Id expect.
I accept Mrs Cs circumstances were very difficult and she may not have been living at the 
address Santander was writing to or receiving the letters. But Ive seen no evidence that Mrs 
C got in touch with Santander to make it aware of her circumstances or change of address, 
so I dont think there is much more Santander couldve done and I cant say Santander did 
anything wrong based on the information it had. 
So overall, I dont think that Santander treated Mrs C unfairly or unreasonably and this 
means that Im not upholding this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman