DRN-3156067
The complaint
Mr E complains that he lost out due to delays by AJ Bell Management Limited (AJB) in
transferring his pension from another provider to them.
What happened
Mr E said he opened a SIPP with AJB in late December 2019 and it also had the forms for
two transfers. He said his objective was to invest in a technology trust. One transfer for
around £18,000 was initiated on 7 February and completed on 19 February 2020. The other
transfer did not proceed. He complained on 9 March 2020. When it became clear that AJB
had not taken any action on the second transfer he decided to cancel it as the fund value
had decreased from around £47,000 to around £39,000 with a loss of around £7,500. He
had made a profit of around 20% on the first transfer and felt he had missed out. He wanted
to be paid for that loss plus £500 for distress and inconvenience. AJB offered him £50 which
wasnt acceptable.
AJB said it received a SIPP application from Mr E in late December 2019. The form said he
wanted to make two transfers in, in cash. Mr Es contact details were missing from the from
and he was asked to update it. It received the signed SIPP application on 2 February 2020
and two transfer in forms. It opened the SIPP on 7 February 2020 and the first transfer was
started but due to error it said it didnt start the second transfer. It received the first transfer
of around £18,000 on 19 February 2020. Mr E contacted it to chase the second transfer on 9
March 2020. It emailed back with some questions and Mr E replied the following day and
instructed AJB to cancel the transfer. It said there was no loss because the transfer was
cancelled. It offered £50 and later increased this to £200.
It said that had the transfer gone ahead it would have completed within 10 working day so by
23 March 2020. It thought Mr E would then have invested the additional cash in the same
fund by 15 April 2020. (he invested the first transfer in phases on 15 April and 4 and 5 March
2020). The purchase price for the new fund would have been at a lower price than had he
completed the transfer soon so no loss would have occurred.
My provisional decision.
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said that AJB accepted that it made an error in 
not requesting the transfer of the second pension fund. That was not in dispute. Where a 
mistake is made, I could make an award for any financial loss and distress and 
inconvenience caused.
In making an award for financial loss the law would seek to put Mr E back in the position he
would have been in but for the mistake. Mr E said that means he should be compensated as
though he had gone ahead with the transfer and made a claim for any loss from AJB. But
that wasnt what the law requires. The law required loss to be calculated based on what
happened not on what might have happened.
Mr E decided not to transfer because he felt he had already lost too much due to the fall in
value on the pension fund he was transferring in. As a result, he didnt suffer a financial loss
because the transfer was never made. I could however see that he feels he lost out on an
investment opportunity and that is something that I would consider when making an award 
for distress and inconvenience.
Mr E was frustrated that AJB gave him two choices to transfer or not to transfer. There was 
no suggestion that he could transfer and reclaim any loss from AJB. I have considered 
whether I think AJB should have made that third offer, but I dont think it should. I say that 
because to suggest a third option could have constituted advice and AJB was not advising 
Mr E and not under a duty to do so. It was providing a Self-Invested Personal Pension where 
Mr E was free to make his own investment decision. This is what he did when he decided 
not to go ahead with the transfer.
In any event measuring loss wasnt simply a test of whether the value of his transferring
pension was worth more or less on a particular day than when the transfer should have
happened. Instead loss is measured by looking at the position Mr E would have been in had 
things proceeded as planned. That meant looking at the whole transaction from the sale into 
cash of his pension fund, the transfer and subsequent purchase of the technology trust that 
Mr E identified. Having looked at the published prices for this technology trust I thought it 
was possible that had the transfer gone ahead in late March, Mr E might not have suffered a 
loss.
I said that because while the transferring pension fund had fallen in value so also had the
price of the technology trust, he wished to invest in. Depending on the timing of the transfer
and investment it was possible that Mr E would have been able to buy more units in the
technology trust than he would have bought had the transfer gone ahead in February. So, it
was possible that he would have been better off and there might not have been any loss at 
all.
For the reasons given I couldnt make an award for financial loss as Mr E had not suffered
one.
I considered an award for the distress and inconvenience caused by the mistake. The
purpose of such an award was not to punish AJB but to reflect on the impact of AJBs 
mistake on Mr E. It was clear this had been upsetting for Mr E and he felt he missed out on 
an investment opportunity, which must be disappointing for him. But it was Mr Es decision 
not to go ahead with the transfer and AJB didnt advise him about that.
I considered how AJB responded at the time. I could see that it quickly admitted it had
made a mistake and asked for Mr Es instructions and later offered £50 and then £200 in
recognition of the error. I thought it responded in a timely manner and followed Mr Es
instructions. I thought that the offer of £200 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
For those reasons I proposed to decide that AJB had made a fair and reasonable offer of
£200.
Mr E thought the offer of £200 was a joke. He said he had spent far more than that on 
international calls to AJB and other advisers over a period of 20 months. 
AJB made no further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so I have not changed my mind.
My final decision
 I am of the view that AJ Bell Management Limited has made a fair and reasonable offer of
£200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman