DRN-2903452
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclays Smart Investor (Barclays) 
delayed the transfer of her ISA and caused her to miss out on a corporate event. 
Mrs S says that she has suffered a financial loss as she could not take part in the corporate 
event.
What happened
On 21 July 2020, Mrs S contacted Barclays for help in transferring a Stocks and Shares ISA 
that she held with another provider to her Barclays account. The transfer process started on 
the 22 July 2020. 
Mrs S completed a transfer authority form and handed it into her Barclays branch on 31 July 
2020. This form was never received by the department processing the transfer.
On 19 August 2020, the other provider contacted Barclays requesting the transfer authority 
form. Barclays contacted Mrs S who replied the same day.
Mrs S completed another form and this was received by Barclays on 1 September 2020 who 
sent it onto the other provider. The transfer was completed on the 29 September 2020.
Mrs S complained about the time taken for the transfer to be completed and said that she 
had wished to sell stock and take part in a corporate event. Mrs S said that she wanted to 
take part in an IAG rights issue.
Barclays investigated the complaint and initially didnt uphold the complaint. They said that 
they delay was outside of their control but offered Mrs S £125 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused by the transfer process.
Unhappy with Barclays final decision, Mrs S referred her complaint to the service and one of 
our investigators reviewed the complaint. The investigator thought that the initial offer from 
Barclays was low and asked them to increase the award for the trouble and upset to £250.
Barclays agreed to this and said that they would also uphold the complaint. The investigator 
upheld Mrs Ss complaint and thought that Barclays had attempted to resolve the complaint.
Mrs S was not happy with the amount of compensation suggested and has asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and I 
think that the offer of compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I know that 
Mrs S feels strongly about her complaint and I will explain why I have reached this decision.
I would like to thank Mrs S for the detail that she has sent in her submission to the service 
and I have used this information in coming to my decision.
I think that the events surrounding the transfer process are understood and acknowledged 
by both parties so its not my intention to go over this part of the complaint in detail. Barclays 
have said that the initial transfer authority form was completed by Mrs S, but it didnt reach 
the correct department.
When the second transfer authority form was received by Barclays, it was processed within 
a short time and the transfer was completed. Mrs S says that as the transfer process was 
delayed, she missed out on taking part in a rights issue and has suffered a financial loss.
I have looked at the timeline involved in this complaint and see that the transfer request 
started in July 2020 and the rights issue took place in the middle of September. I think that 
had the transfer process not been delayed, Mrs S would have been able to have all options 
open to her.
I can see that Mrs S did take part in the rights issue. In their submission to the service, 
Barclays said that Mrs S sold some of her rights in order to take up the rest of her rights 
entitlement. This process is known as tail swallow.
Mrs S has said that it was her intention to sell some shares when the transfer was complete 
in order to raise funds to take up the rights. As the transfer didnt complete until after the 
rights issue had closed, Mrs S was not able to do this.
In his view, the investigator has said that there were several options available to Mrs S so 
that she could take part in the rights issue. I have considered this and although I can see 
that Barclays did delay the transfer process, I need to look at what other options were 
available to Mrs S.
In her submission to the service, Mrs S has said that she pays fees to Barclays and does not 
feel that she should have to mitigate the errors that Barclays made. I sympathise with Mrs S, 
but I also need to look at what she could have done to ensure that she had cash available 
for the rights issue.
Mrs S has said that her husband worked for IAG and they both had a keen interest in the 
shares. Mrs S said that they follow the company closely and were aware that there was a 
rights issue on the way. 
In his view, the investigator said that Mrs S could have disinvested her shares at her other 
provider to fund the ability to take part in the rights issue. I see that Mrs S spoke to her other 
provider on 11 and 16 September 2020. As the transfer hadnt been completed at this point 
there would have been an opportunity to stop the in-specie transfer. 
I think that at this point there was an opportunity for Mrs S to ask her other provider to sell 
shares so that she could have had cash to take up the rights issue. I say this as Mrs S had a 
conversation with Barclays early in the transfer process where a cash or in-specie transfer 
was discussed.Mrs S has already said that she shouldnt have to take steps to mitigate errors made by 
Barclays but its clear that Mrs S wanted to take part in the rights issue, and this was 
important to her. 
To be clear, Im not using Mrs S knowledge of IAG against her or that she should have had 
to step in when the transfer to Barclays was delayed but I think she could have done more to 
explore other options so she could take part in the rights issue and this includes contacting 
her other provider to sell or transfer in cash.
In her submission to the service, Mrs S has said that Barclays made an error on her 
husbands rights issue and this was corrected. Mrs S feels that Barclays should treat her 
complaint in the same way.
The service will look at each complaint on its own merits and Barclays have supplied some 
details about Mrs S husbands complaint. From what I have seen, the issue that Mrs S 
husband faced is different to the complaint that Mrs S had with her transfer. I dont think the 
two issues are the same and I although I have considered this, it doesnt affect my decision 
in this complaint.
Turning to the compensation offered by Barclays for the trouble and upset caused by the 
delay in the transfer, I see that Barclays have increased their offer to £250 after the 
investigator suggested that the amount be increased.
I know that Mrs S had to chase the transfer with Barclays and contacted her other provider 
to help progress the transfer. Considering the delay and the actions that Mrs S had to take, I 
think that the offer of £250 is fair and reasonable and in line with what the service would 
suggest so Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman