DRN-3403034
The complaint
Mr D complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd (Wealthmasters) in February 2018 to transfer the value of his 
safeguarded benefits in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension.
Mr D is represented in this complaint by a third party (Representative).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 28 February 2022. I set out the
background and my provisional findings. Ive repeated what I said here:
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel) announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  
the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of defined 
benefits pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel closed the 
BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. In May 2017, the PPF announced that 
the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed  this was 
approved by the Pensions Regulator in August 2017. Under the announced plans, Tata 
Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new defined benefits pension scheme, the BSPS2, 
subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr D, 
under the Time to Choose exercise. This explained that BSPS members had three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a personal pension.
Members had to decide which option they wanted by a deadline in December 2017  those
that didnt choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the
PPF. 
The details of Mr Ds safeguarded benefits were as follows:
He had accrued 10 years and 6 months qualifying service between                               
4 September 2006 and 31 March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was a safeguarded benefit defined by reference to his 
final salary, pensionable service and benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving 
the scheme on 31 March 2017, his annual scheme pension was £4,848.34;
The scheme pension comprised several elements, each part of which would be 
revalued by a prescribed amount over the term to the scheme normal retirement age 
of 65 and, once in payment, would escalate annually by a prescribed amount;
The revaluation and escalation rates were guaranteed in line with the BSPS rules;
Payment of benefits before 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction on a 
sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at 55 and a 18% reduction at 60;
The estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS at 65 was 
£11,741 or a reduced pension of £7,781 plus tax-free cash of £51,876. And at 60 it 
was £8,509 or a reduced pension of £5,842 plus tax-free cash of £38,947;
The estimated revalued annual income payable by the PPF at 65 was £8,995.02 or a 
reduced pension of £7,202.11 plus tax-free cash of £48,014.12. And at 60 it was 
£7,264.89 or a reduced pension of £6,024.83 plus tax-free cash of £40,165.56;
On death before retirement, a refund of contributions of £14,780.35 plus interest at 
3% per year compound and a 50% spouses pension would be provided  after 
retirement, a potential lump sum equivalent to his remaining annual pension between 
the date of death and five years after the date of retirement and a 50% spouses 
pension thereafter calculated as if no tax-free cash was taken by Mr D at retirement; 
The provision of a dependants allowance for any qualifying dependants calculated 
as five sixths of the spouse's pension with this amount being shared between 
dependants; and
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £104,252.28 
which had been reduced by 5% (from £109,739.24) due to the BSPS being in deficit.
Mr D was concerned what the announcement by Tata Steel meant for the security of his 
safeguarded benefits. He initially contacted another business (which I shall call Firm L) for 
advice. Firm L introduced Mr D to Wealthmasters.
Wealthmasters recorded the following information about Mr Ds circumstances in                      
February 2018:
He was 29, in good health and employed by Tata Steel on a gross annual salary of 
about £35,000;
His was single with no financially dependent children but had been in a long-term 
relationship with his partner for about three years;
His non-pension assets totalled £121,500 which included his home valued at 
£120,000 and cash savings and investments of about £1,500;
His liabilities totalled about £90,000 which was the outstanding mortgage on his 
home, due to be repaid in 22 years time when he would be 51;
Through his employment with Tata Steel, he was entitled to a death in service lump 
sum benefit of four times his salary;He had surplus monthly income of about £400 after paying all of his regular bills and 
outgoings  although he was spending all of this on renovations on his home while 
he lived at his parents house;
In addition to his safeguarded benefits, he was building up retirement benefits in the 
Tata Steel defined contribution pension scheme and had been since April 2017  he 
and Tata Steel were, in total, contributing 16% of his pensionable salary into that 
plan;
His preferred retirement age was age 60 in 2048. His State pension age was 68. 
Wealthmasters recommended that Mr D contact the Department of Work and 
Pensions to obtain a forecast of his estimated State pension; and
On a scale of risk profiles described as cautious, moderately cautious, moderate, 
moderately adventurous and adventurous, it was initially determined that he had a 
moderately adventurous risk profile. But, after a discussion with Mr D, it was agreed 
that he had a moderate risk profile because he wanted to adopt a more cautious 
approach regarding investment of his pension benefits.
Mr Ds needs and objectives
In its suitability report dated 12 February 2018, Wealthmasters recorded that Mr D had the 
following needs:
You are a deferred member of the British Steel Pension Scheme (Final Salary) and 
you wish to review the benefits options of the scheme and you are also concerned 
about the stability of the scheme going forward, in light of the proposed sale of the 
British Steel business by its parent company Tata Steel. You have stated that you 
have informed the British Steel scheme administrators that you have elected for your 
British Steel pension rights to migrate to the British Steel 2 (BS2) pension scheme. 
However, you stated that you do not want your pension to transfer to the BS2 
pension under any circumstance as you said in your own words, 'You Don't Trust 
British Steel', and you are concerned about the long term future of the scheme given 
the current outlook for the Tata business and the steel industry in the UK.
As you intend to retire earlier than expected, you wish to have the facility to draw 
your pension benefits from age 60 without penalty. As you may require your pension 
income sooner than the British Steel pension schemes normal retirement age of 65, 
to hopefully enjoy a longer period of retirement.
As you cannot accurately predict how much of your income you will need at age 60, 
you anticipate requiring an annual of circa £15,000 per annum (in todays' terms) in 
retirement and you would like to have the flexibility to vary your level of income and 
not have to take all of tax free cash in one go, as you would like to make use of any 
personal tax allowances to minimise the effect of income tax on your pension 
income. 
The death benefits offered by the British Steel pension are of key importance to you, 
as you are not married, and one of your main concerns is that should you die your 
pension benefits would be retained by the British Steel Pension Scheme and you 
would prefer for them to pass to your next of kin.
And that his objectives were as follows:To retire at age 60 and have the ability to receive a tax efficient income and have the 
ability to vary your pension income to make use of personal tax allowance and where 
possible phase your tax free cash by taking it piecemeal, to further maximise tax 
efficiency.
You are concerned that the British Steel will not meet this objective and you wish to 
consider an alternative pension arrangement to provide the flexibility you desire.
Critical yield 
Wealthmasters arranged for a TVAS report to be produced to calculate the following critical 
yield figures based on a transfer value of £104,252.28. This report showed the average 
annual investment return required by the personal pension to provide benefits of equal value 
to either the BSPS or PPF, as follows:
At age 60 based 
on a full pensionAt age 60 based 
on a reduced 
pension and 
maximum tax-
free cashAt age 65 based 
on a full pensionAt age 65 based 
on a reduced 
pension and 
maximum tax-
free cash
BSPS 5.48% 4.59% 5.13% 4.33%
PPF 4.36% 4.18% 3.92% 3.73%
The suitability report stated that the critical yield figure at 65 based on Mr D taking the full 
pension was 5.73% rather than 5.13% as stated in the TVAS report. 
Wealthmasters recommendation to Mr D
Wealthmasters set out in its suitability report its recommendation that Mr D transfer the value 
of his safeguarded benefits to a personal pension instead of either the BSPS2 or PPF for the 
following reasons:
The scheme [BSPS] is currently in deficit with insufficient funds to cover its liabilities.
The pension scheme trustees have offered a competitive Cash Equivalent Transfer 
Value.
The Transfer Value Analysis* report we have conducted using our research tool, 
Selecta pension has confirmed that pre-retirement death benefits would be greater 
following a transfer to a money purchase scheme.
The Transfer Value Analysis* report has confirmed that post-retirement death 
benefits would be greater following a transfer to a money purchase scheme.
The Transfer Value Analysis* report has confirmed that both pre and post retirement 
death benefits would be paid as a lump sum rather than an ongoing income which 
suits your personal requirements.
Your personal circumstances would benefit from the flexibility provided by the 
pension freedom legislation at retirement.
You require total flexibility with your pension arrangements both now and at 
retirement and a personal pension plan would meet both your current and ongoing 
requirements.You want to ensure that your next of kin receive the receive the benefits from your 
plan in the event of your death by obtaining the best death benefit options available 
and this is one of your biggest concerns as your pension would be retained by the 
scheme upon your demise.
A personal pension would not penalise you or apply a reduction in benefits should 
elect to retire early and take pension benefits from age 60.
*The Transfer Value Analysis report is generated by our defined benefits research tool, 
SelectaPension, this very technical document is available on request.
The suitability report set out the generic advantages and disadvantages of a pension transfer 
compared to the PPF and BSPS2 options. Wealthmasters recommended that Mr D invest 
the value of his personal pension in the selected providers portfolio fund to align with his 
moderate risk profile with a chosen retirement age of 60. Mr D accepted Wealthmasters 
recommendation. 
The costs associated with the recommendation were set out in the suitability report, 
summarised as follows:
Initial charges
£999  suitability report fee (to be waived on acceptance and implementation of 
Wealthmasters recommendation)
£2,500  initial adviser charge deducted from the transfer value and payable to 
Wealthmasters
Ongoing annual charges
0.45% of fund value  personal pension provider and investment charge 
0.5% of fund value  ongoing adviser charge payable to Firm L to provide ongoing 
advice and servicing on Mr Ds personal pension 
This complaint
The Representative complained to Wealthmasters about the suitability of the pension 
transfer advice it gave to Mr D in February 2018. The Representatives position can be 
summarised as follows:
Tata Steel and changes to the BSPS: After Tata Steel announced that it would be 
examining options to restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from 
the company, Mr D heard a lot of worrying rumours about the steelworks and the 
security of his safeguarded benefits. He was only 29, not a sophisticated investor and 
never had to think about his retirement before the announced changes to the BSPS. 
Everything Mr D had heard about the PPF and the BSPS2 was very negative. Most 
of his colleagues were transferring out of the BSPS into private plans so he thought 
he might be better off doing the same but was unsure. He sought advice from Firm L 
who, in turn, introduced him to Wealthmasters in early February 2018. After listening 
to his concerns, Wealthmasters didnt do anything to allay Mr Ds apprehensions 
about the security of his safeguarded benefits. While Mr D was worried about the 
situation, he wouldnt have transferred against professional advice had 
Wealthmasters advised him to maintain his safeguarded benefits;BSPS safeguarded benefits: Mr Ds safeguarded benefits offered guaranteed 
income and represented most of his retirement provision built up by that time. So 
hed be heavily reliant on it to provide retirement income. He didnt have specific 
objectives other than to protect the value of his benefits. He didnt understand how 
valuable safeguarded benefits were until long after he transferred out of the BSPS. 
He now knows that had he transferred to either the BSPS2 or PPF, he wouldnt have 
had to worry about the markets, inflation, or the charges he now faces through the 
recommended personal pension. Rather, hed have peace of mind and a guaranteed, 
escalating income for life without cost;
BSPS2 and PPF options: Mr D was unaware the trustees of the BSPS had 
indicated that the BSPS2 would provide greater benefits than the PPF and only 
marginally less generous benefits than the BSPS. This information was available to 
Wealthmasters at the time of its recommendation in February 2018. But it presented 
both the BSPS2 and PPF as unsuitable options. And so it allowed Mr D to think that 
a transfer to either the BSPS2 or PPF would be a poor outcome;
Mr Ds objectives: Wealthmasters mentioned control, flexibility, the ability to retire 
early and improved death benefits as significant benefits of transferring into a 
personal pension. But these werent Mr Ds own thoughts or concerns. His main 
objective was to protect the value of his safeguarded benefits. He didnt want to take 
much risk but was encouraged to do so by Wealthmasters due to his age and long 
investment time horizon to 60. Like most people, he was interested in retiring early 
but didnt know if this was possible or whether it was a good idea. There werent any 
conversations about the pros and cons of each of his options other than that hed be 
heavily penalised for taking his pension early under the BSPS2 or PPF. And as for 
the death benefit objective, it wasnt a priority for Mr D because he was young, 
healthy and, through his employment with Tata Steel, was entitled to a death in 
service lump sum benefit of four times his salary which wouldve cleared his 
mortgage. He couldve bought additional life cover cheaply if he needed more but this 
wasnt mentioned as an option by Wealthmasters;
Mr Ds retirement income need: Mr Ds retirement income need at 60 couldve 
been met by a combination of his Tata Steel defined contribution plan, or any other 
pension savings he might have accrued over the following 30 year period, and by 
taking benefits early under either the PPF or BSPS2. So there wasnt any good 
reason to relinquish the option of guaranteed income provided by either the PPF or 
BSPS2 at that time;
Fact-find process: Wealthmasters fact-find document included a Final Salary 
Questionnaire where he was asked to tick points as not important, important or 
very important. The questionnaire was completed in minutes and the trade-offs of 
the various options wasnt explored. At the end of the questionnaire, the following 
question appears: in the areas marked very important please give your reasons in 
your own words why. But no notes were written in the comments box;
Advice process: Mr D was encouraged to believe he would be better off by 
transferring. He wasnt aware of the level of benefits he was likely to get from the 
personal pension because Wealthmasters didnt explain it to him. He didnt 
understand the fees and charges he would pay, or inflation, because these things 
werent explained either. According to the transfer quotation paperwork produced by 
the BSPS, the deadline to complete the pension transfer was 16 February 2018.                   
Mr D first met Wealthmasters around 8 February, the suitability report was dated                   
12 February and the transfer paperwork sent to the pension provider on 13 February with a request that it be sent to the BSPS by special delivery to meet the deadline. 
Therefore, the process to complete the fact-finding process, transfer analysis, 
issuance of the suitability report and completion of the paperwork before the deadline 
was completed in a matter of days. The rushed nature of the transaction was 
contrary to the FCAs expectations and gave Mr D no time to reflect and consider his 
options;
TVAS report and critical yield: The critical yield figures stated in the TVAS report 
werent explained to Mr D. In any event, the assumed charges included in the TVAS 
report were understated and the critical yield figures were incorrect, leaving a false 
impression of the investment return required to match the relinquished safeguarded 
benefits. The suitability report stated a critical yield figure of 5.73% but that figure 
doesnt appear in the TVAS report or any other analysis documents;
Illustrations and cashflow modelling: The illustrations in the suitability report 
indicated that, after charges and inflation, Mr Ds personal pension fund value might 
be £148,000 at 60 based on a mid-rate growth (1.7%) giving him an annual pension 
of £5,850  this was less than that projected to be provided by the PPF at £7,264.89 
at the same age. The effect of charges and inflation over time wasnt explained to     
Mr D to help him understand how these would impact the benefits hed ultimately 
receive. Furthermore, Wealthmasters mispresented the projected growth rate under 
the personal pension. This was because the suitability report stated that, based on 
an assumed mid-rate growth of 2.4%, the fund value might be £165,000 at 60. But 
the pension providers illustration appended to the suitability report assumed a mid-
rate growth of 1.8% and indicated that the fund value might be £130,000 at 60. 
Likewise, the cashflow modelling prepared by Wealthmasters assumed the real rate 
of return for the personal pension would be 3%, implying that the personal pension 
would provide income longer than would actually be the case;
Disclosure of risks: Wealthmasters gave Mr D literature which focused on the 
potential benefits of transferring to a personal pension without focusing to the same 
extent on the potential drawbacks, or on the potential benefits of maintaining his 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 or transferring to the PPF. This was unfair and 
misleading. In one document provided by Wealthmasters titled, Guide to 
Occupational Pensions and Defined Benefits, large sections were devoted to the 
benefits of transferring. Sub-headings in the document included: Six good reasons 
to take a look at your transfer option, why its a good time to consider your transfer 
option and why might you take a transfer offer?. Only a quarter page at the end of 
the four-page document set out why maintaining safeguarded benefits might be the 
better option. In a further document tiled, Pros and cons of cashing in or keeping a 
Defined Benefit Pension? Wealthmasters included a step-by-step guide to 
transferring out. The document stated things like, Its all very well having an 
excellent DB pension but will the company still be there to pay it, think BHS?. The 
benefits of the PPF were ignored in these documents as they were in Mr Ds 
meetings with Wealthmasters. There wasnt any reason to think the BSPS2 would 
end up in the PPF because the situation wasnt comparable to BHS; and
Suitability: Wealthmasters was in possession of all the relevant information and 
must have known Mr D would be worse off in retirement by transferring rather than 
opting for either the BSPS2 or PPF. It kept that from him and, instead, led him to 
believe that hed better off by transferring. Overall, it thought that Wealthmasters 
failed to adhere to several regulatory requirements including COBS 4.2.1(1) R, 
COBS 9.2.1(1) R, COBS 9.2.1(2) R), COBS 9.2.2 R and COBS 19.1. To put things right, the Representative stated that Wealthmasters should pay redress to                  
Mr D on the basis that he instead transferred to the BSPS2 and not a personal pension.
Wealthmasters response to Mr Ds complaint
Wealthmasters didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint because it was satisfied that its advice to 
transfer to the personal pension was suitable and in line with the FCAs rules and guidance. 
It appointed a third party to provide, on its behalf, a substantial final response letter dated                        
3 March 2020 setting out its position. This can be summarised as follows:
Basis of Mr Ds complaint: It acknowledged the FCAs default position that an 
adviser should start by assuming a pension transfer will not be suitable. But Mr D had 
unique circumstances and objectives which meant a pension transfer was suitable in 
his case. The basis of Mr Ds complaint, as put forward by the Representative, was 
generic and on the basis that most pension transfers are unsuitable but didnt 
include the specific reasons why it thought Wealthmasters advice was unsuitable; 
Media attention: Given the media coverage concerning BSPS pension transfers, it 
believed that a blanket approach was being applied by the FCA and this service on 
such cases and that any adviser who recommended a BSPS transfer is automatically 
assumed to have given unsuitable advice. But it doesnt think this was fair and that 
each case should be assessed on its own merits which is exactly what it did when it 
advised Mr D by providing bespoke advice to achieve his unique objectives;
Financial loss: It wasnt convinced that Mr D had suffered a financial loss as 
claimed by the Representative because it had failed to produce any evidence or 
calculations to support this;
Competence of the Representative: It questioned whether the Representative was 
suitably qualified to assess the quality of its recommendation and requested 
evidence to demonstrate this. It held this view because if a competent person had 
read the relevant paperwork, it would be apparent that its recommendation achieved                       
Mr Ds objectives and was therefore suitable. It also questioned whether the 
Representative had treated Mr D fairly because of the way in which it presented his 
complaint which it believed to be contrary to the Solicitors Regulation Authoritys 
guidelines;
FCA file reviews: During 2017, the FCA began a focused review on the quality of 
pension transfer advice given to members of the BSPS. As part of this process, the 
FCA requested information from advisory businesses engaged in BSPS pension 
transfers including Wealthmasters. After reviewing its files, the FCA confirmed that 
no further information or remedial action was required. The FCA made no criticisms 
of Wealthmasters advice or processes and it retained its permission to advise on 
pension transfers. In its view, the lack of FCA action demonstrated that 
Wealthmasters advice process was robust resulting in suitable recommendations. 
This was borne out by the fact that as of January 2019, Wealthmasters had been 
approached by some 65 clients in respect of pension transfer advice and, of those, 
26 clients were advised to transfer and 39 cases were advised to maintain their 
safeguarded benefits. This demonstrated Wealthmasters professionalism, integrity 
and adherence to the FCA's rules and that it treated each client individually and 
advised them in line with their unique circumstances and requirements;
Situation surrounding the BSPS: It recognised that the situation surrounding Tata 
Steel and the BSPS meant it was a worrying time for individuals like Mr D. It was a 
unique situation with members forced to make swift and potentially life altering decisions. Unfortunately, this led to some unscrupulous advisers taking advantage by 
seeking out and marketing to inexperienced scheme members with the sole aim of 
transferring the value of their safeguarded benefits out of the BSPS. In contrast, it 
never specifically sought BSPS members with a view to advising them. Rather, they 
approached Wealthmasters;
Information about the changes to the BSPS: In the months leading up to its 
recommendation, the BSPS had provided Mr D with lots of information about the 
changes to the scheme and options available. Therefore, members that had limited 
knowledge or experience in relation to pension matters had the opportunity to gain a 
clearer understanding of the situation, familiarise themselves with the pros and cons 
of the options available before taking financial advice. So it didnt agree with Mr Ds 
assertion that he didnt understand what was happening at the time it advised him;
BSPS2 and PPF options: When Mr D approached Wealthmasters it was evident 
that he had lost confidence in Tata Steel and was worried about the future prospects 
of his employer and the security of his safeguarded benefits  those were his main 
areas of concern. The BSPS2 and PPF options were discussed with Mr D but he 
rejected them because they didnt enable him to achieve his objectives and because 
it meant he wouldnt get a clean break. Mr D didnt want to suffer the reduction in 
benefits under the PPF and he had genuine concerns regarding the long term 
viability of Tata Steel and what impact this might have on the BSPS2, which may 
ultimately end up being transferred to the PPF;
Advice process: Following the introduction by Firm L, it treated Mr D as a new client 
and started its advice process from scratch. It took care to make sure it provided 
information in plain English and walked Mr D through every step so that he could 
make an informed decision. Its advice was tailored to his circumstances and 
objectives. Mr D made clear that he had no intention of entrusting the security of his 
safeguarded benefits to Tata Steel, the BSPS2 or the PPF. He thought it was highly 
likely that the BSPS2 would end up being transferred to the PPF. And he made it 
clear that he had a strong preference to retire early by 60 or before. He wanted to 
draw his benefits flexibly in accordance with his needs and without penalty. He also 
wanted to nominate his preferred beneficiary to receive death benefits. The 
recommended personal pension met Mr Ds objectives. His objectives wouldnt have 
been met by the BSPS2 or PPF. He had time to review its recommendation for the 
personal pension, to raise any areas of doubt or confusion, consider his options and 
seek alternative advice if desired prior to proceeding. He couldve also made use of 
the 'cooling off' period. But he expressed no concerns at the time which suggested 
that he was satisfied with the advice to transfer;
Mr Ds understanding and acceptance of risk: Mr D's capacity for loss and attitude 
to risk was based on the information he provided which initially indicated that he was 
a moderately adventurous investor but it was agreed it would be sensible to 
downgrade this to a moderate risk investor following further discussion. It gave Mr D 
all the relevant risk warnings and talked him through the advantages and 
disadvantages associated with the pension transfer. He gave no indication that he 
didnt understand the recommendation or that he thought Wealthmasters had 
misunderstood his requirements. Mr D willingly signed the client declaration to 
confirm his understanding and acceptance of the information and recommendation 
outlined in its suitability report. It was therefore satisfied that its recommendation was 
in line with Mr Ds risk profile and that he made an informed decision to transfer 
regarding the risks associated with the transaction; and
FCA rules and guidance: It remain satisfied that it adhered to the FCAs rules and guidance in COBS. This included following the guidance contained in the video on 
the FCAs website regarding pension transfers published in August 2019.
Our investigators assessment
Our investigator thought that the pension transfer advice Wealthmasters gave to Mr D was 
unsuitable and that his complaint should therefore be upheld. His findings can be 
summarised as follows: 
Importance of safeguarded benefits: Mr Ds safeguarded benefits amounted to              
10 years and 6 months pensionable service and so represented most of the 
retirement provision he had built up by that point in time. And so hed be heavily 
reliant on the benefits to provide secure retirement income. While Mr D was building 
up additional retirement provision in his Tata Steel defined contribution pension plan, 
it was the case that he had limited other investments and savings upon which he 
could rely to support his desired standard of living in retirement. This meant he had 
limited capacity for loss to absorb financial loss in connection with the value of his 
safeguarded benefits;
Mr Ds concerns about Tata Steel and the PPF: He thought that Wealthmasters 
ought to have done more to allay Mr Ds misapprehensions about the security of his 
safeguarded benefits and explained that, in the worst case scenario, hed still receive 
90% of his pension entitlement if the BSPS2 ended up being transferred to the PPF;
Mr Ds circumstances: Mr D was 29 and single without anyone financially 
dependent on him which meant that the spouses pension offered by the BSPS 
wouldve likely been of less importance to him at the time. However, his 
circumstances, including marital status, would likely change over the following 30-
year period before he retired which may have increased the relevance of the 
spouses pension. There wasnt any evidence that Wealthmasters had recorded             
Mr Ds plans including whether he intended to get married or have children to help 
support its recommendation that it was suitable to relinquish the spouses pension 
and dependants benefits;
Critical yield: The critical yield figures shown in the TVAS report were likely 
unachievable. The required rate of investment growth to match the relinquished 
benefits was higher than the relevant discount rate of 4.7% per year for a 35-year 
investment time horizon published by this service and at the higher end of the FCA's 
projection rates for pensions. The TVAS report showed that a fund of £535,747.06 
would be required to match the safeguarded benefits and showed that income would 
run out at the medium rate of return by 79. As a result, he concluded that the pension 
transfer would likely lead to Mr D receiving lower overall retirement benefits under the 
personal pension;
Tata Steel defined contribution plan: Mr D was already building up additional 
retirement provision in a defined contribution plan through his employment with Tata 
Steel. By transferring to a personal pension, it meant all of his retirement provision 
would be on the same defined contribution basis, unnecessarily reducing his 
diversification and increasing his exposure to risk. There wasnt any evidence to 
suggest that Mr D had become more speculative to support the increased risks 
associated with a pension transfer to the personal pension;
Mr Ds risk profile: Wealthmasters initially assessed Mr D as having a moderately 
adventurous risk profile but changed this to a moderate risk profile following a discussion with him. But the investigator questioned whether Mr D had a more 
cautious risk profile bearing in mind the importance of his safeguarded benefits and 
investment inexperience;  
TVAS report: The assumed charges included in the TVAS report were understated 
because it didnt account for the initial and ongoing advice charges. As a result, the 
critical yield figure stated in the suitability report, and upon which Mr D made the 
decision to transfer, was understated. Notwithstanding this point, he noted that the 
TVAS report wasnt provided to Mr D. Rather, he was invited in the suitability report 
to request a copy. Our investigator thought that this was odd because TVAS reports 
are technical documents and something most people wouldnt understand. So to 
invite a client to request a copy to read rather than the adviser going through the 
document with the client in person was inappropriate;
Personal pension illustration: The illustration produced by the pension provider 
showed that the estimated annual pension was £5,870 at 60 based on mid-rate 
growth of 1.8%. However, as at the date of leaving the BSPS on 31 March 2017,                   
Mr Ds annual scheme pension was £4,848.34 which, with guaranteed revaluation in 
deferment over the 30 to 35 year period until retirement under the BSPS2, wouldve 
likely exceeded the projected pension provided by the personal pension at 60 and 
also continued escalating in payment;
Mr Ds early retirement objective: Wealthmasters stated that an early retirement 
quote wasnt available from the BSPS but hadnt provided evidence to show that it 
was requested. Wealthmasters didnt produce any comparative analysis to support 
its conclusion that early retirement under the BSPS2 or PPF wouldnt have been in 
Mr Ds best interests. Our investigator stated that Mr D was only 29 at the time and 
most people would prefer to retire earlier. But with 30 to 35 years to retirement and a 
likely change to Mr Ds personal circumstances, transferring at that time for potential 
earlier access to benefits wasnt a reasonable action to take. If Mr D had transferred 
to the BSPS2 then he wouldve retained the right for a transfer out of that scheme at 
a later date, if then deemed suitable. Furthermore, our investigator wasnt convinced 
that Mr D had a genuine need at that time for flexibility and control of his safeguarded 
benefits;
Mr Ds death benefit objective: He wasnt convinced that Mr D had an overriding 
desire to secure improved death benefits under a personal pension. This was 
because he was 29, unmarried and didnt have any children. The nominated 
beneficiary under the personal pension was his sister. While he accepted that Mr D 
wouldnt have wanted death benefits to be retained by the BSPS, as stated by 
Wealthmasters, he thought it likely that he may have wanted to retain the spouses 
and dependants benefits for a future potential need had he understood how valuable 
they were;
Charges: The charges associated with the pension transfer meant that the potential 
for investment growth on a moderate risk basis would be constrained. This was 
because the pension providers illustration showed that the projected annual growth 
rate on the recommended fund was 0.7% after charges. This contrasted with the 
critical yield figures which indicated that the pension transfer wasnt in Mr Ds best 
interests;  
Rushed approach: He was concerned that Mr D was given just one day to consider 
the suitability report before signing the transfer paperwork the following day. He 
thought that Mr D had limited time to properly consider the information given to him to enable him to make an informed decision regarding one of the biggest financial 
decisions hed likely ever have to make; and
Suitable advice: He concluded that suitable advice wouldve been for Mr D to 
transfer to the BSPS2 so that he could maintain safeguarded benefits. He thought it 
more likely than not that had Wealthmasters recommended the BSPS2 that Mr D 
wouldve accepted it.
To put things right, our investigator recommended that Wealthmasters carry out a redress 
calculation in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the basis that Mr D transferred to 
the BSPS2 and would be a 20% income tax payer in retirement. 
Despite several emails requesting its response, Wealthmasters didnt reply to our 
investigators assessment and recommendation to resolve this complaint. Therefore, this 
complaint has been referred to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. Having considered the evidence, I agree with the conclusion reached by 
our investigator and for much the same reasons. Ive set out below my reasons why.
The genesis of this complaint
Wealthmasters said that Mr D, through his Representative, only made this complaint in 
response to the negative media attention about BSPS pension transfers. It believes that the 
media coverage and solicitors advertising claims management services has led to many 
former BSPS members wrongly making claims for redress.
My view is that there could be any number of reasons why Mr D complained about 
Wealthmasters pension transfer advice. Im aware that in recent years the FCA identified 
that many steelworkers received unsuitable pension transfer advice and may have made 
poor financial choices, losing significant sums of money as a result. It therefore wrote to 
individuals, like Mr D, who transferred out of the BSPS to encourage them to revisit the 
advice that they received and to complain if they had concerns. The fact that Mr D made this 
complaint through his Representative doesnt mean its without merit, as I think is implied by 
Wealthmasters, or that hes acted unreasonably. Wealthmasters will, I hope, agree that, 
regardless of how his concerns materialised, Mr D is entitled to complain about its advice if 
hes concerned it was unsuitable.
Mr Ds Representative 
Wealthmasters is unhappy about the way in which Mr Ds Representative handled and 
presented his complaint. Its also concerned that the Representative isnt qualified to assess 
the suitability of its recommendation and that the basis of this complaint is therefore without 
foundation.Id like to assure Wealthmasters that my decision will be based on the contemporaneous 
documentary evidence. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
Ill reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. I hope this eases Wealthmasters concerns.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
Mr D was introduced to Wealthmasters by a separate business, Firm L. Wealthmasters then 
provided the pension transfer recommendation to Mr D. Following the pension transfer,                 
Firm L provided ongoing advice and servicing to Mr D in connection with his personal 
pension that received the transfer value from the BSPS.
Theres no dispute that Wealthmasters advised Mr D to transfer and that it therefore remains 
responsible for the suitability of the pension transfer advice thats been complained about.
Im going to set out below my impartial view on the suitability of Wealthmasters 
recommendation. Id like to make clear that the purpose of this decision isnt to address 
every point raised by the parties. So If I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its relevant or that it affects what I think is the right outcome. 
What follows isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
Wealthmasters advised Mr D but provides useful context for my assessment of its actions 
here.
The FCA sets the rules and guidance that businesses must follow when advising clients on 
pension transfers. Businesses are required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The suitability rules and guidance that applied are set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the
rules and guidance are to ensure that businesses take reasonable steps to provide advice 
that is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a 
level of risk beyond their investment objectives and risk profile. To ensure that this is the 
case, and in line with the requirements in COBS 9.2.2R, the business must gather the 
necessary information for it to be confident its advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this 
section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a 
fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involving 
safeguarded benefits  these were contained in COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client 
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with 
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients 
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to adhere to these rules and guidance because the FCA considers 
safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and guidance, 
businesses advising on pension transfers must start by assuming that the existing defined 
benefits scheme is suitable and only to recommend a transfer, which converts safeguarded 
benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients best interests. 
The FCA requires businesses to consider alternative, viable options to achieve the clients 
objectives to enable them to maintain their safeguarded benefits.
The important point to make here is that the FCA refers to clearly in its rules. In my view, 
borderline cases  those which appear evenly balanced as to whether to transfer or not  
dont meet the clearly requirement, as required by the FCA. Therefore, if I conclude that 
alternative options couldve met Mr Ds objectives and enabled him to maintain his 
safeguarded benefits, then its likely Ill find the advice to transfer unsuitable given the FCAs 
default position. Id also like to highlight that the FCA refers to contemporaneous evidence 
in its rules. This means that any further analysis carried out by Wealthmasters after its 
recommendation in response to this complaint is essentially irrelevant to my consideration of 
the advice given in 2018. In line with the FCAs rule, to determine suitability when the advice 
was given, I must base my decision on the evidence from the period leading up to and 
including February 2018 to decide whether Wealthmasters pension transfer 
recommendation was suitable and clearly in Mr D's best interests.
Mr Ds situationMr Ds situation at the time Wealthmasters advised him was somewhat unusual for the 
reasons set out in the background above. To recap, after the BSPS closed in                    
March 2017, Mr D was given in October 2017 three options regarding his safeguarded 
benefits in that scheme:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a personal pension.
Members had to choose which option they wanted by a deadline in December 2017. I 
recognise that Wealthmasters advised Mr D in February 2018 which was after the deadline. 
But I understand that there was still time up until March 2018 for Mr D to inform the BSPS of 
his decision.
Based on the above considerations and for the purposes of my decision, Ill work on the 
basis that Mr D had the three options listed above at the time Wealthmasters advised him in 
February 2018. Id like to acknowledge that the FCAs default position that advisers must 
start by assuming the existing defined benefits scheme is suitable didnt quite apply here. 
This is because maintaining safeguarded benefits in the BSPS wasnt an option for Mr D. 
But he could transfer to the BSPS2 and maintain safeguarded benefits in that scheme or opt 
for the guaranteed benefits offered by the PPF.
In line with the FCAs default position, its my view that Wealthmasters shouldve only 
considered a pension transfer to a personal pension if it could demonstrate, on the 
contemporaneous evidence, that it was clearly in Mr Ds best interests rather than the 
alternative options to either maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 or the guaranteed 
benefits offered by the PPF.
Ill now go on to consider the suitability of the pension transfer advice Wealthmasters gave to 
Mr D.
Critical yield, discount rates and risk profile
The TVAS rules applied at the time Wealthmasters advised Mr D. This required it to carry 
out a transfer value analysis and to calculate the critical yield applicable for the proposed 
transfer. The critical yield is the annual rate of investment return required on the invested 
transfer value, after charges, to match the capitalised value of the benefits offered by the 
defined benefits scheme (and at a different age, if selected) on the assumption that the value 
of the alternative pension is used to secure a lifetime annuity at the scheme normal 
retirement age  the higher the critical yield, the less likely that the alternative pension will 
achieve sufficient investment growth to match the safeguarded benefits under defined 
benefits scheme, which in this case was the BSPS. 
The TVAS isnt a precise tool or personalised to reflect individual circumstances and 
objectives. But a TVAS has a role to play where its likely the individual would use the 
accumulated fund at retirement to provide steady, secure income. So a TVAS was likely 
useful for a client, like Mr D, that intended to use their safeguarded benefits towards 
achieving a minimum retirement income objective  in his case, it was recorded that he 
required annual retirement income of £15,000 (in 2018 terms) from 60. As Ive explained 
below, its my opinion that Mr D would likely be heavily reliant on the value of his 
safeguarded benefits towards achieving this income need.
The critical yield also gives an indication of the value offered by the transfer value and the 
ability to secure comparable benefits on the open market. So its useful in that regard. Wealthmasters recommendation to Mr D was provided to him after the FCA gave 
instructions in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress 
for unsuitable DB pension transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount 
rates' in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being 
upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar rates were published on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. The closest discount rate 
which I'm able to refer to and published by this service for the period before October 2017 
was 4.7% based on Mr D taking benefits early at 60 or at the BSPS normal retirement age of 
65. Furthermore, the FCA's projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% per year for the 
upper rate, 5% per year for the middle rate and 2% per year for the lower rate. 
In contrast, using the TVAS rules, Wealthmasters calculated the critical yield figures in the 
table below based on a transfer value of £104,252.28 being invested in a personal pension. 
This showed the average annual investment return required by the personal pension to 
provide benefits of equal value to either the BSPS or PPF, as follows:
At age 60 based 
on a full pensionAt age 60 based 
on a reduced 
pension and 
maximum tax-
free cashAt age 65 based 
on a full pensionAt age 65 based 
on a reduced 
pension and 
maximum tax-
free cash
BSPS 5.48% 4.59% 5.13% 4.33%
PPF 4.36% 4.18% 3.92% 3.73%
I note that the suitability report stated that the critical yield figure at 65 based on Mr D taking 
the full pension was 5.73%. Its not clear where this figure came from or if it was a typo 
because the TVAS report stated the figure as 5.13%. However, even the figure of 5.13% 
appears to be incorrect. I say this because the TVAS report doesnt appear to include 
Wealthmasters initial adviser charge of £2,500 to be deducted from the transfer value (or 
that the calculation was based on a transfer value of £101,752.28 to account for this) or the 
ongoing adviser charge of 0.5% of the fund value payable to Firm L. The absence of these 
charges in the TVAS report meant that the critical yield figures in the table above were 
understated, implying less investment growth was required to match the relinquished 
safeguarded benefits than was actually the case. I havent seen evidence that the difference 
between the assumed and actual investment charges and the impact it would have on the 
critical yield figures was explained to Mr D before he accepted the recommendation to 
transfer.
Had the additional charges been included in the TVAS report, the critical yield figures for the 
BSPS wouldve likely been higher than the discount rate of 4.7% and mid-growth rate of 5% 
stipulated by the FCA, implying that Mr D would need to accept a medium to high degree of 
investment risk in the personal pension just to match the relinquished safeguarded benefits, 
let alone exceed them.
Im also conscious of the fact that Mr D was building up additional retirement provision in his 
Tata Steel defined contribution plan and the expectation was that this would, over time, grow 
to a significant pot of money upon which he could rely to help meet his retirement income 
need from 60. But by transferring to a personal pension it meant that he would concentrate 
his retirement provision on a defined contribution basis where the benefits received arent 
guaranteed but instead based on investment performance. Had he maintained safeguarded 
rights in the BSPS2 or the PPF, if necessary, hed have received guaranteed income from 
that source and benefitted from a more diversified approach, reducing the overall risk in achieving his retirement income need. This blended approach  utilising both defined 
benefits and defined contribution pensions to meet Mr Ds retirement income need  doesnt 
appear to have been considered by Wealthmasters, which Ill come on to later in my findings 
below.
Based on the above considerations, I think it was highly likely that Mr D would receive 
benefits from the personal pension of a lower overall value than the alternative option of the 
BSPS2 and even the PPF, if required, at retirement. And it seems Wealthmasters agrees 
because in its suitability report it stated, We have discussed these figures in great detail to 
ensure you fully understand the implications of yield requirement in excess of 5% per annum 
and the likelihood your portfolio may not consistently reach this annual performance level 
(even after taking high investment risks) and therefore not provide you with a comparable 
annuity income at retirement. So based on this alone, its my view that a transfer wasnt in 
Mr Ds best financial interests.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice, 
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or 
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and conversely, there 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this.
Wealthmasters rationale for transferring
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, Wealthmasters undertook its fact finding for Mr D and 
then set out its assessment of his circumstances and objectives regarding his safeguarded 
benefits. The latter, as set out in the suitability report, may be summarised as follows:
To retire early at 60 without reduction or penalty and to receive a desired annual 
income of £15,000 (in 2018 terms) with the ability to vary the level of income so that it 
could be withdrawn as tax-efficiently as possible; 
To provide a death lump sum benefit to his nominated beneficiary rather than the 
50% spouses pension provided by the safeguarded benefits because he was 
unmarried; and
To control his safeguarded benefits due to concerns about his future employment 
with Tata Steel and to remove the risk that his benefits might be transferred to the 
PPF.
Therefore, Ive considered Mr Ds objectives and concerns as stated in the three bullet points 
above. To make my findings easier to follow, Ive set them out under separate headings.
Early retirement, flexibility and income objectives
Wealthmasters stated the following in its suitability report regarding Mr Ds early retirement, 
flexibility and income needs:
As you intend to retire earlier than expected, you wish to have the facility to draw 
your pension benefits from age 60 without penalty. As you may require your pension 
income sooner than the British Steel pension schemes normal retirement age of 65, 
to hopefully enjoy a longer period of retirement.
As you cannot accurately predict how much of your income you will need at age 60, 
you anticipate requiring an annual of circa £15,000 per annum (in todays' terms) in retirement and you would like to have the flexibility to vary your level of income and 
not have to take all of tax free cash in one go, as you would like to make use of any 
personal tax allowances to minimise the effect of income tax on your pension 
income. 
And that his objective was as follows:
To retire at age 60 and have the ability to receive a tax efficient income and have the 
ability to vary your pension income to make use of personal tax allowance and where 
possible phase your tax free cash by taking it piecemeal, to further maximise tax 
efficiency. You are concerned that the British Steel will not meet this objective and 
you wish to consider an alternative pension arrangement to provide the flexibility you 
desire.
Wealthmasters said that the flexibility to draw varying levels of income and tax-free cash at 
different points in time from 60 onwards without penalty wasnt available through the 
alternative options of the BSPS2 and PPF. And that the only way to achieve this objective 
was by transferring to a personal pension. It said that the lack of penalty free and flexible 
income under the BSPS2 and PPF rendered those options unsuitable.
Im concerned about the way in which Wealthmasters established Mr Ds early retirement 
objective and annual income need of £15,000. I say this because its unclear to me why                
Mr D intended to retire earlier than 65, how the figure of £15,000 was determined or if it was 
realistic that he could retire at 60. It seems that £15,000 was a notional figure put forward by 
Mr D rather than being based on a proper analysis carried out by Wealthmasters. Theres no 
reference to this income need increasing in payment to counter the effects of inflation. 
Rather, it appears to be a fixed income requirement. This approach to determining a clients 
income need concerns me because if a clients objective is early retirement, then, in my 
view, its necessary to carry out adequate analysis to establish if this is achievable in order to 
support a recommendation to transfer. 
Many people might want to retire early. But this can only happen if they have the financial 
means to support themselves in retirement. Financial planning generally involves managing 
client expectations and a need for compromises. Mr D may have wanted to retire at 60 and 
be in receipt of annual income of £15,000. But it was for Wealthmasters to establish if this 
was feasible and to manage his expectations and, where applicable, help him modify his 
objectives to reflect the reality of his circumstances. Mr D was relying on Wealthmasters to 
provide expert advice in this regard.
In my view, where a client has a retirement income need at a specific age, the starting point 
is to establish a realistic target income based on the clients likely fixed outgoings, 
discretionary spending plans and excess income for saving. This information would then 
reveal the income required to cover the expected expenditure from the target retirement age. 
But in Mr Ds case, Wealthmasters didnt establish how he intended to spend his time in 
retirement or what his expected expenditure was likely to be based on an analysis of his 
outgoings. Rather, the analysis was on the basis that he required a notional annual income 
of £15,000 in 2018 monetary terms. The further away from retirement an individual is, the 
harder it is to establish a realistic figure. And in Mr Ds case, being 29 at the time of the 
advice, I think it wouldve been difficult to predict with a degree of certainty what his 
expected expenditure during retirement would be  and therefore what realistic level of 
income he would need from 60 onwards to cover this. With such a substantial time horizon 
until pension benefits could be accessed, it makes the case for a pension transfer  for the 
sake of achieving early retirement  more difficult to justify. It may well have been the case 
that a proper analysis showed that his income need was lower than £15,000 and couldve been comfortably met by the estimated income paid by the BSPS2 or PPF options in 
conjunction with his Tata Steel defined contribution plan and State pension. 
Wealthmasters didnt establish the estimated pension payable by Mr Ds Tata Steel defined 
contribution plan or his estimated State pension. It needed to carry out an analysis of Mr Ds 
estimated income streams from all sources during retirement so that it could determine what 
level of reliance would apply to his safeguarded benefits. If it was the case that the analysis 
showed that Mr D would be reliant on his safeguarded benefits to meet his income needs in 
retirement then it would seriously weaken the case for a pension transfer. This is because, 
where there is a need to generate a minimum level of retirement income as there appears to 
be in Mr Ds case, its difficult to justify relinquishing benefits that provide a guaranteed, 
minimum level of income in exchange for flexible income that doesnt have any guarantees. 
That is, unless the prospect of an alternatively secured guaranteed income, by way of a 
transfer and then annuity purchase, was likely to have produced a higher level of guaranteed 
income. But as illustrated above, and as also acknowledged by Wealthmasters, this wasnt 
the case here.
Could Mr D retire at 60?
Its my view that Mr Ds expectations around his target retirement age ought to have been 
better assessed and managed by Wealthmasters, for the reasons explained above.
Things would become clearer the closer Mr D got to 60 and his plans could be modified in 
response to this, but at 29 I think it wouldve been difficult to predict with any reasonable 
degree of confidence that hed be able to retire at 60. Due to this uncertainty, I dont think it 
was necessary to consider a pension transfer for the sake of early retirement at that time 
when the option of maintaining safeguarded benefits under the BSPS2 was available, which 
Ill come on to shortly.
But if its accepted that Mr D would retire at 60 and required an annual income of £15,000 
from that point onwards, then I make the following observations, largely on the basis that 
Wealthmasters said no option other than the pension transfer wouldve enabled Mr D to 
retire at 60. But I disagree, as Ive explained below.
Mr D had been an active member of the Tata Steel defined contribution pension scheme 
since April 2017 after the BSPS had closed to further benefit accrual. He and Tata Steel 
were, in total, contributing 16% of his pensionable salary into that plan. Despite concerns 
about the security of his employment, it appears Mr D intended to continue working full-time 
for Tata Steel for the foreseeable future. Wealthmasters recommended that he remain a 
member of that scheme and suggested in its suitability report that the value of this plan 
would contribute towards meeting his income need. It included the estimated value of the 
plan in its cashflow modelling. So I think its fair to say that the value of Mr Ds plan should 
be included in the analysis and what its estimated value would be on the basis that he 
remained an active member until his planned retirement at 60. 
I think Wealthmasters couldve reasonably expected that, based on Mr Ds salary, 
contribution rate and 31-year time horizon, about £174,000 in contributions wouldve been 
invested in his plan by the time he reached 60. Considering likely investment growth over 
that time and increases in contributions linked to rises in Mr Ds pensionable salary, I think 
its fair to say that the plan value would likely be higher than £174,000 at 60. Wealthmasters 
cashflow modelling indicates that the value of the plan would be greater than £250,000 so I 
think my assumption is a fair one.Its my view that access to the plan at 60 would easily cover Mr Ds income need for the five-
year period to his 65th birthday. Then, at 65, he could take an unreduced pension income 
from either the BSPS2 or PPF. 
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. In my view, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for Mr D given that it was clear he 
could delay drawing benefits until 65, as Ive set out above, and that his marital status may 
have changed during the following 36-year period. In terms of what income would be 
payable by the BSPS2 at 65, the following information is relevant.
The estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS and PPF was as 
follows:
Scheme At age 65 based on a full 
pensionAt age 65 based on a reduced pension 
and maximum tax-free cash
BSPS £11,741 £7,781 plus tax-free cash of £51,876
PPF £8,995.02 £7,202.11 plus tax-free cash of £48,014.12
At the time Wealthmasters advised Mr D, it was generally known that at 65 the BSPS2 would 
pay a higher level of benefits than the PPF but lower than the BSPS. So the income and tax-
free cash available under the BSPS2 likely fell somewhere between the figures above. I 
think Mr D would likely choose to commute some of his scheme pension in exchange for tax-
free cash. Based on the figures above, I think its fair to say that at 65 he could expect to 
receive from the BSPS2 a reduced pension of about £7,500 (which was broadly between 
£7,202.11 and £7,781) and tax-free cash of about £50,000 (which was broadly between 
£48,014.12 and £51,876).
In my view, he could then use, from 65, a combination of the annual scheme pension of 
£7,500 and either some of the tax-free cash of about £50,000 or any surplus money in his 
Tata Steel defined contribution plan over the three-year period from 65 to 68 to continue 
meeting the annual income need of £15,000 until he could start drawing his State pension. 
Given Mr Ds employment history by 2018, and expectations for the future, I think its fair to 
say that hed be entitled to the full State pension at 68. The full State pension in 2017/18 was 
£8,296.60. It increases each year in line with changes to the CPI. So, in 2018 terms, Mr Ds 
combined BSPS2 and State pension would provide total, combined annual income of about 
£15,796. So, it seems probable, that his core income need couldve been met from 68 
onwards by two guaranteed, escalating sources of income. The guaranteed escalation 
wouldve offered some protection against the effect of inflation. This contrasts with the 
alternative course of action recommended by Wealthmasters which assumed a fixed annual 
income of £15,000 for the rest of Mr Ds life with no account for the effect of inflation or the 
likelihood that hed need to increase his withdrawals to maintain his standard of living.
So, by adopting a blended approach of utilising his Tata Steel defined contribution plan, 
BSPS2 and State pension, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr D couldve maintained 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 and likely met his annual income need of £15,000 
between 60 and 68 and, based on Wealthmasters calculations, probably still retain surplus 
money in his defined contribution plan to meet any additional ad-hoc flexible income or lump 
sum needs. If receipt of the guaranteed and escalating BSPS2 and State pensions provided 
excess income over and above Mr Ds income need, this couldve been reinvested for future use. Its my view that in the above scenario Mr D would be heavily reliant on the BSPS2 to 
meet his core income needs during his retirement from 65 onwards.
In the event Mr D left the employment of Tata Steel, I think its likely that hed find alternative 
employment, albeit perhaps outside of the steel industry, and, with the legal requirements of 
auto-enrolment, would build up additional defined contributions elsewhere over the period to 
60. So I think its fair to say that at 60 hed likely have access to significant defined 
contribution pension savings which could be used to meet his income need for the five-year 
period between 60 and 65.
This alternative course of action Ive set out suggests that Mr D couldve maintained 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 and potentially achieve his early retirement objective. I 
havent seen any evidence that Wealthmasters properly considered this alternative option 
and presented it in a fair and balanced way to Mr D.
The pension transfer was portrayed by Wealthmasters in its suitability report as allowing for 
early retirement without the penalties which would be applied to the BSPS2 or PPF if 
benefits were taken before 65. It stated, As you intend to retire earlier than expected, you 
wish to have the facility to draw your pension benefits from age 60 without penalty and A 
personal pension would not penalise you or apply a reduction in benefits should you elect to 
retire early and take pension benefits from age 60.
The reality was of course that the personal pension wouldve had less time to grow if 
accessed before 65 and any resulting income would need to last longer. I cannot see that 
this was adequately explained to Mr D so he could understand that accessing the BSPS2, 
PPF or personal pension early would likely lead to reduced retirement income during his 
lifetime compared to taking benefits at 65.
In conclusion, its my view that Mr D made the decision to transfer from an uninformed 
position regarding achieving his early retirement and income objective. Im not satisfied that 
Wealthmasters demonstrated, on the contemporaneous evidence, that it was clearly in                   
Mr Ds best interests to relinquish his safeguarded benefits because it failed to carry out 
adequate analysis of Mr D plans, expected expenditure in retirement and his other sources 
of retirement income to meet his income need. In the absence of this analysis, I think 
suitable advice wouldve been to recommend the BSPS2 because, while the income 
provided was inflexible, it was guaranteed and escalated in payment. The pension transfer 
option offered no guarantees and exposed Mr Ds money to inflation, investment and 
longevity risk with no guarantees about how much income it would provide during his 
retirement.
Death benefit objective
Wealthmasters stated the following in its suitability report regarding Mr Ds death benefits 
objective:
The death benefits offered by the British Steel pension are of key importance to you, 
as you are not married, and one of your main concerns is that should you die your 
pension benefits would be retained by the British Steel Pension Scheme and you 
would prefer for them to pass to your next of kin.
The recommended personal pension offered flexible death benefits  nominated 
beneficiaries could choose to convert the fund value to secure a lifetime annuity, death lump 
sum or income drawdown or any combination of these. Based on the applicable tax rules, if 
death occurred under 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after 75 the benefits are 
taxed at the beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that immediately following the transfer to the personal pension and for the period until Mr D could draw any 
benefits from 55 onwards, the death benefits available would be significant (subject to 
investment performance) due to the simple fact he couldnt access and deplete the fund 
value for at least 26 years.
But Mr D was recorded as being in good health. So he could expect normal life expectancy
into his late 70s or early 80s. The value of his safeguarded benefits represented the 
backbone of his retirement provision built up by that time. And as Ive concluded above, I 
think Mr D would be heavily reliant on these benefits to meet his core income needs in 
retirement. Withdrawing money from the personal pension at 60 to help meet his recorded 
annual income need of £15,000 would likely mean that the size of the fund remaining in later 
years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than expected. 
In demonstrating that the pension transfer was clearly suitable and in Mr Ds best interests, 
Wealthmasters was required, under the FCAs rules, to consider alternative options to meet 
his death lump sum objective. As Ive noted above, Mr D had the alternative option to 
maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 which offered a 50% spouses pension which 
may have been a valuable feature in the future if he married before retirement. 
Wealthmasters was required to consider this and any other viable options. It said that Mr D 
wanted to leave his sister a lump sum from his personal pension. But, as Ive noted above, 
its questionable as to what death lump sum benefit might be available from the personal 
pension based on his life expectancy and the uncertainty about what money might remain in 
his personal pension on his death.
If it was a genuine objective for Mr D to provide a lump sum on his death, as asserted by 
Wealthmasters, then life cover couldve achieved the same objective of providing a lump 
sum to his sister while enabling him to maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2. I note 
that Mr D had disposable income available every month after paying his bills which he 
couldve used to pay for life cover to achieve the death lump sum objective. Pure life cover 
for a defined term is generally cheap and some cover may have been affordable for Mr D 
given he was 29 and recorded as being in good health. However, I cannot see evidence that 
Wealthmasters adequately investigated the life cover option. For example, I havent seen 
evidence that Wealthmasters quantified Mr Ds death lump sum need, over what term, how 
this might change over time, how it might be met by other means or present personalised life 
cover quotes to him to enable him to make an informed decision.
Its my view that Mr D had no health issues at the time Wealthmasters advised him which 
might reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to his own 
retirement income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for his sister. So Im not convinced 
there was any real merit in Mr D transferring to a personal pension at that time to provide a 
lump sum death benefit. Theres no real evidence that a death lump sum was required for   
Mr Ds sister.
But, in any case, I note that through his employment, Mr D had life cover based on a multiple 
of four times his salary, meaning a lump sum of about £140,000 would be paid in the event 
he died while still employed by Tata Steel  this was payable regardless of whether his 
safeguarded benefits were transferred to BSPS2, PPF or a personal pension. In addition, the 
value of his Tata Steel defined contribution plan would be paid as a lump sum to his 
nominated beneficiary(ies). So, it seems to me that in the immediate future, certainly while    
Mr D remained employed by Tata Steel, that a lump sum of at least £140,000 would be paid 
on his death. In addition, its likely that any equity released upon the sale of Mr Ds house 
following his death, which was then about £30,000 based on the outstanding mortgage 
relative to the value of his house, would be payable to his beneficiary. So I think its fair to say that there wasnt any immediate need to transfer at that time to 
provide death benefits bearing in mind the cover already in place while Mr D remained 
employed by Tata Steel. With no immediate health concerns, this existing cover enabled 
Wealthmasters and Mr D enough time to properly investigate obtaining additional life cover 
so that he could maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2.
Therefore, based on the above considerations, I disagree with Wealthmasters view that the 
only way to achieve Mr Ds death benefits objective was by transferring to a personal 
pension at that time. Given Mr Ds circumstances, I consider that the BSPS2 and even the 
PPF, if required, would likely offer better death benefits to his beneficiaries over the longer 
term compared to the personal pension taking into account the likely level of income 
withdrawals and Mr Ds life expectancy.
Mr Ds concerns about the PPF
The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat scheme to protect 
members of defined benefit schemes with the promise of providing a minimum level of 
benefits. The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending on his age on 
transfer to the PPF, Mr D could expect to receive a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension, 
although this would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates under the PPF. This 
contrasted with a personal pension where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits 
payable. In its 2016/17 annual report, publicly available at the time of Wealthmasters 
recommendation, the PPF stated that its overall financial position as at 31 March 2017 
remained robust, with an increase in its surplus funds to £6.1bn. There wasnt any reason at 
that time to question the financial viability of the PPF to provide benefits in the future.
Wealthmasters stated the following in its suitability report regarding Mr Ds objective to 
remove the risk that the value of his safeguarded benefits might ultimately be transferred to 
the PPF:
You are a deferred member of the British Steel Pension Scheme (Final Salary) and 
you wish to review the benefits options of the scheme and you are also concerned 
about the stability of the scheme going forward, in light of the proposed sale of the 
British Steel business by its parent company Tata Steel. You have stated that you 
have informed the British Steel scheme administrators that you have elected for your 
British Steel pension rights to migrate to the British Steel 2 (BS2) pension scheme. 
However, you stated that you do not want your pension to transfer to the BS2 
pension under any circumstance as you said in your own words, 'You Don't Trust 
British Steel', and you are concerned about the long term future of the scheme given 
the current outlook for the Tata business and the steel industry in the UK.
In other sections in the suitability report it stated that Mr D was concerned that all of his 
options relating to control and flexibility would disappear if the value of his safeguarded 
benefits were transferred to the PPF which would leave him with a reduced pension which 
he felt was grossly unfair. 
Had Wealthmasters advised Mr D to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained 
safeguarded benefits and retained the option to transfer to a personal pension at a later 
date, if then deemed suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, 
determine his retirement income and lump sum needs with greater accuracy than at 29. A 
transfer to the BSPS2 wouldve also removed any immediate concerns Mr D had about the 
PPF. After all, the whole reason the BSPS2 was conceived was to provide a new long-term 
defined benefits scheme for former members of the BSPS. And if it was the case, in the 
future, that the BSPS2 was at risk of being transferred to the PPF, then I think it likely that, 
similarly to the BSPS, members would be given the opportunity to transfer out to a private plan before any transfer to the PPF occurred. So I dont think that there was any immediate 
concern about options disappearing for Mr D or that there was an urgency to transfer to a 
personal pension at that time to avoid a transfer to the PPF.
In my view, Mr D was reliant on Wealthmasters to provide a fair and balanced assessment of 
the PPF and to act in his best interests in this regard. This ought to have involved discussing 
with Mr D the features, risks and benefits of the PPF and allaying his misapprehensions. But 
I dont think Wealthmasters did this given the lack of reassuring comments in its suitability 
report and instead allowed him to continue to believe that the PPF was an outcome to avoid 
at all costs. 
If Mr D was apparently concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the 
PPF which would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I have to also 
question why he would accept the risk of transferring to a personal pension which exposed 
him to unlimited downside risks where the loss could be significantly greater than 10%. It 
seems odd to me that Mr D wasnt prepared to accept the 10% reduction of his benefits 
under the PPF yet was apparently content to accept the unlimited downside risks associated 
with the pension transfer. This suggests to me that he didnt have the knowledge and 
experience to understand the features, risks and benefits of the PPF compared to the 
pension transfer. He was relying on Wealthmasters to provide expert advice on this point but 
I think it failed to do this.
Its therefore my view that Wealthmasters failed to adequately allay Mr Ds 
misapprehensions and that he therefore made the decision to transfer from an uninformed 
position regarding the PPF.
Did Mr D have enough time to consider Wealthmasters recommendation?
The evidence indicates that Mr D first met Wealthmasters in early February 2018. The 
suitability report was dated 12 February. On 13 February the personal pension application 
form was completed and signed by Mr D before being sent to the pension provider ahead of 
the deadline of 16 February to complete the transfer. So it seems that Mr D was required to 
make a complex decision, and possibly one of the most important financial decisions hed 
need to make during his lifetime, in a couple of days. I acknowledge that there was a 
deadline to complete a transfer. But this doesnt mean Mr D shouldve been rushed into 
making a complex decision. Overall, its my view that Wealthmasters didnt give Mr D 
enough time to consider the suitability report and other information to reflect upon his 
options. 
What should Wealthmasters have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Ds 
decision? 
During 2017, the situation was rapidly evolving and there were serious concerns relating to 
Tata Steel and the BSPS at the time Wealthmasters advised Mr D  and I fully acknowledge 
this. Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr D. But 
this only serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options 
available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice where a regulated advisory business 
was appointed. Any concerns Mr D had about the security of his benefits shouldve been 
addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in the transaction, 
Wealthmasters.
I recognise that there wasnt a perfect solution for Mr D. And that the value of his 
safeguarded benefits was ultimately his money to do with as he saw fit. However, he was 
relying on Wealthmasters to provide expert, balanced information and advice, taking into 
account all the information available to it at that time  so that he could then make an informed decision. I understand that there will be instances where a client seeks financial 
advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or 
pension scheme, but, as the professional party, Wealthmasters was tasked with rationally 
addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the available 
options.
Wealthmasters believes that a pension transfer was necessary at that time and that it fulfilled 
Mr Ds wishes. Financial planning isnt simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever 
course of action a client wishes to take. If an advising business considers a course of action 
to be unsuitable for their client, or otherwise not in their best interests, its incumbent upon 
them to explain this  and why. 
I acknowledge that this may misrepresent Wealthmasters position, and it was referring to   
Mr Ds expressed objectives, in that it wouldnt be up to an adviser or indeed this service to 
tell Mr D that he shouldnt have the aim of, for example, retiring early. That aside, however, it 
was nevertheless the responsibility of Wealthmasters to explain to Mr D why he didnt need 
to make any irreversible decision on relinquishing valuable safeguarded benefits at that time 
and that consideration of a pension transfer was a decision that could be delayed until                     
his plans and expected expenditure in retirement could be determined with greater clarity 
than at 29.
As Ive said above, there was no imminent prospect of the BSPS2 entering the PPF, which 
wouldve ruled out a later transfer. On the contrary, the indication was that the BSPS2 would 
be successfully implemented. Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service 
provided to Mr D was a balanced appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a 
robust and candid discussion about his own concerns relating to the BSPS. 
Mr D, amongst many others in a similar position, may have been concerned by 
developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, but he was nevertheless entitled to 
an impartial review of his options. And looking at those options, one of the key recorded 
objectives  early retirement  was, in my view, likely achievable within the BSPS2. For the 
reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and control of 
income outweighed the guaranteed benefits offered by the BSPS2, and Im satisfied that                 
Mr Ds income need likely couldve been met by a blended and well-planned access to his 
different types of accrued benefits by the time he came to retirement. The available evidence 
simply doesnt support the position as to why control or flexibility wouldve been sufficiently 
compelling reasons for Mr D to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees  especially at 29. 
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Ds concerns about the BSPS2 couldve 
been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed benefits, even 
under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income flexibility which he 
simply didnt need or could in any case access in other ways, such as through his defined 
contribution plan, and a future pension which would be entirely dependent upon investment 
returns  rather than being partially dependent upon them as would otherwise have been the 
case through the defined contribution plan. 
Death benefits were also payable from the BSPS2, albeit in a different format from those 
available from the personal pension. But for the reasons set out above, I dont think these 
shouldve been a more important consideration than Mr Ds own retirement guarantees 
which hed be relinquishing through the transfer. 
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished. 
Notwithstanding my comments about the critical yield likely being understated due to an 
incorrect assumption about the underlying advice charges, the critical yield was in any event 
higher than the discount rate and the mid band growth rate set out by the FCA, I think it was unlikely to be achievable, year on year, to even simply match the relinquished safeguarded 
benefits. This position is supported by Wealthmasters own analysis at the time. The 
justification for transferring was that it was nevertheless suitable in view of Mr Ds stated 
objectives and the concerns about the BSPS. And whilst I accept that the critical yield isnt 
the only factor to consider when weighing the suitability of a transfer, Im unconvinced by 
what Wealthmasters considers to have been the overriding justifications for proceeding with 
the transfer, for the reasons given above. 
Wealthmasters view is that Mr D was intent on effecting the transfer. But he was relying on 
Wealthmasters to provide expert advice and advise him what to do. I think the advantages of 
Mr D maintaining his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 coupled with his misapprehensions 
about the PPF being suitably assuaged, wouldve persuaded him to do just that.
Wealthmasters said that it gave Mr D all the necessary risk warnings and that he was 
required to take responsibility for his decision to transfer. I accept that Mr D was given risk 
warnings and was more likely than not capable of understanding them. But its important to 
note that disclosure isnt the same as suitability. If the recommendation to transfer was 
fundamentally unsuitable then the provision of risk warnings doesnt transform it into a 
suitable one. I dont disagree that properly informed, correctly advised individuals would be 
able to take that kind of responsibility and decide for themselves if they wanted to transfer 
their safeguarded benefits. The problem here is that this was a complex matter involving 
many factors with which Mr D, as a layman, wouldnt have been familiar  hence his reliance 
on a professional party to take those factors into account and provide suitable, balanced 
advice.
For the reasons given above, my view is that Mr D simply wasnt placed in a properly 
informed, or suitably advised, position to be able to take that kind of personal responsibility. 
His decision to proceed may well have been borne of wider concerns relating to the financial 
viability of the BSPS2, but as Ive said above, this was due to the absence of a detailed and 
balanced assessment of the schemes attributes and prospects in the advice process. 
Taking account of Mr Ds circumstances, risk profile, objectives and the guarantees provided 
by the BSPS2 and even the PPF, if required, my view is that Wealthmasters shouldve 
advised against the pension transfer. And I think that, had this happened, Mr D wouldve 
followed that advice and likely transferred to the BSPS2.
Conclusion
In its final response letter to this complaint, Wealthmasters said that the pension transfer 
was the only option available to meet Mr Ds objectives. I disagree. For the reasons 
explained above, Im not satisfied Wealthmasters demonstrated, on the contemporaneous 
evidence, that it adequately considered alternative options to meet Mr Ds early retirement or 
death benefits objectives or why it was clearly in his best interests to relinquish his 
safeguarded benefits to achieve these. Im also concerned that it appears to have 
misrepresented the true critical yield to match the relinquished benefits which meant Mr D 
made the decision to transfer from an uninformed position, further undermining the case for 
a pension transfer.
The key contributing factors here relate to inadequate consideration of alternative options to 
achieve Mr Ds stated objectives, likely understatement of the true critical yield required to 
match the relinquished benefits, the unbalanced and misrepresentative portrayal of the value 
of Mr Ds safeguarded benefits compared to the recommended pension transfer, exposing 
his significant retirement provision to more risk than he was likely willing and able to tolerate 
 all of which are a failure to adhere to COBS 2.1.1R, COBS 4.2.1, 9.2.2R, 19.1.2R, 
19.1.6G, 19.1.7G and 19.1.8G.In summary, my provisional decision was that it was fair and reasonable to uphold this
complaint based on the available evidence. I went on to set out what I considered was fair
compensation on the basis that Mr D had instead opted for the BSPS2. I asked both parties 
to this complaint to provide any further comments or evidence that they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. I gave the parties until 29 March 2022 to respond. 
The Representatives response to my provisional decision
Mr Ds Representative acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision. It didnt provide any 
additional comments or evidence for me to consider.
Wealthmasters response to my provisional decision
Wealthmasters didnt accept my provisional decision and provided substantial comments in 
response on 31 March 2022. Most of its comments repeated points previously made. It said 
that before making my final decision it wanted me to reassess all the available evidence and 
take into consideration several additional points. These additional points can be summarised 
as follows:
When it advised Mr D, it adhered to all relevant FCA rules and guidance. And it 
treated him fairly throughout and always acted in his best interests;
The situation concerning British Steel wasnt sudden. There had been discussions 
about the ongoing viability of the BSPS since 2016. So it was a topic of discussion 
amongst members long before it advised Mr D. Members were well informed about 
what was happening to the BSPS and their options. Therefore, it didnt agree that                    
Mr D made the decision to transfer from an uninformed position;
I had failed to consider a fourth option for Mr D which was to do nothing and remain a 
member of the BSPS. It would like me to explain why I didnt take this into account;
It agreed that at 29 it was difficult for Mr D to predict with certainty what his retirement 
needs would be but the decision to transfer was forced upon him due to the changes 
happening to the BSPS;
While it accepted my points about the incorrect critical yield figure presented to Mr D, 
it didnt believe this should in any way undermine its advice to transfer. It thought that 
I placed too much weight on the significance of the critical yield figure and discount 
rate applicable to Mr Ds case. This was because the critical yield doesnt take into 
account member circumstances, objectives, health, income needs, lump sum needs, 
taxation position, financial dependants, financial knowledge, experience and attitude 
to investment risk. Furthermore, the FCA issued an alert in January 2017 which 
warned businesses on attaching too much weight to the critical yield figure;
It cannot be proven at this time that Mr D is or will be in a financially worse off as a 
result of the pension transfer. Fund performance figures outperformed CPI over the 
past 25 years, suggesting that Mr D wont suffer a financial loss. In it opinion, the 
position cannot be established with certainty until Mr D takes benefits from his 
personal pension;
The British Steel situation was unique. Mr D had felt betrayed by his employer and 
lost all faith in the steel industry. Nobody forced him to transfer to the personal 
pension. The decision he made to transfer at the time was his own and right for him 
based on his circumstances. It was satisfied that he could understand the documentation given to him. He didnt express any concerns with the pension 
transfer at the time;
The FCA told it at a seminar that it accepted members had a deep mistrust of Tata 
Steel and so recognised transferring to obtain control of pension benefits was a valid 
reason to transfer. Mr Ds objectives and concerns about the future of the steel 
industry couldnt be met or alleviated by transferring to the BSPS2 or PPF. It still 
believed that the only viable option was a pension transfer;
It referred to Caroline Rookes report titled Independent review of communications 
and support given to British Steel Pension Scheme members published in                       
January 2019 and provided several excerpts from this that it considered to be 
relevant in deciding Mr Ds complaint. It said that this report proved members were 
forced to make a decision but were well informed about what was happening to the 
BSPS and their options; and
In the event that this complaint is upheld, it requested that the enhanced transfer 
value Mr D received be taken into account in the loss assessment calculation. 
Notwithstanding this point, it questioned how the Financial Ombudsman Service can 
direct it to assess Mr Ds financial loss now when he hasnt yet retired, and the future 
value of his personal pension is unknown. In its opinion, the loss assessment should 
be delayed until such time as Mr D retires. And if this shows hes made a financial 
gain, as a result of the transfer to the personal pension, that the surplus be assigned 
to it because it doesnt consider its done anything wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
The findings I made in my provisional decision and set out above form part of this
final decision. Ive carefully considered Wealthmasters comments in response to my 
provisional decision. Generally, what Wealthmasters has said isnt new information. In 
deciding this complaint, I dont think its necessary to respond to every point its made but I 
consider it appropriate to make the following points.
In response to my provisional decision, Wealthmasters said that it adhered to all relevant 
FCA rules and guidance when it advised Mr D. I disagree. As explained in my provisional 
decision, its my opinion that Wealthamsters failed to adhere to several FCA rules and 
guidance. To briefly recap:
Wealthmasters TVAS report didnt include the full range of charges applicable to the 
recommended pension transfer including the initial and ongoing adviser charge, 
meaning the critical yield figure disclosed to Mr D was understated, and therefore 
implying less investment growth was required to match the relinquished safeguarded 
benefits than was actually the case. In my view, the provision of an incorrect and 
understated critical yield figure to Mr D didnt adhere to the FCAs rules and 
guidance; andWealthmasters continues to assert that a pension transfer was the only viable option 
for Mr D. It mentioned that in discussions with the FCA it was accepted that members 
had a deep mistrust of Tata Steel and so recognised transferring to obtain control of 
pension benefits was a valid reason to transfer. But for all the reasons previously 
given, I disagree  a pension transfer simply wasnt Mr Ds only viable option here. It 
also failed to demonstrate, on the contemporaneous evidence, that it was clearly in 
Mr Ds best interests to transfer rather than the alternative options to either maintain 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 or the guaranteed benefits offered by the PPF. 
Therefore, he made the decision to transfer from an uninformed position. In my view, 
the inadequate assessment of alternative options to meet Mr Ds objectives didnt 
adhere to the FCAs rules and guidance;
In summary, I concluded that Wealthmasters failed to adhere to COBS 2.1.1R, COBS 4.2.1, 
9.2.2R, 19.1.2R, and didnt have sufficient regard for 19.1.6G, 19.1.7G and 19.1.8G when it 
advised Mr D. Nothing Wealthmasters has said in its response to my provisional decision 
changes my opinion on this.
With regard to the situation with Tata Steel and the BSPS, I acknowledged in my provisional 
decision that it was unique and a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr D 
who were essentially forced to make a decision as part of the Time to Choose exercise. 
And I also recognised that he felt let down by his employer which led him to seek advice on 
whether to transfer out of the BSPS. I acknowledge that Mr D was provided information 
about his options before he met Wealthmasters. But, for the reasons explained, I thought 
Wealthmasters failed to provide a balanced assessment of the options available and 
ultimately the provision of suitable advice, as it ought to have done. Nothing Wealthmasters 
has said in its response to my provisional decision changes my opinion on this.
Wealthmasters has also said that there was a fourth option for Mr D which was to do nothing 
and remain a member of the BSPS. It would like me to explain why I didnt take this into 
account in my provisional findings. But on the first page of my provisional decision I explicitly 
stated that members that didnt choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately 
transferred to the PPF. So I was aware of the outcome had Mr D decided to do nothing and 
took this into account. In my provisional findings I explained my reasoning about why I 
thought that, with suitable advice, the BSPS2 and not the PPF would have been the better 
option for Mr D.
Wealthmasters said that I placed too much weight on the importance of the critical yield in 
my provisional findings. I disagree. It was a regulatory requirement to calculate the critical 
yield at that time. Notwithstanding the fact that Wealthmasters produced and disclosed an 
incorrect and understated critical yield figure to Mr D, I explicitly stated that financial viability 
isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice, as set out in COBS 19.1.7B 
(G). And that there might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite 
providing overall lower benefits. I then went on to look at those other considerations before 
provisionally deciding Wealthmasters advice was unsuitable because it didnt clearly 
demonstrate  on the contemporaneous evidence  that it was in Mr Ds best interests.
As for the proposed redress methodology, Wealthmasters requested that the enhanced 
transfer value Mr D received be taken into account. I can confirm that the transfer value paid 
to the personal pension should be used in the calculation. Wealthmasters believes that Mr D 
should be required to assign to it the surplus money in his personal pension if the loss 
assessment shows he hasnt suffered a financial loss. As previously explained, Mr D 
wouldnt be required to pay money to Wealthmasters in the event of a no loss scenario; that 
simply isnt part of the FCAs redress methodology for unsuitable pension transfers. As for 
the timing of the loss assessment, it isnt appropriate, as suggested by Wealthmasters, to 
delay this until such time as Mr D draws benefits at 65 to align with the scheme normal retirement age under the BSPS2. The regulators redress methodology makes no provision 
for delaying a calculation until the members normal retirement date. This is in order to bring 
finality to such matters, without the member needing to wait until they retire. I also consider 
that its fair and reasonable for a loss assessment to be carried out as soon as possible and 
on the basis Ive set out below.
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr D, as closely as possible, into the position hed be in but for 
Wealthmasters unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of Mr Ds safeguarded benefits isnt 
possible. Therefore, Wealthmasters should undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
pension review guidance as updated by the FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance 
for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My view is aligned with that of our investigator in that, had Mr D been properly advised, he 
wouldve opted to transfer to the BSPS2 rather than the PPF. Ill explain why. 
There would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas 
the BSPS2 wouldnt reduce the starting entitlement for deferred members. The reduction for 
early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors for tax free cash 
entitlement were also more favourable than the BSPS2. And so, on the basis of prospective 
early retirement, both the starting income and the tax-free cash would likely have been 
higher with the PPF. But for the reasons set out above, I think its likely that, properly 
advised, Mr D wouldve envisaged accessing his Tata Steel defined contribution plan in the 
first instance to make up any income shortfall in the period between 60 and 65 before 
starting to take his safeguarded benefits, which could then have been deferred until normal 
scheme retirement age of 65 (or as close as possible to 65, reducing the impact of an early 
retirement reduction). In terms of death benefits, if it later became relevant for Mr D, under 
the BPSP2 the spouses pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, 
and this would be calculated as if no tax-free cash was taken at retirement. Furthermore,   
Mr D had actually elected to transfer to the BSPS2 before he met Wealthmasters. And so its 
the benefits offered by the BSPS2 which should be used for comparison purposes. 
As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out using the 
most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. This should be on the 
basis Mr D takes benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65. Wealthmasters may 
wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds contribution 
history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details 
should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take into 
account the impact of leaving the BSPS on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss 
should if possible be paid into Mr Ds personal pension. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
personal pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the personal pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional 
deduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% 
of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to 
Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this. 
The compensation amount should where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date 
Wealthmasters receives notification of his acceptance of any final decision. Further interest should be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of any final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
that 90 day period, that it takes Wealthmasters to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
I think that this matter will have caused Mr D trouble and upset. He would naturally have 
been very concerned about a potential reduction in his pension benefits as a result of the 
unsuitable advice given to him. So I think Wealthmasters should pay £300 to Mr D in respect 
of this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
Determination and money award: I require Wealthmasters to pay Mr D the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000. Where the 
compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Wealthmasters to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the 
compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require             
Wealthmasters to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000. 
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Wealthmasters pays Mr D the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as 
set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D were to accept this final decision on the above basis, the determination and money 
award would be binding on Wealthmasters. My recommendation wouldnt be binding on 
Wealthmasters. Further, its unlikely that Mr D could accept this final decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this final decision.
The loss assessment calculation must be provided to Mr Ds Representative in an easy to 
understand format.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd must redress Mr D as Ive
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman