DRN-1747601
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) was irresponsible to lend to 
him.
What happened
Mr S had two loans from Mr Lender between June and December 2017 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 28 Jun 2017 £300 6m £106 1 Dec 2017 29 Dec 2017
1 deferral
2 29 Dec 2017 £400 6m £156.26 15 Jun 2018 Transferred to DCA*
* Debt Collection Agency
Mr S says Mr Lender didnt carry out proper affordability checks and, had it done so, it would 
have found the repayments were unaffordable to him. He says he had to borrow money 
elsewhere to make the repayments and couldnt pay priority bills.
Mr Lender says it asked Mr S for information about his income and outgoings and checked 
his credit file. It says it considers its checks were proportionate and the loans met its 
responsible lending criteria. However, as a gesture of goodwill, Mr Lender offered Mr S a 
£25 retail voucher and said it would remove any adverse information from his credit file.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He found that 
Mr Lender had carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available 
information to indicate the lending was unsustainable.
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that he didnt agree with the outcome and didnt receive 
Mr Lenders final response so did not have a chance to accept its offer. He added that he 
had multiple short-term loans at the time, had exceeded his credit card limit and also had a 
large outstanding loan. Mr S said that if Mr Lender had asked to see his bank statements it 
would have seen his income fluctuated and he had a gambling problem. He also says that 
his repayment history on loan 1 indicated he was in difficulty as well as loan 2 being bigger 
than loan 1. However, Mr S said he would now accept the goodwill offer from Mr Lender.
Mr Lender confirmed the offer it made was no longer available to Mr S.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make sure Mr S 
could afford to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr S was borrowing, and his lending history. But 
there was no set list of checks Mr Lender had to do.
Loan 1
Im satisfied Mr Lender did enough checks when it assessed Mr Ss first loan application and 
there was nothing in the available information to indicate the repayment was unaffordable.
Loan 2
Mr Lender asked Mr S about his income and expenditure and carried out a credit check 
before it approved loan 2. Im satisfied these checks went far enough because:
This was only Mr Ss second loan with Mr Lender and the repayments were a small 
proportion of the £1,900 income hed declared;
Mr Lender was entitled to rely on the information provided by Mr S at this stage of the 
lending relationship;
Mr Lender calculated Mr Ss disposable income to be £430, making the highest 
repayment of £156.26 affordable to him;
I accept Mr S says he had other short-term credit commitments at the time, but Mr Lender 
asked him to declare such repayments when it asked for his expenditure. I also 
acknowledge that Mr S deferred one of his repayments on loan 1 by paying only interest for 
one month, but I dont consider that to be evidence on its own that Mr S was in financial 
difficulty.
Ive seen the results from Mr Lenders credit checks at the time and there was nothing to 
indicate it should have carried out further checks or that the lending was unsustainable. I 
accept Mr S says his bank statements would have shown a fluctuating income and a 
gambling problem, but Mr Lender was not obliged to request bank statements before making 
its lending decision and I find the checks it did carry out were proportionate to the 
circumstances of the loan applications. Si I cant conclude it was wrong to approve loan 2.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman