DRN-3042920
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc, trading as Tesco Bank, wont refund to him 
the money that he paid to a travel company. 
What happened
Mr S used his Tesco Bank credit card to make two payments to a travel company. He paid it 
£7,524.49 in July 2018 and £7,284.08 in August 2018. He says that he was contacted about 
reclaiming money that hed paid for a timeshare and was offered free overseas 
accommodation for him and his wife but he would have to pay for the flights. He bought 
flights and attended a meeting when overseas about his claim. He says that the first 
payment was made to register his claim and that he was required to make the second 
payment after hed returned home for his claim to be progressed.
He didnt receive any of the money that hed paid for the timeshare and says that he then 
saw a television programme about a scam being operated by the travel company and its 
related claims company so he claimed a refund of the payments that hed made to the travel 
company from Tesco Bank under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Tesco Bank said that Mr S hadnt proved that the merchant verbally communicated the claim 
information to him so it didnt consider that there had been a misrepresentation and couldnt 
say that there had been any breach of contract. Mr S wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
the main reason that Mr S made the purchase from the travel company was that it would be 
getting him compensation for a previous timeshare within 60 days and he thought that the 
travel company had misrepresented its ability to obtain compensation for him. He 
recommended that Tesco Bank should rework Mr Ss credit card account as if the payments 
hadnt been made.
Tesco Bank has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that 
the actual contracts have clear breakdowns and none of them give any detail about a 
compensation claim being an additional paid service that formed a part of the contracts. It 
also says that the claim company said that no payment was necessary for the claim service 
due to it being no win - no fee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against 
the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Ss complaint about Tesco Bank, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the travel company and 
that Tesco Banks response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  
but Im not determining the outcome of Mrs Ss claim under section 75 as only a court 
would be able to do that;
Mr S says that he was contacted about reclaiming money that hed paid for a 
timeshare and was offered free overseas accommodation for him and his wife but he 
would have to pay for the flights;
he says that he was assured that he would definitely get back the money that hed 
paid for the timeshare and I consider it to be more likely than not based on the 
evidence that hes provided that he travelled overseas because hed been told that 
he needed to do so to progress his claim;
when he was overseas in July 2018 he says that he was told that hed have to pay 
£7,524.49 to register his claim and he and his wife signed an accommodation 
contract with the travel company which described the accommodation that was 
included in his subscription  there was no reference in that contract to his timeshare 
claim but I consider it to be more likely than not that he made that payment to the 
travel company and signed the accommodation contract because he was told that he 
needed to do so for his claim to be registered;
Mr S made another payment in August 2018 after hed returned home for £7,284.08 
and one of the documents that was provided to him in connection with his payments 
listed the services that were to be provided to him as: Compensation (third party), 
Enjoy travel services, Free holiday gifts, 3 weeks accommodation, Sovereigns;
Im not persuaded that its likely that Mr S would have made the payment in August 
2018 for accommodation as hed already made the payment to the travel company in 
July 2018  and I consider it to be more likely than not that he made the payment 
because hed been told that he had to do so for his compensation claim to be 
progressed;
Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr S received compensation under his timeshare 
claim or that he received services that justified the payments that hed made; 
the travel company has stopped trading and Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr S 
has used any of the accommodation to which he should have been entitled (other 
than the accommodation that he used in July 2018);
Mr S has also provided information about compensation claims from the travel 
company and its related claims company and e-mail exchanges about a 
compensation claim; and
I consider it to be more likely than not that Mr S was induced into making the 
payments by misrepresentations that were made about his compensation claim and 
that he wouldnt have made the payments if those misrepresentations hadnt been 
made to him so I find that his complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Tesco Bank to rework 
Mr Ss credit card account on the basis described below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and order Tesco Personal Finance plc, trading 
as Tesco Bank, to:1. Rework Mr Ss credit card account as if the payment of £7,524.49 hadnt been made 
in July 2018 and the payment of £7,284.08 hadnt been made in August 2018 
(including crediting to the account the foreign exchange fees that were charged) and, 
if that puts the account into credit, to pay interest at an annual rate of 8% simple on 
the credit balance for the periods that the account was in credit - it should also refund 
the credit balance to Mr S.
2. If Mr S has repaid the payments of £7,524.49 and £7,284.08 (or any part of them) to 
Tesco Bank but doesnt have a credit balance, to pay interest on the amount that he 
has repaid at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman