DRN-3908866
The complaint
Mrs X is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined a claim under 
her home emergency policy. Mrs X has also said the customer service she received in 
respect of that claim was poor.
What happened
Mrs X has home emergency insurance cover with RSA. On 7 November 2022, she 
contacted RSA to make a claim under the policy. She explained she had mice at her 
property, and so needed someone to attend and deal with the emergency.
Mrs X says she was told someone would visit her property on 8 November 2022. But she 
wanted in for someone to attend, and no one did. Ms X said she was then told someone 
would attend on 9 November 2022. But later was told no one would be coming, because she 
didnt have cover under the policy for the incident.
Mrs X was unhappy with this. She explained she had paid for home emergency cover, and 
this wasnt being provided to her in this instance. She also explained that she had waited at 
home on two days for expert attendance, and it didnt come. Mrs X said this meant she 
wasnt able to work, and lost funds in that respect.
RSA considered Mrs Xs complaint. It acknowledged that it didnt act fairly by telling Ms X it 
would attend twice, when this wasnt to be the case. RSA offered £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience of this. But, in terms of Mrs Xs claim, RSA said it was right to decline it. RSA 
said Mrs Xs policy only provided cover for 2 incidents of removing rats or mice in one policy 
period, and Mrs X had already exhausted this limit. It also said the pest expert wouldnt 
attend the property due to health and safety reasons.
Mrs X was dissatisfied with RSAs response. So, she referred her complaint to this service, 
for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think RSA needed to do anything 
differently. Our investigator said that RSA had acted fairly by saying the claim wasnt 
covered  because Mrs X had already used up her policy limit for visits in relation to rats and 
mice at the property. 
Our investigator thought the £50 compensation offered for the confusion and upset caused 
by telling Mrs X it would be attending in November 2022, and then not arriving, was fair and 
reasonable. So, she didnt recommend that RSA do anything more.
Mrs X didnt agree and reiterated the inconvenience she had experienced by waiting for 
experts to arrive, that never came. Mrs X said she made two claims, with a possible third. 
And didnt think RSAs statement on non-attendance for health and safety reasons for 
correct, or fair.
Because Mrs X didnt agree, her complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied the £50 compensation already offered by RSA is a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint. So, I require it to pay Mrs X this. 
I appreciate this is going to be disappointing for Mrs X. Its clear she feels strongly about the 
matter. But Id like to reassure the parties that I have considered all information provided by 
both parties when coming to my decision. And Ive explained the reasoning for my decision 
below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether RSA 
acted in line with these requirements, when it declined to settle Mrs Xs claim. And I think it 
did.
Ive reviewed Mrs Xs policy documentation, to see what cover this provided, for instances 
where vermin  such as mice or rats were present at the property. Having done so, I can see 
the policy does provide cover for removing mice and rats from inside the home.
But as is common with insurance policies of this nature, there are some terms and 
conditions surrounding this cover. And Mrs Xs policy explains that it will not pay for more 
than 2 incidents in any one insurance period. So, if Mrs X had already had two incidents for 
the removal of rats and mice in the insurance period when she contacted RSA in November 
2022, then Im aware there would be no cover under the policy for another incident.
Ive looked at the incidents Mrs X reported. And Mrs X has already had two incidents in the 
policy period. I can see incidents in April, May and June 2022. So, Im satisfied that when 
Mrs X called in November 2022 for a further incident, there was no longer any cover under 
her policy for this. Because of this, I dont think RSA has done anything wrong by saying the 
incident claimed for in November 2022 wasnt covered. 
RSA also said to Mrs X that it couldnt attend due to health and safety issues at the address. 
Its noted on a number of occasions that the kitchen needed to be cleared and cleaned, in 
relation to the problems being experienced. And RSA has said it couldnt visit until all rooms 
had been made accessible. I havent needed to focus on this issue  because in November 
2022, it was right for RSA to decline the claim, as cover was exhausted. So, this doesnt 
make a difference to the outcome of this complaint.  
I do think that RSA should have told Mrs X this when she called in November 2022 though  
rather than arranging appointments, for them later to be cancelled. Mrs X was told she would 
have a visit on 8 November 2022, and again on 9 November 2022. And she had to chase 
RSA to understand why the appointments had not been kept. It was only when Mrs X 
chased the matter again on 9 November 2022, that she was told the visits wouldnt be 
happening. I can see how this would have been distressing and inconvenient for Mrs X.
Ive thought about what would be fair and reasonable to put the problem with the above 
appointments right. And I do think providing compensation to Mrs X for this trouble and upset 
is fair. But Im satisfied the £50 already offered is a reasonable figure. I say this because I 
think it recognises the inconvenience of Mrs X having to stay in, and wait for attendants that 
never arrived, and for having to call to chase this. Mrs X feels the compensation should be higher than this, as she wasnt able to work on the 
days she was waiting indoors, so lost wages. But I havent seen any evidence that Mrs X 
had a job booked in for those days, and therefore lost funds. And Mrs X has confirmed she 
has no evidence of this. So, I dont make an award in this respect there is no evidence of 
financial loss linked to RSAs error with the two appointments.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that the £50 compensation already offered by Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited is fair and reasonable. So, RSA should pay this to Mrs X. 
I dont require Royal Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do anything more than that in respect 
of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs X to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman