DRN-3947334
The complaint
Mr A complains that chargeback claims were declined by SumUp Payments Limited. 
What happened
Mr A made various card payments for travel arrangements and services between January 
2022 and April 2022. Mr A went on to raised chargebacks claims and has told us his travel 
arrangements were cancelled by various merchants hed paid. 
Chargeback claim forms were submitted for the transactions Mr A was looking to reclaim. 
SumUp responded and said that to process chargeback claims it needed further information 
from Mr A, including evidence hed attempted to resolve the situation with the merchants and 
obtain refunds directly. Mr A went on to explain that hed been unable to speak with the 
merchants over the phone and had emailed them instead. But Mr A explained responses 
werent received and refunds werent made. 
In September 2022 Mr A attempted to raise further chargeback claims with SumUp. Again, 
SumUp asked Mr A to provide supporting information and evidence that hed attempted to 
obtain refunds directly with the merchants involved. Ultimately, SumUp didnt agree that the 
information Mr A submitted showed hed made reasonable attempts to obtain refunds 
directly from the merchant. 
SumpUp didnt submit Mr As chargeback claims to Mastercard, the card operator and no 
refunds were issued. SumUp later took the decision to close Mr As account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
concerning the overall timeline for Mr As complaint. Mr A raised a number of chargeback 
claims and was asked to supply evidence hed attempted to obtain refunds with the 
merchants directly. Mr A says the information hes provided shows he made reasonable 
efforts to obtain a refund directly, but SumUp isnt persuaded thats the case and has 
declined to process his chargeback claims. I want to assure all parties Ive read and 
considered all the information on file, including all the correspondence Mr A has sent 
showing his contact with the merchants. 
Mr As advised that he was unable to contact the merchants over the phone and obtain 
refunds. But Ive looked at the various merchants claims were raised against and I was able 
to find customer service numbers for them online. Ive looked at all the correspondence Mr A 
has sent us but I havent been persuaded that SumUp acted unfairly when it requested he 
contact the merchants again to try and resolve the problems and obtains refunds directly 
before it processed the full chargeback claims. 
Ive also reviewed the other information Mr As provided to SumUp in support of his claim. 
But Im not persuaded SumUps decision was unfair, taking into account that its unclear 
which party made the cancellations or whether flights were cancelled as claimed. And I dont 
think it was unreasonable for SumUp to ask Mr A to take further steps to try and obtain 
refunds directly in the circumstances. 
SumUps explained its bound by the chargeback scheme rules which are set by Mastercard. 
The Mastercard chargeback rules require card holders to attempt to obtain refunds with the 
merchant before a claim will be approved. As SumUp didnt think the information Mr A had 
supplied showed reasonable efforts to obtain refunds had been made, Im satisfied it acted 
fairly by declining to complete full chargeback claims on his behalf. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but as Im satisfied SumUp dealt with his complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman