DRN-2941504
The complaint
Mr R said Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly gave him loans that 
he couldnt afford.
What happened
Lending Stream gave Mr R  loans as follows:
Loan Date 
takenDate repaid Instalments Amount 
borrowedHighest 
combined 
repayment*
130/11/2015 11/12/2015 6 £100.00 £42.40
211/01/2016 01/02/2016 6 £150.00 £63.60
309/03/2016 24/03/2016 6 £150.00 £63.60
417/06/2016 29/06/2016 6 £200.00 £84.80
507/09/2016 03/03/2017 6 £50.00 £21.20
608/09/2016 10/09/2016 6 £50.00
710/09/2016 03/02/2017 6 £80.00
825/09/2016 14/12/2016 6 £50.00 -
927/09/2016 03/03/2017 6 £100.00 -
10 05/02/2017 29/03/2018 6 £150.00 -
11 10/02/2017 30/04/2018 6 £200.00 -
12 04/09/2019 Outstanding** 6 £300.00 £97.97
*combined repayment amount where loans overlap
(Ive included only limited information about the loans that Lending Stream offered to uphold 
as I wont be discussing these in any detail in my decision).
When Mr R complained to Lending Stream it upheld his complaint in part. Lending Stream 
said that it had gathered information from Mr R and done its own independent checks to 
ensure the loans it provided were affordable  and it believed that loans 1  5 and loan 12 
were all affordable for him. But it accepted that it hadnt been a good idea to provide 
loans 6 - 11. So Lending Stream offered to put things right for Mr R and refund him in line 
with what wed expect a lender to do in these circumstances. Lending Stream also offered to 
remove adverse information it had recorded about loans 6  11 from Mr Rs credit file. 
Mr R didnt feel this offer went far enough so he brought his complaint to us and one of our 
adjudicators investigated the circumstances in which all these loans had been provided. 
After carefully reviewing all the available information and considering this complaint, our 
adjudicator thought that he hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair that Lending Stream had 
provided loans 15 or loan 12. But he said Lending Stream shouldnt have provided loans 6 -
 11 to Mr R. Our adjudicator explained why he felt these loans should be upheld. He also set 
out the steps he said Lending Stream should take to put things right for Mr R which largely 
reflected the offer Lending Stream had previously made  except that our adjudicator 
recommended that all information about loans 6  11 should be removed from Mr Rs credit 
file.
Lending Stream reconsidered its position in the light of what our adjudicator had said and 
told us that it was willing to accept the outcome of our adjudicators finding. 
Lending Stream sent us details showing the figures it had worked out and we forwarded this 
information to Mr R. 
Mr R isnt happy with this proposed settlement. He mainly says that bar a minor change this 
proposed settlement is the same as the original business offer  which he rejected.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr R could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive independently looked at Mr Rs complaint afresh and Ive carefully considered all of the 
arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and what this all means for 
Mr Rs complaint. Ive come to the same overall view as our adjudicator. But Ill say a bit 
more about why I say this  and even though its not the outcome Mr R is looking for, I hope 
this is helpful in explaining my decision.
As Lending Stream has agreed to refund all interest, fees and charges in relation to 
loans 6  11 and to amend Mr Rs credit file in line with what our adjudicator recommended, 
I havent considered these loans further save to include them in the redress. Im 
concentrating on the loans that our adjudicator didnt uphold  especially loan 12 which Mr R 
feels strongly shouldnt have been lent. He told us that he has paid very little towards this 
loan due to the fact that he couldn't afford it with his other ongoing credit which a credit 
check would have shown.
Loans 1-5
Ive thought carefully about the information Lending Stream recorded for Mr R, including 
income and expenditure details from the time and the checks it carried out. I've taken into 
account the loan repayment amounts and what was apparent about Mr Rs circumstances at 
the time.
Looking at the repayments that Mr R needed to make on loans 1-4, the amounts wouldve 
seemed relatively affordable compared with the disposable income hed declared. Given 
these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Rs circumstances at the time, and 
his borrowing history at that stage with Lending Stream, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Lending Stream to ask Mr R for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first four loans. 
Although loan 5 was a relatively low amount and the smallest loan Mr R had requested from 
Lending Stream I do think Lending Stream should have considered if it needed to look 
further into Mr Rs circumstances before agreeing this loan. He had first approached Lending 
Stream for a loan around 10 months earlier and he had been borrowing more or less 
continuously throughout that period with only limited gaps in lending. But, after taking into 
account everything Mr R has sent me, including a credit report, I havent seen anything in 
the information available to me which shows Lending Stream would have decided not to 
agree this loan had it done so. So I agree with our adjudicator about not upholding these loans  and as it seems Mr R 
hasnt mentioned any specific objection to what our adjudicator has said about these loans, 
then I don't think I need say more about loans 1-5. 
Loan 12
Like the adjudicator, I think the gap in lending between loan 11 and loan 12 was long enough 
for Lending Stream reasonably to think that Mr R had put his finances in order as it would 
seem that he hadnt been dependent on high cost short term loans during this period. This 
meant that when his borrowing started again, and Mr R applied for loan 12 in September 
2019 around 16 months after hed paid loan 11, he was effectively starting over. So I think it 
was fair for Lending Stream to treat this as a stand-alone loan application (rather than his 
twelfth application in a row) and assess his lending requests accordingly. 
Before lending to Mr R, Lending Stream asked Mr R for information on his financial situation, 
such as his monthly income and his outgoings. It also asked about any other credit 
commitments and carried out credit checks. 
As Mr R was effectively making a fresh start in terms of his borrowing I think Lending Stream 
could reasonably rely on the information Mr R provided. Looking at the monthly loan 
repayment amounts and the loan term, and the information Lending Stream had on record 
for Mr R, including what it appears Mr R told Lending Stream about his monthly income and 
what he was paying out each month and also spending on other credit, this didnt point to the 
loan being unaffordable for Mr R. 
Lending Stream independently checked Mr Rs income which led to it downgrading the 
amount of take home pay it thought he could rely on. After taking this into account, along 
with his other spending, including a figure of around £75 each month it appears he told 
Lending Stream he was spending on other credit expenses, Mr R still shouldve had more 
than £900 left over to pay for this loan. As the biggest monthly repayment due on this loan 
was less than £100, this wouldve looked comfortably affordable for Mr R.  
Im sorry that Mr R had a problem with debt and that repaying this loan has proved difficult 
for him. I accept that in reality Mr Rs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected 
either in the information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained. 
But wed expect Lending Stream to decide Mr Rs lending application based on the 
information it was reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Lending Stream to lend  especially as there wasnt 
anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr R wouldnt be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way. And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Lending 
Stream to probe any more deeply into Mr Rs finances or ask Mr R to prove what he was 
declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to 
say) about his financial circumstances. This is why Im not planning to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint about loan 12.
So, as things stand, I agree with the way the adjudicator suggested resolving the complaint. 
Its in line with our approach when thinking about whats fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances, bearing in mind that Mr R has had the benefit of the money he borrowed.
So I think Lending Stream should now do what it has agreed to do to put things right.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr R has sent me some additional information about his financial situation and told me that 
around the time he took out loan 12 he would apply for loans until accepted  which 
wouldve shown up as soft searches on his credit history.   
Lending Stream has confirmed it will settle the complaint in line with what I've said in my 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this complaint. 
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and for responding to my provisional decision. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Id like to assure Mr R that I've thought carefully about everything again before 
coming to my final decision. But he hasnt provided me with any new information that 
changes what I think about this case. For the reasons set out more fully in my provisional 
decision I think Lending Stream was reasonably entitled to rely on the information he 
provided when he applied for loan 12  and its lending decision wasnt unfair given the 
information it had gathered. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Lending Stream should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr R, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr R may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere particularly as a relationship existed between 
Mr R and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was 
even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr R in a compliant 
way at this time. Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr R would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Lending Streams liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So Lending Stream should do the following in respect of loans 6 - 11: 
Lending Stream should buy back any outstanding debt it sold if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Or if Lending Stream isnt able to buy back the debt, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the following:
A) add together the total of the repayments made by Mr R towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 6 - 11, not including anything already refunded
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr R which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr R originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled
C) If there is still an outstanding balance owing on loan 12 then the amounts calculated in 
A and B should be used to repay any balance remaining outstanding. If this results in a 
surplus, then that surplus should be paid to Mr R. However, if there is still an outstanding 
balance, then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr R. 
Lending Stream shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal already written-
off.
D) The overall pattern of Mr Rs borrowing for loans 6 to 11 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so Lending Stream should remove these loans entirely from Mr Rs 
credit file.  
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and direct Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) to 
take the steps Ive set out above to put things right for Mr R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman