DRN-3357103
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave him unsuitable investment advice. He 
says Barclays recommended too much of his money was invested and that the investment 
was too risky for him as an inexperienced investor.
The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims management company. For ease, I will 
refer to everything as if its been said by Mr H.
What happened
Mr H sought investment advice from Barclays following receipt of a compensation lump sum. 
Barclays recommended he invested £70,000 in its growth portfolio.
Mr H says he didnt have any investment experience, so the medium risk portfolio was too 
risky for him. And that he was advised to invest too much money.
Barclays said a medium risk profile was suitable for Mr H in his circumstances because he 
had more than 10 years until retirement; he understood the risks involved in the investment 
but wanted the potential for more favourable longer term returns; and he had enough cash 
reserve for any losses not to impact his day to day living. Barclays offered Mr H £250 as a 
gesture of goodwill for the time it took to respond to his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that the 
investment met Mr Hs objectives and that he was left with a reasonable cash reserve, so the 
investment was affordable for him. She also concluded that he seemed to be comfortable 
with the risk he was taking because he held the portfolio for 17 years.
Mr H didnt agree. He said, in summary, that he hadnt invested before and, whilst he wanted 
to achieve the potential for greater returns, this could have still been achieved with a lower 
risk portfolio.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays provided Mr H with investment advice more than 20 years ago. Its not surprising 
that, due to the passage of time, some of the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or 
contradictory. In circumstances like this, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  
in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having carefully considered everything, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator for the following reasons:
Mr H received £78,000 compensation payment and, when he met with Barclays in July 1998, 
he was going to receive a further £31,000 in around three months. His only liability was a 
£5,000 loan which he repaid. And he had enough income to meet his day to day 
expenditure. Barclays recommended he invested £70,000 which left him a cash reserve of 
£3,000  plus the £31,000 that he knew he was going to receive very shortly. So his cash 
reserve represented more than 30% of his available funds which, taking into account that he 
was satisfied that he had enough income to cover his day to day expenses, doesnt seem 
unreasonable.
Mr H was assessed as having a medium attitude to risk. Barclays describes this as:
You are a more typical investor, requiring a proportion of your savings to be in cash form. 
For the remainder of your investment, you are prepared to see a greater degree of 
fluctuation than the low risk investor, in return for a potentially higher level of long-term 
growth.
I cant say with any certainty what was discussed during the meeting and how much 
information was given to Mr H about risk and reward when investing. He says he should 
have been assessed as having a low attitude to risk because he was a first-time investor. 
But, just because someone hasnt invested before, it doesnt automatically follow that they 
are only prepared to take a cautious approach. In Mr Hs circumstances Im satisfied that it 
was more likely than not that Barclays provided enough explanation about risk levels for 
Mr H to understand the relationship between risk and reward, and that he accepted he was 
prepared to take a medium level of risk.
I dont think a medium risk portfolio was unsuitable for Mr H. As noted earlier, hed been left 
with enough cash reserves. He had more than 10 years until his planned retirement and he 
didnt expect his circumstances to change before then. So I think there was enough time for 
Mr H to replenish his investment if some of it was lost. And he was prepared to invest for at 
least five years so his time horizon for the investment gave it time to grow.
Had Mr H thought the level of risk was too high for him, I wouldnt have expected him to 
keep the investment for as long as he did  around 17 years  or to add money to the 
investment (he paid in eight lump sums totalling £20,000 from 1999 to 2006).
Mr H had no need for income from his investment and he wanted his capital to grow. The 
objective of the recommended portfolio was high level of capital growth which Barclays 
described as:
The level of income is not a factor. You are exclusively concerned with the growth of 
your capital over the longer term.
The portfolio was made up of a range of equities and fixed interest stocks including 
Government securities and some oversea holdings indirectly through unit trusts and 
investment trusts. Im satisfied the portfolio offered a diverse spread of assets. And that the 
investment reflected Mr Hs objectives and attitude to risk.
Overall, I dont find Barclays gave Mr H unsuitable advice taking into account his 
circumstances at the time.
When Mr Hs representative complained on his behalf to Barclays, it said that the advice 
meeting took place in 1996 which was too soon after Mr Hs wife had passed away and that 
he wasnt in the position to make an informed decision. But Barclays told Mr Hs 
representative that the meeting actually took place in 1998. The timing of the meeting wasnt 
referred to us as part of the complaint, so I think Mr H, and his representative, probably 
accept what Barclays has said. Theres nothing that Ive seen which would suggest Mr H 
wasnt able to make an informed decision in 1998.Barclays offered to pay Mr H £250 as a gesture of goodwill because of the time it took to 
respond to his complaint. Mr H can contact Barclays if he still wants to accept this offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman