DRN-1187734
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about the effect of negative information recorded on his credit file.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H said he wasnt aware of a balance owed on his Lloyds' account and he was 
unhappy negative information about it was recorded on his credit file. He feels 
that information is still having an effect resulting in him paying a higher interest rate 
on a loan he took out and not being able to get other credit. And he wants 
compensating for this.
I can only require Lloyds to pay compensation if I think its done something wrong 
resulting in a proven loss to Mr H. But in this case I dont think Mr H has shown 
either. 
Lloyds has an obligation to accurately record the conduct of Mr Hs account on his 
credit file. And as the account had a negative balance I think it acted appropriately at 
the time by recording this on his credit file. Even though Lloyds said its staff couldve 
done more to tell Mr H of the remaining debit balance on his account, the simple fact 
is the relevant charges that put the account into a negative balance position were 
clearly brought to his attention in the account statement sent to him. 
Lloyds has already  as a goodwill gesture - cleared the outstanding balance on the 
account and removed the negative data from Mr Hs credit file. That is fair. 
Mr H suggests the information Lloyds recorded on, but later removed from, his credit 
file has recently led to him paying a higher interest rate on a loan and not being able 
to get credit. But Ive seen nothing to suggest this is the case.
Taking everything into account, although I recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling and 
frustration, I think Lloyds has acted fairly and I dont think I can reasonably require it 
to do anything more or differently, including paying him any compensation as hed 
like.
 
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman