DRN-3943418
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the performance of a stocks and shares ISA held with HBOS 
Investment Fund Managers Limited (HIFML). He was also unhappy that he hadnt received 
annual statements for his ISA.
Mr C said that the ISA had performed poorly in relation to other ISAs over the same time 
period so he wants compensation for this.
What happened
In 2007, Mr C invested £7,000 into a portfolio of funds within a stocks and shares ISA 
provided by HIFML. When he obtained a valuation in March 2021, he was unhappy to learn 
that the ISA had not increased in value as much as he had expected. He told Halifax that he 
was very disappointed that the investment had only increased by £5,000 in 14 years and 
complained about this. He said hed expected his initial investment to have at least doubled 
over the 14 years he had invested.
Halifax didnt uphold his complaint. In brief summary, it said:
the funds Mr C was invested in were unit linked and values rise or fall based 
on the daily performance of the underlying assets 
the unit linked funds did not offer any guarantees in respect of growth or a set 
value and performance wasnt guaranteed
value had increased by over £1,000 since the last statement date in October 
2020
arrangements had been made to re-send the annual statements that Mr C 
had said he didnt recall receiving.
Mr C didnt feel that this response went far enough to address his concerns, given that hed 
been provided with illustrations that suggested his original £7,000 investment could reach 
£14,000 after 5 years  whereas the value of his investment fell short of this after 21 years.
Halifax apologised for the fact that the funds hadnt performed as Mr C had hoped and 
expected but said it wasnt a case that his investment had been mismanaged. Rather, the 
illustrations had reflected a time when annual returns on investment had been higher and the 
projections were based on assumptions about future growth based on the experience of 
similar products maturing at that time. Halifax said that since his policy started, there had 
been periods of lower inflation and lower market investment returns, due to various world 
events and political decisions it mentioned that had impacted on confidence in the market. 
Halifax said it had kept Mr C updated and sent him information showing the potential 
amounts by which his pay out might fall short of the original target and presented him with 
alternative options.  
In continuing correspondence, Halifax acknowledged the frustrations Mr C had expressed 
with regards to receiving statements but assured him that these had been issued and said it 
wasnt in control of what happened to them in transit and it couldnt say why he hadnt 
received these after it had sent them.
Mr C told Halifax that he believed the most likely explanation for him not receiving 
statements was negligence on the part of those responsible for issuing them. 
Halifax didnt agree it had done anything wrong and said it had updated Mr Cs address 
details in 2016 and issued automated statements to his home address every year. 
Nevertheless, in recognition of his frustration and disappointment, Halifax sent Mr C a 
cheque for £75 as a gesture of goodwill. 
When our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint, she didnt uphold the complaint. She 
explained why she had come to the view that the evidence shed seen wasnt enough to 
persuade her that Halifax had done anything wrong and she couldnt say the £75 goodwill 
offer was unreasonable.
As Mr C disagreed with our investigator, the complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C had a number of other concerns about this ISA which have been addressed elsewhere. 
So I am just concentrating in this decision on his specific complaints about the performance 
of the funds and the lack of account statements. 
I appreciate how strongly Mr C feels about this complaint. I want to assure him that Ive 
carried out an independent review and considered everything he has told me. We provide an 
informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive approached the 
complaint. Whilst Ive summarised his concerns in my own words and I wont necessarily 
refer to everything Mr C has raised in correspondence, I will concentrate on his main points 
of concern and comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the 
complaint.  
Poor performance of Mr Cs investment 
The investigator said that the illustrations Mr C wouldve seen for the plan were clear that the 
performance of the policy wasnt guaranteed, and the amounts shown were simply 
illustrations of what he might receive assuming various growth rates. She also explained why 
she was satisfied there were reasonable explanations for why the policy hadnt grown in the 
way Mr C and HIFML may have anticipated.
In response to the investigators view, Mr C said: This plan's disastrous performance had 
very little to do with Brexit or the pandemic and equities quickly recovered after 2008. The 
disastrous performance of the plan was simply due to the fact that it was mis-sold for all the 
reasons alluded to here and in my previous correspondence with the bank.
Mr C didnt dispute what the investigator said about it being clear that performance wasnt 
guaranteed  and this isnt the way hes framed his complaint. So, I dont think I need to say 
much more about this  except that I agree with the investigator. And, like Mr C, I will 
concentrate on what HIFML said about the reasons that explain poor performance.
HIFML sent Mr C the fund factsheet for the fund his plan is invested in showing the assets 
the fund holds. Mr C invests in unit-linked funds. This means value is determined by unit prices, or prices of the funds in which he invests, which vary according to how well the 
underlying assets are performing in the financial marketplace during daily trading activity.  
HIFML also explained to Mr C that it shared information on its website about how his plan 
had performed in relation to the benchmark (in other words, the value the plan aimed to 
achieve through investment) and told Mr C how he could track fund movements and fund 
performance and see this information covering the last five years. HIFML referred to a series 
of events over the lifetime of Mr Cs investment which it said had detrimentally affected 
global and UK financial markets. 
Looking at values shown on Mr Cs annual statements, it seems reasonable to me that the 
value of his fund can reasonably be explained by the volatility there has been in the financial 
markets over the lifetime of his investment and especially since 2016, when key events like 
Brexit and Covid wouldve impacted (likely in an adverse way) on the performance of Mr Cs 
investment. 
So I think its reasonable for HIFML to draw parallels between events beyond its control and 
the way Mr Cs investment has performed.
Although I recognise that Mr C is concerned that HIFML mis-managed his investment, what 
he says about this isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his complaint on this 
point. 
On balance, I find that HIFML has satisfactorily addressed his complaint about fund 
performance and I havent seen evidence that poor performance is the result of any error on 
the part of HIFML. 
So this is why Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint about the return his investment has 
achieved.
Mr Cs missing statements
A key part of Mr Cs complaint is that regular annual statements he was expecting to 
receive in the post didnt arrive.  
In order to uphold his complaint about HIFML, I would need to see enough evidence to 
show that it did something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way. 
HIFML checked its records going back to 2012 which showed that automated annual 
statements had been issued to Mr C. 
 
It provided copies to Mr C of the annual statements produced in the previous five years on 
the following dates:
15/10/16 
15/10/17 
15/10/18 
15/10/19 
15/10/20 
HIFML has confirmed that it checked Mr Cs contact information and it had held the correct 
address for him throughout the time hed had this account.
Our investigator mentioned that there had been no reported issues about customers not 
receiving statements when Mr C expected to receive his.I have no reason at all to doubt that Mr C is certain about what hes told us. But I also have 
to give due weight to the information HIFML has provided. The matter for me to decide is 
whether Im persuaded HIFML sent the statements. I must look at all the available 
information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance of probabilities. This means 
making some reasonable assumptions where theres only limited information. And I must be 
impartial.  
From what HIFML has told us about its established process for sending statements to Mr C 
and keeping in mind that Mr C did safely receive statements at the expected time in 2020 
and 2021, on balance, I dont find that the available evidence is enough to support Mr Cs 
complaint that HIFML failed to send him the other statements he had expected to receive in 
the post. 
I cant fairly hold HIFML responsible for any possible problems with postal deliveries or other 
matters beyond its control. 
I appreciate that Mr C will be disappointed with my decision but I hope that settings things 
out this way has been helpful. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman