DRN-1507164
The complaint
Miss Ms complaint concerns the decision by The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited to refuse her claim for critical illness benefit.
Miss M says Royal London has left her with unreasonable options whereby she will either 
have to accept an unfair exclusion or cancel her policy altogether.  
What happened
Miss M applied for a personal protection plan with Royal London (trading as Bright Grey) on 
12 August 2015. Her application was made through an independent financial adviser and 
submitted online. The policy provides life and critical illness cover for a 23-year term, along 
with waiver of premium and total and permanent disability benefits. It came into force on 19 
August 2015.
In her application, Miss M made several disclosures about smoking, a type of blood disorder, 
a type of skin condition and non-specific breast pain. Her policy was accepted on standard 
terms. 
In December 2018, Miss M contacted Royal London to make a critical illness claim. She had 
sadly been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis (MS) following a stay in hospital and some 
recent symptoms in 2017 and 2018.
Royal London sought medical evidence from both Miss Ms treating consultant and her GP.
On 18 January 2019, Miss M sent an email to Royal London after she had now had sight of 
her medical records. She said she could see that she had visited her GP in 2013 regarding 
intermittent leg twitches and some tingling sensations in her thighs. However, she became 
pregnant at that time and these symptoms stopped.
Miss M said she now realised this is information that Royal London may have needed to 
know about in 2015. She said she had life and critical illness insurance for some 20 years 
and always tried to be as meticulous as possible when answering questions put to her. Miss 
M said she was unsure as to why she didnt disclose these symptoms along with all the other 
disclosures she made. Her best guess was that it was insignificant and/or she simply forgot 
it, around the time when she discovered she was pregnant. 
Miss M also said she was sent a neurology referral over one year later, but she did not recall 
what is was for and had to call her GP. As she didnt need the appointment, she cancelled 
it. 
Miss Ms consultant returned a claim form to Royal London that same month. It also noted 
an appointment had been made for Miss M at hospital for March 2019. 
Royal London told Miss M it would review the awaited reports alongside her medical records 
and the explanation she had given regarding the symptoms of 2013. 
In February 2019, Royal London wrote back to Miss Ms GP. Though it had now received a medical report, it needed further information. Miss Ms GP said it needed further consent 
from Miss M to do so, and this prolonged the time taken for a reply.
Royal London received a full reply from the GP in late March 2019. That reply said Miss M 
had some symptoms back in 2013, but these had seemed to resolve after taking Vitamin D.
On 4 April 2019, Royal London wrote to Miss M noting she had failed to answer two policy 
questions correctly. These related to having had any previous neurological complaint and 
any other medical appointments or tests Miss M may have had in the five years preceding 
the application. As Miss M had since recalled, she was recorded to have suffered from an 
eight-week history of tingling in 2013 which led to the neurology referral that Miss M did not 
attend (because by 2014 the symptoms had resolved). Royal London asked Miss M for a 
further explanation as to why she didnt give positive answers to those two questions. 
In an email of 8 April 2019, Miss M reiterated the comments she had made already in 
January. She said:
 
when completing the application with the IFA, she didnt recall the symptoms, the GP 
visits or the referral;
at no time since has she mentioned these symptoms, appointments or referral to any 
other medical professional;
she did not link these symptoms in to her more recent medical history of optic neuritis 
in 2017 and her eventual MS diagnosis;
this is borne out by her discharge letter from the hospital in December 2018 which 
confirms she has only had one previous neurological event (in 2017);
now she has seen the paperwork Royal London sent that asked her to check her 
answers, she believes she simply forgot about these symptoms;
she had an unplanned pregnancy at the time of the symptoms and other personal 
issues  this meant she had a lot going on;
the reason she sought the insurance in 2015 was because she was a single mother 
and felt it appropriate to review her protection;
she could simply have left her existing life and critical illness cover in place, but she 
felt it was right to review it;
she realises that some applicants might withhold information to conceal it but that is 
not the case with her circumstances as she made other disclosures;
she did answer honestly and to the best of her knowledge at the time;
if she had concerns about her health, she wouldnt have cancelled her old policy;
she works in a role which requires ethical behaviour and she would not intentionally 
try to deceive an insurance company.
On 18 April 2019, Royal London told Miss M that it couldnt pay the claim. It said that it 
accepted Miss M had not deliberately attempted to conceal information, but nonetheless it 
should have been told about her symptoms. If it had known about them, its underwriters 
would have excluded any claim for multiple sclerosis from the policy. 
Royal London asked Miss M to confirm if she either 1) wished to continue with her policy on 
the same premium but with the exclusion applied or 2) void her policy altogether and return 
the premiums she had paid from the outset. The letter also gave Miss M referral rights to this 
service.  
Miss M said she did not want to accept either option. She gave her consent for her IFA to 
write to Royal London on her behalf.The IFA asked Royal London to reconsider its decision because:
 
what Miss M was diagnosed with in 2013 was a Vitamin D deficiency, and therefore it 
did not occur to her to disclose any symptom of tingling;
the GP has provided a statement to confirm this;
she did not consider Vitamin D supplements to be treatment;
the fact she did not require the appointment and could not recall what it was for 
shows how reasonable it was that she overlooked it;
Miss M has had full critical illness cover since 2000 and did not need to change it 
because of her health  instead it was simply a review of her circumstances and the 
increased number of critical illness definitions that prompted the new application;
it questions the retrospective underwriting as at 2015;
the IFA did a comparable application with the disclosure of tingling and the 
requirement to take Vitamin D supplements and Royal London said "based on the 
attached I cannot confirm that we will definitely offer standard rates but there is 
nothing to suggest we wont;
two other insurers said it would have likely offered standard terms;
Miss Ms consultant neurologist has confirmed that there is no clear link between her 
symptoms of 2013 and the diagnosis in 2018;
the consultant also confirmed Miss M made no mention of the GP appointments in 
2013 when questioned extensively about her medical history;
this is because Vitamin D supplements would be ineffective at resolving an episode 
of MS symptoms and therefore the symptoms in 2013 cannot have been caused by 
underlying MS.  
Royal London replied in July 2019 noting it was unwilling to change its mind. It appreciated 
that Miss M hadnt tried to wilfully conceal information. But it remained of the view that it had 
asked clear questions. It said it wasnt up to a policyholder to decide what was relevant or 
not  Miss M should have disclosed her symptoms because these affected its underwriting 
decision.  
Miss M brought the complaint to this service. She said she had taken out her cover in good 
faith with the aim of reducing her mortgage if she ever fell seriously ill. This had now 
happened, yet she was left with a mortgage liability. She said the medical evidence showed 
the episode of 2013 was unrelated to her diagnosis now. Miss M believes the claim should 
be paid in full.
Miss M also said she felt Royal London was placing her under unfair pressure to decide 
what to do with her policy, but she wanted the matter to be reviewed by this service before 
she decided what to do.
An investigator reviewed the complaint, but she did not think it should succeed. She noted 
three questions in the application that she thought could have been answered differently. 
She believed Miss M ought to have disclosed her GP visits in 2013. And because of that, 
she considered what Royal London would have done if it had received the right answers to 
the policy questions. Since she felt the policy exclusion was reasonably applied, she couldnt 
ask Royal London to do anything more. The investigator believed it had been right to reject 
the claim and refuse the complaint.
Miss M asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. She said she disagreed 
that she was asked a clear question about her medical history, specifically that she wasnt 
reasonably aware of the history and therefore she was unable to recall it. The fact the 
question was set up as asking about neurological symptoms led her to discount the episode of 2013. This was evidenced by the fact she did not tell the neurologist about it in 2018, 
before any claim was made to Royal London. She said she truly believed the symptoms 
were related to her diagnosed Vitamin D deficiency.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Miss Ms diagnosis and her current circumstances. I know this 
decision will be disappointing for her, but I agree with the outcome reached by our 
investigator albeit for slightly different reasons. Im not going to be asking Royal London to 
pay her claim.
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. In Miss Ms 
case, she identified herself that she may have unintentionally omitted relevant information 
from her policy application.
If the circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may 
have occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at 
that time. That is what Royal London has done. It says if it had known about the three GP 
visits Miss M had in 2013, it couldnt have insured her for MS. Because of this, it cant pay a 
claim now. I agree with this reasoning for the reasons Ill set out below.  
Ive looked at the policy application. I note our investigator has referred to three questions on 
the policy application that she felt were not answered correctly  one asks Miss M if she ever 
had a number of diseases including MS. Another asks if Miss M has attended any other 
medical appointment, if shed had treatment, medication, or undertaken tests in the last five 
years and the third says:
 
Do you have, or have you ever had, any of the following?
Any neurological complaint, numbness, dizziness, involuntary shaking, loss of feeling, 
tingling of limbs or face, or temporary loss of muscle power or coordination.
Firstly, I do not take the same view as our investigator that there was a misrepresentation or 
failure to disclose information relating to the MS question. Miss M hadnt suffered from it or 
any of the other listed conditions at the time of the application.
Royal London says the last two of the questions should have elicited a differing response. 
Though I believe Miss M should have disclosed her GP appointments, I place less weight on 
the five years question because it was a catch-all question asking a very wide range of 
information. There is relevant guidance from the ABI setting out best practice for insurers. 
That Code is something I have considered here, and it says how insurers can expect 
customers to answer clear questions carefully, accurately and to the best of their knowledge 
and belief. However, not much weight should be given to catch all or memory test 
questions.
Nonetheless, I agree with both Royal London and our investigator that the question I have 
set out in full above relating to neurological complaints should have been answered 
positively.I know Miss M did not ever think of her brief symptoms as a neurological complaint. I also 
appreciate that she has given a detailed explanation as to why she didnt say yes to the 
question and I recognise that she has given a credible account as to her difficult 
circumstances in 2013. Even so, I think she should have told Royal London about the 
symptoms she had suffered from, no matter what the suspected cause. And I can see Miss 
M accepts that she should have done something different at the time too.
Ive looked carefully at the correspondence sent by Bright Grey to Miss M following the 
application. And I believe that correspondence was explicit in the setting out to Miss M what 
the repercussions might be when giving a wrong answer to her medical questions. It said:
I enclose a copy of the application form containing the information asked for and the 
answers given to me. Because we use this information to make a decision about 
the terms we offer, its important that it is accurate and complete. If any 
information in this form is incorrect, missing or misleading, we may not pay any 
future claim. Please take the time to thoroughly check the application form within this 
documentation pack and tell us about missing or inaccurate details.
The letter went on to give common examples of things an applicant may forget. It also 
reiterated several times how the failure to ensure the right information was provided could 
lead to Royal London not being able to pay a future claim.
I recognise Miss M couldnt recall the appointments right away, but I think on reflection it 
was, or should have been clear to her that she had suffered from tingling of her limbs and 
loss of feeling.
The question doesnt ask about the cause of the symptoms. The question is clear  it simply 
asks if she has ever had any of the complaints on the list. Miss M had suffered from these 
issues. And whilst she might have disregarded them as a Vitamin D deficiency, the policy 
and the checking details letter say directly how if youre not sure whether to include any 
further information, please include it anyway. Its better to provide us with more information 
than not enough so that were able to pay a claim - instead of not paying a claim because 
you didnt tell us something that would have affected the terms we offered.
I therefore believe there was a misrepresentation. And once thats been established, 
relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts says that it should be classed as 
either deliberate/reckless or careless.
I dont believe Miss M intended to deceive Royal London or acted without any care at all, 
given the other disclosures on her application and the detailed explanation she gave before 
Royal London was even aware of any misrepresentation.
But she needed to show more care when answering and checking the question. That she 
unfortunately forgot the eight weeks of symptoms is not the fault of Royal London. It relied 
on Miss M answering questions accurately. Though it was an oversight, I think Miss Ms 
actions best fit the careless category.  
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer should consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this. Also, Miss Ms policy terms say:
 
If, when you make a claim, we find out the information you or the person covered 
gave us was inaccurate or incomplete, we may stop paying a claim, have to amend 
the terms of your cover, or at worst cancel your plan and not pay any claim.
I know both Miss M and her IFA have said that Miss Ms treating consultant says it cannot be 
known if her symptoms in 2013 are connected to the 2018 diagnosis, and it may be unlikely 
that they are related. But I cannot use hindsight to determine what should have happened in 
2015. What I must establish is what the parties should reasonably have done at the time the 
policy was taken out.
Royal London has supplied this service with the applicable underwriting from the time of the 
sale. Its underwriters confirmed that because the neurological investigation did not go ahead 
(and therefore no ultimate diagnosis was made other than the impact of being low in Vitamin 
D) the symptoms would be classed as possible multiple sclerosis.
I dont believe that assessment to be unfair, as the symptoms are of the nature of being 
associated with MS. Each insurer will decide the level at which it will accept the risk of 
providing insurance based on the information open to it. And while the IFA submits that 
Royal London and other insurers might agree to insure a person with these symptoms, 
Royal Londons underwriting guidance says differently.
In fact, the underwriting manual I have seen says that a person who has not had an MRI 
scan but that has symptoms that the insurer deems indicative of MS would have life cover 
rated by +100 and be refused critical illness and waiver of premium benefits.
Royal London has made an offer to Miss M which is more generous than the underwriting 
manual at the time. It has said she can retain her critical illness cover and other benefits and 
not have a rating applied to the life cover, but that an exclusion for MS must apply. Given 
that the underwriting would have excluded all critical illnesses, I cannot say Royal London 
has done anything wrong by refusing the claim when it would not have been in a position to 
insure Miss M if it had known of her correct medical history in 2015. I therefore do not uphold 
this complaint.
I know Miss M is unhappy with both of the proposals put forward by Royal London. It may 
help her to seek advice from her IFA about her next steps. Royal London should give Miss M 
a reasonable period (and certainly a minimum of one month) to confirm what she wishes to 
do with her policy going forward.
 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Miss Ms circumstances, I dont think Royal London was 
unreasonable or unfair when it concluded it couldnt pay her critical illness claim or when it 
has proposed to amend her policy terms going forwards.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman