DRN-2087285
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (WICE) unfairly 
cancelled his motor trade policy.
 
What happened
WICE wrote to Mr H to say it was going to cancel his policy with seven days notice, as hed 
had two vehicles impounded by the police, within the space of a few days, and hadnt kept to 
the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr H didnt think this was fair and complained. He said on the first occasion hed bought a 
car but left it with the seller as there was a problem. He said the seller had moved the 
vehicle and it had been recovered by the police as they thought it was abandoned. Mr H said 
hed left the second car with someone who was going to valet it. While that person was 
working on the car the police seized it, as that person couldnt show they owned the vehicle. 
Mr H said hed had the keys at the time of this incident and in any event the person hed left 
the car with had their own insurance which entitled them to drive the car. 
WICE said it had acted correctly when cancelling Mr Hs policy, as the policy allowed it to do 
so. Mr H brought his complaint to us. He provided insurance details to show the person the 
second car was with was entitled to drive it. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
it was reasonable for WICE to cancel the policy based on the information it had for the first 
incident. Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy say that WICE can cancel his policy with seven 
days notice. The policy also says WICE can cancel the policy if Mr H hasnt met the terms or 
conditions. WICE doesnt think Mr H has met the terms and conditions of the policy, due to 
the car being in the possession of uninsured drivers, leading to them being impounded by 
the police.
Ive seen an email to WICE from Mr H where he said the first car became impounded after 
the seller left it outside. However, Ive also listened to a call from the police to WICE where 
the police said the car was impounded after being driven by an uninsured driver. The police 
said that this driver at first gave Mr Hs details, but it was later established that this driver 
wasnt Mr H. I understand Mr H has told us he thinks the sellers son was driving the car and 
he hadnt given permission for him to drive the car. However, that isnt what he told WICE. 
Mr H said the second car was impounded after a domestic disturbance led to the police 
being called. WICE said this again had been reported as being impounded due to being 
driven by an uninsured driver, but it hadnt been able to confirm that with the police. It noted 
that the car was impounded at around 6am and said even though Mr H provided a copy of 
the other persons insurance certificate, the police obviously hadnt thought the insurance 
was enough for him to retain the vehicle. 
Its unclear whether the person working on the second car was insured to drive, although the 
certificate seems to suggest that he was. However, I dont think that matters to the outcome 
of the decision. I say that because given the inconsistencies in Mr Hs account of why the 
first car was impounded, and that it was being driven by an uninsured driver, Im not going to 
interfere with WICEs decision to cancel the policy, in line with the terms and conditions of it. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr H but Im not going to require 
WICE to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman