DRN-4079220
The complaint
Ms P has complained about her car insurer U K Insurance Ltd (UKI) in respect of how it 
handled her claim made when a lorry collided with her stationary car. 
Ms P has sometimes been represented by Mr B. In the main though, as Ms P is the 
policyholder and complainant, Ill refer only to her.
What happened
In April 2022, Ms P was involved in an accident which was not her fault. In May 2022 UKI 
made a claim settlement payment to Ms P which was less her excess. Ms P contacted UKI 
as she thought she shouldnt have to pay any excess as she was not at fault for the incident. 
UKI agreed to reimburse the excess and, noting it hadnt progressed the claim with the other 
insurer at that time, it paid Ms P £50 compensation.
UKI began trying to establish who the other insurer was, as well as obtaining an admission 
of fault. In the meantime Ms P had arranged for cover via a broker to start with another 
insurer and a difficulty arose with the broker over the claim still being recorded as one of 
fault against Ms P. Ms P told UKI what was going on. UKI explained the claim would be 
recorded as one of fault against Ms P until it recovered its claim outlay from the lorry drivers 
insurer. But it agreed to provide a letter which she could show to her broker/new insurer, 
confirming liability had been accepted and that Ms P had full entitlement to her no claims 
bonus. In July 2022 UKI acknowledged Ms Ps concerns about how it had progressed the 
claim, accepting it hadnt updated her but assuring it was still acting to recover its outlay. UKI 
confirmed that the promised letter had been provided and paid £100 compensation.
Ms P looked to change insurers again in September 2022. She found out that the claim was 
still recorded as one of fault against her. UKI noted that the other insurer hadnt reimbursed 
its outlay  meaning the claim was technically still one of fault against Ms P. But it noted 
Ms P had now had two policies cancelled by other insurers and felt it should have looked to 
amend the external industry record to show Ms Ps no-claims bonus had not been negatively 
affected  after all it had confirmed in July that she had full entitlement to it (the no-claims 
bonus, being affected or not, usually being an indicator to prospective insurers of the fault 
status of a claim). In a letter dated 3 November 2022 UKI said it would pay Ms P £150 
compensation for the upset this further failure by it had caused.
Ms P complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She felt that by way of 
compensation UKI should also be reimbursing her for the cost of a course she hadnt been 
able to attend when the accident occurred and for the cost of counselling.
Our Investigator confirmed shed look at what had happened and the complaints made by 
Ms P, up until 3 November 2022. She felt Ms P had been caused quite a lot of upset and 
that UKI should pay a further £200 compensation. She didnt think UKIs failures though 
meant it should reimburse the course or counselling costs. But she directed UKI to consider 
and update Ms P regarding claiming for these from the other insurer and/or under the policy.
Ms P said she couldnt agree to the compensation, not given how extraordinary UKIs 
actions had been. She said they now had two policy cancellations on their record by other 
insurers only because of UKIs failures. UKI also said it didnt think the suggested redress 
was fair. It felt £300 was reasonable in the circumstances where, it said, there had only been 
a months delay along with some mis-advice and poor communication. The complaint was 
passed for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think UKI could have handled this better. Not only was there the delay by UKI before it 
sought to trace the other insurer, but I think it caused confusion and, as a result, failed to 
manage Ms Ps expectations about what she should expect with the claim. UKI couldnt have 
known the other insurer  once UKI began contacting it  wouldnt settle the claim outlay. 
But UKI could have been clear, at the outset with Ms P that, whilst it seemed like she had 
not been at fault for the accident, it would have to be recorded as such unless or until the 
other party accepted liability and all of UKIs outlay was recovered. I dont think it did that 
and, as a result, Ms P experienced issues over many months. And I think that was  
particularly unfortunate here where UKI was informed about Ms Ps worry and trauma 
suffered as a result of the accident  that it was important for her for this claim to be resolved 
smoothly and quickly so the incident could be put behind her. UKI should have been clearer 
with her, from the outset. It should also have provided her with timely updates about its 
recovery activity  such that she could have been aware of what other insurers would be 
likely to see if they checked her record on the external database. 
As it was UKI dealt with this in a piecemeal way which, I think, gave Ms P mixed messages. 
This caused Ms P to tell her broker when arranging cover via another insurer in May 2022 
that this was a non-fault accident. When the other insurer checked the industry database 
and saw it was currently still showing as a fault claim, that caused Ms P to receive letters 
from the broker; demanding an increased premium and threatening cancellation. I dont 
doubt this was worrying and upsetting. The detail UKI provided to Ms P at that time did result 
in the increased premium being refunded by the broker/insurer and that new policy wasnt 
then cancelled on account of the claim with UKI. 
For Ms P though, the problem with the claim and how it was recorded had not been totally 
resolved as, when she sought to change insurer again in September 2022, she encountered 
similar problems and made a further complaint to UKI in October 2022. And UKI accepts that 
it had failed her again regarding the claim because it felt it should have amended the 
external database to reflect that Ms Ps no-claims bonus hadnt been affected. I dont doubt it 
was stressful for Ms P to encounter this issue again, to realise that there were still bars to 
her finding and ensuring correct cover was in place, all because of the actions of UKI. In a 
situation where Ms P was suffering as a result of the accident, these further problems would 
have been felt more acutely and caused greater upset than they might have in other 
circumstances. And it was all upset UKI could have avoided. In the circumstances here I dont think £300 is fair and reasonable compensation. But I do 
think £500 in total is. It reflects that Ms P, over a number of months, kept encountering 
issues because of failures by UKI. And Ive noted above that this was felt acutely by Ms P. 
I know Ms P feels that UKIs errors will continue to affect them, worrying particularly about 
the policy cancellations by other insurers. But in October 2022 UKI amended the external 
database to show Ms Ps no-claims bonus was not affected. And UKIs November 2022 
letter acknowledges that it failed Ms P and also that its failure caused incorrect information to 
be visible to other insurers. If prospective insurers do still have concerns about, or price 
cover for Ms P based on any insurer cancellations linked to the April 2022 claim and UKIs 
activity regarding it, Ms P can show them this letter. 
Regarding the course, Ms P wasnt able to attend because of the accident. The policy 
wouldnt cover her for those losses, and they werent caused by any failure of UKIs. But this 
is something UKI might be able to ask the other insurer to cover the cost of as an uninsured 
loss suffered by Ms P on account of the accident caused by the other driver. It should tell 
Ms P if this is something it can help with.
Im sorry to hear Ms P needed counselling. But it does seem that the main reason for her 
needing this was the accident itself. There is cover on the policy for medical expenses 
incurred as a result of an accident. So it might be that UKI can settle with Ms P for her 
counselling costs under the policy  and/or it might include these costs in any recovery 
action it takes against the other insurer. UKI should consider Ms Ps claim in this respect.
Putting things right
I require UKI to:
Pay Ms P a further £200 compensation, where my total award is £500 but £300 has 
already been paid.
Tell Ms P if it can assist her with claiming the cost of her missed course.
Consider Ms Ps claim for costs for counselling.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Ltd to provide the redress set out above at 
Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman