DRN-2504433
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, applied a default to his credit
file because he had an unarranged overdraft of £3.80. This was during a time when his
personal circumstances meant that he wasnt keeping on top of his account and wasnt
staying at home so didnt receive Halifaxs letters.
What happened
Mr K had current account with Halifax with an overdraft limit of £1,000. Mr K started
experiencing some personal difficulties towards the end of 2017. And by mid-2018, Mr Ks
account balance had exceeded his agreed overdraft limit and was in an unarranged
overdraft position.
In August 2018, Mr K paid £50 into his account but this left it £3.80 over his overdraft limit,
so he was £1,003.80 overdrawn.
In October 2018, Halifax sent Mr K a letter to say that his account was in arrears and asked
him to contact it and pay the £3.80 to bring the account up-to-date. When it didnt hear
anything from Mr K and no payments were made into his account, it sent Mr K a formal
demand for the repayment of his overdraft in November 2018.
In December 2018, Halifax wrote to give Mr K 30 days notice that his account would be
closed and transferred to its recoveries team, unless he repaid the outstanding balance. As
Halifax received no contact or payments from Mr K, his account was closed, and a default
was registered on his credit file in January 2019.
In June 2019, Mr K called Halifax about the default, as hed been in contact with the debt
collection agency dealing with his account. He wanted to explain about the personal
difficulties hed had and that hed been under an extreme amount of stress. He said that he
didnt know he was over his overdraft limit and hadnt received the letters Halifax had sent
him.
As Mr K had expressed that he was unhappy about the default, Halifax considered that he
was raising a complaint. Halifax said that Mr Ks account kept entering an unarranged
overdraft position and the last payment received into the account was in August 2018. But
this wasnt enough to bring the account up-to-date. It said that it had sent Mr K text
messages and letters asking him to contact it about the matter. Halifax said it was sorry to
hear about the difficult time Mr K had experienced and that he wasnt staying at his home
address, but it said Mr K had been able to keep up with the repayments to his credit card,
which was also with Halifax. Although this was paid by direct debit from another account,
Halifax said that Mr K wouldve needed to make sure that account was funded. Halifax felt it
had been correct to close Mr Ks account and the default had been registered correctly.
Our investigators opinion
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He felt
that Halifax had acted fairly and reasonably in how it had handled Mr Ks outstanding
balance and in the closure of his account. He said it had tried to make regular contact with
Mr K and gave him the opportunity to repay the balance before taking any action.
Mr K didnt accept the investigators findings. He said he wanted to complain about the way
he was spoken to by the representative who dealt with his complaint, as they had made a
comment about his personal life and had said they wouldnt have gone ahead with the
default if he hadnt complained. Mr K also said that at some time in July or August 2018 he
was told he could only pay £50 into his account.
The investigator said that Halifax didnt have a record of a call with Mr K where he was told
he could only pay £50 into his account. The investigator listened to the recording of Mr Ks
call with the complaint handler but said he didnt think the representative had been
attempting to offend or upset Mr K, as they were trying to explain why they had reached their
decision.
Mr K said that his complaint was about the overall conduct of the representative and that this
had left him feeling unable to approach Halifax with the mitigating circumstances that he
feels affected his situation. He said he believes the representative was prejudiced towards
him, and that they said they were responsible for the decision and wouldnt change it. He
said hed paid £50 into his account when he was asked to and had assumed the text
messages he was sent about his account were a mistake.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in November 2020. In summary, I didnt 
think it should be upheld. 
I explained that there were limitations on what we can look at and this affected some of the 
concerns Mr K raised about the way Mr K felt about how Halifax handled his complaint, as 
dealing with customer complaints isnt a regulated activity. This meant that I couldnt address 
those concerns. 
So my provisional decision referred to Mr Ks concerns about the default registered on his 
Halifax account. 
I was sorry to read of all that Mr K has had to deal with over the past few years. I said I could 
appreciate that this will have impacted on him personally and caused him stress and
worry. I said it was understandable that his focus will have been on his family during this 
time.
I looked through all of the information Halifax provided about Mr Ks account. It seemed that 
he regularly used his overdraft facility and there were occasions where his balance 
exceeded the limit which meant he was using an unarranged overdraft.
Mr K recalled speaking with Halifax in July or August 2018 and was told he could only pay 
£50 into his account, which he then did. However, Halifax doesnt have a record of such a 
call. At this time, £53.80 needed to be paid in to repay the unarranged overdraft amount so, 
by only paying £50 of that, the account remained in that unarranged overdraft position.Halifax did send Mr K notice of this which told him that this needed to be repaid. And it also
sent him text message notifications about this which he received. However, Mr K has
explained that he wasnt at home, so didnt receive the letters which were sent, and believed
the text messages to be wrong.
An overdraft is payable on demand and is generally there to be used for emergency
borrowing. And, after no contact or account credits from Mr K, Halifax reached the decision
to request repayment of the overdraft and close his account.
So although I could understand what Mr K told us about how difficult it was for him during
this period, I didnt think that Halifax acted wrongly or unfairly in the actions it took. I thought 
it gave Mr K sufficient warning of what may happen if his account remained in the 
unarranged overdraft, and also gave him time to make the payment required.
Halifaxs letters and his account statements showing the position on his account were sent to
his registered address. And he acknowledged that he did receive the text messages it sent. 
I said that although I realised he believed them to be being sent by mistake, I also thought it 
was reasonable to say that he wouldve had the opportunity to clarify this. The letters and 
statements would also have shown him the position on his account.
I could understand the point Mr K made about it only being £3.80 over his overdraft limit. 
However, it remained that he was exceeding his agreed limit, and was not crediting the 
account to try and bring the balance out of the overdraft.
I said appreciated Mr Ks strength of feeling and I understood what he said about the impact 
adverse information on his credit history has had on his ability to obtain credit elsewhere, 
however, I couldnt say that this was solely because of the information recorded by Halifax.
So I didnt think Halifax should be required to make any amendments to Mr Ks credit file 
when this reflects how he managed his account. 
The responses
Halifax responded to say it agreed with my provisional decision. It said it had evidenced that 
is was reporting accurate information to credit reference agencies and had no further 
comments to add.
Mr K didnt accept my provisional decision. He said it was inaccurate to say that the 
information recorded by Halifax was the sole reason he was unable to obtain credit 
elsewhere, and said that hed applied for an extension of a loan he held, which he had 
mostly paid back and he feels applying for the extension is standard and he should have 
every right to be accepted for if it wasnt for the default. He said hes never had a poor credit 
rating before. 
He said the decision to keep the default on the account without review was made by the 
complaints handler, who said they wouldnt change the decision. He said the option to 
readdress and review the default was dismissed which is contrary to the duty of care Halifax 
has to its customers. 
Mr K said that Halifax had recently reviewed a default on his credit card account and, taking 
into account his personal circumstances, it had said it would remove the default from his 
credit file if he repaid the arrears. Mr K said he is concerned about why Halifax is unable to provide the call made to him, and 
questioned the logic of paying £50 rather than £53.80. He said the situation had affected his 
life in a derogatory way. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I expressed in my provisional decision, I do fully appreciate Mr Ks personal 
circumstances, and the details hes shared with us. And I acknowledge that he feels that the 
complaints handler dismissed what he was saying and so said they wouldnt remove the 
default from his current account.
But, as I said in my provisional decision, the way that Halifax dealt with his complaint isnt a 
matter that Im able to consider because complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, and so 
it isnt within our jurisdiction to address any aspects of his complaint that are purely about 
how Halifax handled a complaint here. But I would reassure Mr K that I have considered the 
impact of some of the service Halifax provided here where it is clearly linked to the events he 
is unhappy with.  
In doing so, I have to take into account that the default had already been registered five 
months before. Anything that either the complaints handler or Mr K said in their conversation 
wouldnt have influenced the decision to default the account in the first place, as that action 
had already taken place. 
Whilst I have fully considered what Mr K has said about why he feels Halifax should review 
its decision to default his current account, it remains that I think it acted fairly and 
appropriately in the actions it took, and in the attempts to let Mr K know that the unarranged 
overdraft needed to be repaid. 
When considering the impact the default has had on Mr Ks ability to obtain credit elsewhere, 
I reviewed the copy of his credit record that he sent us. And I felt unable to conclude that it 
was solely the recording of the default by Halifax that may have been the reason why 
another lender chose not to accept Mr Ks application for credit. That remains the case 
having reviewed his letter about his loan application. Although it refers to information on 
Mr Ks credit file, I cant say that this was specifically because of the information recorded by 
Halifax. 
While Halifax may recently have said that it would remove a default on Mr Ks credit card 
account - the letters suggest that this was because of his circumstances through the current 
pandemic. The letters say that it hadnt made an error in the default of the account based on 
the payments hed made towards it, and he would need to repay the arrears hed built up. I 
dont consider that this should mean that it was wrong to apply the earlier default to Mr Ks 
current account, or to say that it wouldnt remove it. 
I do understand why Mr K has asked why he wouldve paid £50 when the amount his 
account exceeded his overdraft limit by was £53.80. That £50 wasnt enough to bring the 
balance back under the limit though. And Halifax doesnt have a record of a related call 
where this was discussed, so I cant say with any certainty that this payment was something 
that was agreed with Halifax. I appreciate Mr K recalls that he was told that was all that was 
needed in that call, but that wasnt the case. And all the other correspondence Halifax had 
with Mr K told him of the situation with his account and what action was needed. As I said in 
my final decision, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr K to have questioned the text messages he received about this, even if he did believe them to be wrong or sent in error, if 
they presented a different position that what he had thought.
Overall, while I remain sympathetic with Mr Ks personal and family situation through that 
particular time, I dont consider that Halifax acted wrongly or unfairly with the actions it took 
with Mr Ks current account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman