DRN-3962878
Complaint
Mrs W has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) Ikano rejected her claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Mrs W is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background 
Mrs W bought a solar panel system (the system) for her home in 2017. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions 
of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mrs W alleges that the supplier 
misled Mrs W into believing that the panels would be self-funding. Mrs W also complained 
about a number of problems she experienced following the installation of the system. 
Mrs Ws complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mrs W signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
system would not cover the purchase price and therefore the system would not be self-
funding in the way Mrs W says she was led to believe. So, the adjudicator did not think a 
misrepresentation had taken place.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons: 
The CMC re-iterated that Mrs W was verbally told the Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments 
and savings on energy bills would cover the cost of the monthly payments and that 
the system would be self-funding. 
The CMC says that Mrs W should not be expected to inspect the sales document 
relied on by our investigator to check that what she was being told wasnt true. 
The CMC added that Mrs Ws testimony was the only direct available evidence of 
what happened during the sales meeting.  
The CMC questioned why Mrs W would buy solar panels if she had been told that 
she would receive no benefit during the term of the loan. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, the case was passed to me. 
In my provisional decision of 1 February 2023, I set out why I thought the complaint should 
be upheld in part. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to 
make before I reached a final decision. Ikano did not respond and Mrs W replied that she 
accepted the findings in my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs W could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way she could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs W and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, currently, I intend to uphold this complaint 
in part. Ill explain why. 
Self-funding
As part of my consideration of this case, Ive looked at the sales contract and the estimated 
returns document. Each of these documents are only a page long and have been signed by 
Mrs W on the same day as the credit agreement. So Im satisfied that she saw and agreed to 
these documents during the sale. 
The contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cash price of the solar panel system 
which is £11,250 and that the consumer will use a 126-month loan with Ikano to finance the 
purchase. 
The consumer was also given an estimated returns document which set out the year one 
benefit amount the consumer can expect to receive from the system. 
These figures are set out clearly and directly above where Mrs W signed on each document. 
So, I think its likely that she saw them, and these figures would have been discussed on the 
day of the sale. 
To me it looks like the supplier made it clear that the system cost £11,250 and that Mrs W 
took out a 10-year loan to pay for it within its own contract as set out above. The estimated 
returns are also set out on the suppliers own form. So, I think that these documents are 
reliable evidence of the discussions Mrs W had with the supplier. 
Of course, separately, the supplier also arranged for Mrs W to sign Ikanos credit agreement. 
I dont think its likely Mrs W would have agreed to buy the system without knowing the cost 
of the system  and similarly I think its unlikely she signed a loan agreement without 
knowing the term of the loan. And her agreement shows that the loan was for 10 years with 
payments deferred for the first 6 months. 
To me, its apparent that to repay a loan for £11,250 over 10 years, Mrs W would be required 
to repay at least £1,125 annually. And of course, with interest (which was set out in the loan 
agreement), it would likely be significantly more than that. I also think its clear that a 
maximum benefit amount of £395.77 would not be sufficient to cover the minimum annual 
cost of the loan. 
Furthermore her credit agreement shows that her monthly payment was £151.47. I also think 
its apparent that 12 monthly payments of £151.47, is far more than the maximum year one 
benefit of £395.77. 
I have to bear in mind that it doesnt look like Mrs W was given an array of documents with 
facts and figures for her to wade through and inspect. The estimated returns are set out on 
one page and the costs are set out both on the suppliers contract which is one page and 
then again on the credit agreement. Each document has been signed by Mrs W. So, I think 
these documents are a good reflection of the discussions Mrs W had with the supplier and 
information she was given on the day of the sale  which means its likely that the costs 
associated with the loan and the estimated benefits were made clear to Mrs W. 
If Mrs W had been told the system would be self-funding, I would have expected her to have 
questioned how the shortfall would likely have been made up and Ive seen no evidence that 
she did. So, I think that suggests that the documents most likely did not contradict Mrs Ws 
understanding, at that time. 
So while Ive carefully considered Mrs Ws testimony, I find the documents from the time of 
sale to be more persuasive in terms of what information she was likely given at the time of 
sale. Overall, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Problems following installation 
Problems with the fuse board 
Mrs W has complained that the solar panels kept tripping power in her home, so it was 
switched off for 65 days while the supplier resolved the issue, but compensation wasnt 
offered for the period the system was switched off. Ikano has since offered a refund of 
£70.20 for lost generation during this period. 
The problem has now been resolved, and Ikano has offered compensation for lost 
generation. But I also think Ikano should offer *8% simple interest as this should have been 
offered when the problem was originally fixed, and Mrs W has been deprived of the benefit 
since that time. I understand the issue with the fuse board was fixed on 17 March 2021, so I 
think Ikano should pay simple interest at *8% from 17 March 2021, until the date of 
settlement. But I dont think it needs to do any more. 
Loss of use of the battery storage system 
Mrs W also pointed out that she noticed the battery storage system was not working on 18 
March 2021 but the suppliers didnt visit until 10 May 2021 to investigate and at this time 
explained that due to the earlier problems with the solar panels tripping the property, and the 
solar panels being switched off, the battery storage system had also cut off. While this was 
fixed, she was not compensated for the loss of use of the battery for the period she hadnt 
had the benefit of the battery storage system. Ikano have now said that they will compensate Mrs W for the period that the battery wasnt 
functional and are of the opinion that £31.32 reflects the maximum potential benefit she 
could have expected to receive. Ikano calculated this using the maximum estimated 
electricity savings in year one of £211.86, which gives a daily benefit of 58p, and 54 days 
period between 18 March 2021 and 10 May 2021.
However, I think its clear that the battery was also unlikely to have been working while the 
solar panel system was also switched off, given that this is the reason it cut off. So I think 
Ikano should work out the loss of use from when the solar panels were switched off rather 
than when Mrs W noticed the problem. I understand this was on the 11 January 2021. 
So while I think the method used by Ikano to calculate the maximum potential benefit she 
could have achieved is fair, I think it should work this out from 11 January 2021, until 10 May 
2021. It should also add *8% simple interest on to this compensation as it should have been 
offered at the time. 
Water damage to internal walls 
Mrs W has complained that the roof was damaged by the solar panels and while the supplier 
fixed the damage to the roof, it did not rectify that internal water damage. Mrs W says she 
had to rectify the internal water damage herself by painting the internal water damaged 
areas. Mrs W hasnt set out any costs she incurred or submitted any invoices/bills. But Ikano 
has now offered £150 compensation to cover any potential costs and the inconvenience she 
has suffered in having to rectify these issues herself. 
While I am also satisfied that Mrs W did suffer the inconvenience and some costs associated 
with the internal water damage  I think Ikanos offer of £150 compensation is fair and I dont 
think it needs to do any more about this issue. 
Removal and reinstallation of the system 
Finally, Mr W complained that she asked the supplier to remove, store and reinstall some 
panels during an extension build. While the supplier did do this, she expected this work to be 
carried out for free but remained unhappy as she was charged for this. 
I cant see any evidence that the supplier agreed to do this free of charge. And bearing in 
mind that there is usually a charge for this, I dont think the supplier did anything wrong here. 
While I appreciate Mrs W might have felt disappointed that there was a charge, I dont think 
Ikano needs to do anything about this issue. 
Putting this right  
Refund £70.20 for lost generation for the period the solar panels were switched off as 
set out above. *8% simple interest should be paid from 17 March 221, until the date 
of settlement.
Compensate Mrs W for loss of use of the battery for the period it was likely switched 
off from 11 January 2021 until 10 May 2021 at a daily rate of 58p per day. *8% 
simple interest should be paid from 10 May 2021, until the date of settlement. 
Pay £150 compensation to cover any potential costs and the inconvenience Mrs W 
suffered in rectifying the water damage 
*If Ikano considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate 
showing this, if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.In the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision. As Ive set out above, I think the 
evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a misrepresentation that would enable me to 
uphold Mrs Ws complaint that the system was sold on the basis that it was self-funding. So I 
dont think Ikano was unfair for declining this aspect of her claim.
However, for the reasons set out above, I think there were some post installation issues that 
werent fully resolved at the time. So, I uphold this complaint in part and Ikano should put 
things right as Ive set out below. 
Putting this right  
Refund £70.20 for lost generation for the period the solar panels were switched off as 
set out above. *8% simple interest should be paid on this amount from 17 March 
2021, until the date of settlement.
Compensate Mrs W for loss of use of the battery for the period it was likely switched 
off from 11 January 2021 until 10 May 2021 at a daily rate of 58p per day. *8% 
simple interest should be paid on this amount from 10 May 2021, until the date of 
settlement. 
Pay £150 compensation to cover any potential costs and the inconvenience Mrs W 
suffered in rectifying the water damage 
*If Ikano considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate 
showing this, if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint in part. Ikano Bank AB (publ) should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman