DRN-4298860
The complaint
Mr D complains Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund him for direct debits.
What happened
Mr D contacted Lloyds to raise a direct debit guarantee claim. Mr D said payments to a utility 
company had debited his account six or seven years earlier and these were unauthorised.
Lloyds asked Mr D to go to the company and find out the service user number the utility 
company was using. Lloyds said it needed this because the direct debits had been cancelled 
too long ago for Lloyds to still hold records.
Mr D complained to Lloyds and said he was entitled to an immediate refund once hed raised 
the direct debit guarantee. Mr D wasnt going to carry out any tasks for Lloyds as it should be 
refunding him immediately.
Lloyds responded to say it still needed the service user number and if Mr D could get this it 
would press ahead with the claim.
Unhappy with this response, Mr D brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld.
The investigator thought Lloyds was entitled to ask for this number. The investigator said the 
immediate refund was applicable where thered been an error with a direct debit, and Lloyds 
was allowed to ask for more information to see if an error had happened.
The investigator didnt think Lloyds should refund the direct debit payments. Mr D disagreed 
and said he couldnt prove the bank had made an error, so he was in an impossible position. 
Mr D asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The direct debit guarantee says if an error is made in the payment of your direct debit, you 
are entitled to a full and immediate refund from your bank.
The direct debit payments left Mr Ds account some time ago. Im not sure why, if there was 
an obvious error with the payments, Mr D waited so long to raise this with Lloyds.
If Lloyds had immediately refunded Mr D it would likely approach the utility company about 
the refund. If the utility company could prove there was no error, Lloyds would likely take the 
refund back from Mr D.
The direct debit guarantee says if you receive a refund youre not entitled to, you must pay it 
back when asked. The direct debit guarantee also says the bank may review the transaction 
before the guarantee is activated, I think this is what Lloyds is doing.
In these specific circumstances, I think its reasonable for Lloyds to review the transaction 
and approach the utility company first, to make sure any refund can be kept by Mr D. And for 
Lloyds to approach the utility company, it wants some specific information from Mr D.
And its reasonable Lloyds no longer has this information, its been some time since the 
payments left Mr Ds account. Most inactive direct debits are removed after two years, and 
its been six years since Mr Ds had an active direct debit to the utility company.
The refund for the direct debit is, ultimately, coming from the utility provider. Mr D says he 
needs to prove Lloyds made an error, but I dont think thats correct, Mr D just needs to find 
out the information Lloyds has asked him for.
And once Mr D has this information, Lloyds has said itll approach the utility company about 
these payments. If the utility company accepts there was an error, then Id expect Mr D to be 
refunded for the payments.
But, without the information Lloyds has asked Mr D for I wouldnt expect Lloyds to refund 
him. I dont think Lloyds needs to refund Mr D any of the payments hes disputed.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman