DRN-1774108
The complaint
This complaint is about a home purchase plan that Mr K holds with Al Rayan Bank PLC. 
Hes unhappy that a new deal he requested in January 2018 wasnt implemented, even 
though he paid the £199 product fee. Hes been charged rent at Al Rayans full rate rather 
than the discount he opted for. Al Rayan says it never received his signed product 
acceptance letter, so the change wasnt put through
What happened
Mr Ks initial rate was due to end on 31 December 2017. Al Rayan sent him a product end 
letter with two options to choose from for a new deal. The letter said that once Al Rayan had 
received Mr Ks selection, it would contact him for the product fee, and once it had received 
that, it would then send him an offer for the new deal, which hed need to sign. 
Mr K picked the deal he wanted  a discounted variable rate  and returned the form to 
Al Rayan; its date stamped as received on 20 December 2017. After Mr K had paid the 
product fee, Al Rayan sent out the new product offer on 4 January 2018. The offer letter set 
out the details of the new payments Mr K would pay, and specified that he needed to sign 
and return a copy of the offer letter in order for the new rate to take effect.
The new rate never took effect. Although Mr K says he signed and returned the copy offer, it 
seems Al Rayan never received it. So instead of going on to the new discount deal, Mr Ks 
home purchase plan reverted to Al Rayans standard variable rate. 
Mr K complained in December 2019; Al Rayans final response confirmed it had never 
received the signed offer letter in January 2018. It had kept the product fee because that 
was non-refundable, Al Rayan said if Mr K wanted to go ahead with a new deal now, it would 
waive the fee and. provided Mr K returned a signed offer letter, would backdate the 
replacement rate to 1 December 2019.
When the case came to us, our investigator thought Al Rayans response was fair. Mr K has 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial, 
and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct 
our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone else. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive some disappointing news for Mr K; I too think Al Rayan has responded fairly to his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I dont find that Al Rayan did anything wrong in the first place. The point of sale 
material for the new deal made three things very clear in my view; specifically:
that the new deal would only take effect if Al Rayan received signed copy of the offer 
back from Mr K;
that the fee was non-refundable; and
how much Mr Ks monthly payment would be once the new deal was in place.
There was nothing further for Al Rayan to do unless and until it received a signed offer back 
from Mr K.
To me, the crux of the case is in the third bullet point above. Mr K says he was in contact 
with Al Rayan on several occasions in the intervening two years and not once did it mention 
the outstanding product switch. But I dont think it was incumbent on Al Rayan to chase up 
the signed offer letter or check if Mr K still wanted the new rate. 
What Al Rayan did do was send Mr K quarterly rent review statements that told him how 
much his monthly payments were and the rate at which rent was being charged. The 
statement Mr K received in the spring of 2018 should reasonably have put him on notice that 
his rent rate and monthly payment for the first quarter of 2018 werent the same as had been 
specified in the offer letter from January. 
Had Mr K contacted Al Rayan to check the position then, it seems likely to me that it would 
have responded in much the same way it did when he complained; that is, by explaining that 
it hadnt received the signed offer and offering to backdate the switch provided Mr K sent it 
back now.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against Al Rayan Bank PLC. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman