DRN-3152732
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly declined their 
building warranty claim, for roof repairs.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G have a ten-year building warranty policy covering their home. In year six of the 
policy, they made a claim for repairs they had already carried out to their roof. The repairs 
cost £1,260.
NHBC accepted the issue was covered by the policy, but it declined the claim on the basis 
the repairs hadnt reached the minimum claim value of £1,717.
Mr and Mrs G referred a complaint to our service. One of investigators thought the claim had 
been fairly declined. Because Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy, their complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G consider it unfair that their claim has been declined due to it not 
meeting the minimum claim value, and I can understand their upset in respect of their new 
home having issues. However, NHBCs policy terms are clear that for a claim to succeed, 
among other things, the repair costs must meet the minimum claim value. There isnt 
anything unusual about this policy feature.
NHBC wasnt, as Mr and Mrs G put it, responsible for checking the work of the builder. But 
rather, NHBC provides an insurance policy that covers certain issues, when its mandatory 
requirements (in respect of construction) havent been met by the builder. Claims are 
subject to the various terms and conditions that apply.
The policy terms explain that the minimum claim value was £1,200 as of 1 April 2011, but 
this figure increases each year in line with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors 
House Re-building Cost Index.
The repair costs didnt meet the applicable minimum claim value at the time the claim was 
made in 2021. As such, Im satisfied NHBC has fairly declined the claim.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman