DRN-1879522
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited trading as Go Skippy (Go 
Skippy) charged him a cancellation fee when he cancelled his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H bought a car insurance policy through a comparison website online in May 2019. The 
broker was Go Skippy. 
In October 2019 Mr H cancelled his policy. Go Skippy said Mr H owed a balance under the 
policy. This included Go Skippys cancellation fee of £75.
Mr H complained about the amount he owed. We have dealt with a separate complaint Mr H 
made against the insurers charges. 
Go Skippy agreed to waive its cancellation charge to resolve Mr Hs complaint. But H 
remained unhappy and asked us to look at things for him. 
Our investigator thought Go Skippy had acted reasonably  as it had waived its cancellation 
fee which was set out under its terms and conditions. 
Mr H didnt agree. He doesnt think Go Skippy clearly explained its charges. He said he 
didnt remember receiving its terms and conditions. He said he bought the policy over the 
phone. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont think its unreasonable for a broker to make a charge for arranging or cancelling a 
policy provided it clearly sets out these charges to a customer. 
Before Mr H bought his policy, he agreed to Go Skippys terms. These said that if he 
cancelled his policy outside of the cooling off period, it would charge him a cancellation fee 
of £75. Mr H was alerted to the terms again in the covering letter from Go Skippy attaching 
his policy documents on 25 May 2019. It read:
Your Policy Documents
The policy documents include your Statement of Facts/Proposal Form (dependent on 
Insurer), Certificate of Motor Insurance, your car Insurance Schedule and our Terms 
of Business.
Under the policy schedule, Go Skippy wrote that any changes including cancellation may be 
subject to an administration charge. 
Go Skippy waived its cancellation fee as a goodwill gesture to resolve Mr Hs complaint. So I 
dont think its acted unreasonably. I understand Mr H is very disappointed with Go Skippy. 
But based on what Ive seen, I think its been fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman