DRN-1895772
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited (Chase 
de Vere) sold units in two separate transactions instead of one transaction which they say 
resulted in a financial loss of £850.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B met with their financial advisor from Chase de Vere on 25 July 2019 to review 
their financial circumstances. During the meeting, it was agreed that their holding in a 
particular fund (which I will call Fund A) would be sold and £10,000 of the sale proceeds 
would be placed into a new ISA for Mrs B.  The remaining proceeds would be returned to 
their nominated bank account. The paperwork for the sale and ISA were completed during 
the meeting.
The financial advisor made Mr and Mrs B aware that he was about to go on annual leave 
and that the paperwork would not be passed to his office until his return on the 29 July.  This 
was understood and acknowledged by Mr and Mrs B.
On his return to the office, the financial advisor processed the paperwork and the 
instructions were passed to the investment platform provider. The instructions were passed 
on 30 July 2019.
Following receipt of the paperwork, the platform provider processed the instructions over two 
transactions.  The first transaction was a sale raising £10,000 which was used to fund Mrs 
Bs ISA.  This was carried out on 1 August.  A second sale for the remaining units in Fund A 
was placed on the 5 August and the proceeds sent to Mr and Mrs Bs bank account on 13 
August.
Mr and Mrs B complained that as the instructions were carried out over two transactions and 
over a few days, the value of the units in Fund A had dropped and they suffered a financial 
disadvantage.  They complained to Chase de Vere who investigated their complaint.  Chase 
de Vere replied saying that the platform provider acted within their published timescales and 
that the fall in value of the residual fund was unfortunately caused by movements in the 
share price over the two days.  Chase de Vere rejected their complaint as the delay was not 
caused by them.
Mr and Mrs B raised their complaint with the service and one of our investigators reviewed 
their case. The investigator did not think that Chase de Vere had done anything wrong and 
did not uphold the complaint.  Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr and Mrs B have 
asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but I wont be upholding their complaint. I understand 
that Mr and Mrs B feel strongly that as the instructions were placed over two transactions, 
their holding has been subject to market fluctuations and they have suffered a financial loss.  
As this complaint is about the actions of Chase de Vere, I can only comment directly on what 
they did. 
The complaint centres around the processing of the sale of Fund A units to fund Mrs Bs ISA 
and to return the remaining sale proceeds to their bank account. It is acknowledged by Mr 
and Mrs B that they were made aware that their financial advisor was going on annual leave 
and would not return to the office until 29 July.  The complaint is not about this delay but 
whether the financial advisor made them aware that the instruction would be carried out over 
two transactions.
In their response to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, Chase de Vere said that following advice from 
the financial advisor, it was agreed that £10,000 would be transferred via a sale from the 
Fund A holding and then the remaining balance would be sold and returned as cash. Chase 
de Vere say that this makes it clear there would be two transactions.  Mr and Mrs B dispute 
this and in their letter to the service, they say that at no time did they agree to sell in two 
stages.  They say that at the meeting the agreement was to sell 100% to raise the funds.
I have reviewed the GIA to ISA Application summary document that was completed for Mr 
and Mrs B by their financial advisor. This document describes how the ISA will be funded 
and it says that £10,000 of Fund A units will be sold. It doesnt say that the total value of Mr 
and Mrs Bs Fund A holding will be sold and £10,000 used to fund the ISA. 
As I was not present at the meeting, I cant say for certain what was discussed and what was 
agreed.  In situations like this the next step would be to say what is likely to have happened 
on the balance of probability. I share Mr and Mrs Bs frustration that this point cannot be 
clarified but I think that on balance, it is probable that the financial advisor would have taken 
Mr and Mrs B through this application form and said that £10,000 worth of units would be 
sold first.
Chase de Vere are financial advisors and they forward all investment instructions to the 
investment platform provider.  The investment instructions are subject to the platform 
providers terms and conditions and it should be noted that Mr and Mrs B are also clients of 
the provider. The complaint raised by Mr and Mrs B is about carrying out the instruction over 
two transactions - this activity was performed by the platform provider. In this complaint, I 
can only review the actions taken by Chase de Vere and whether they contributed to unfairly 
causing any financial disadvantage to Mr and Mrs B.
Chase de Vere delegate the dealing process to the provider who provide the investment 
platform. In their response to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, the business has said that they have 
spoken to the provider who have told them that the transfer to the ISA would always take 
precedence before the sale of the remaining balance and that both transactions were 
completed within their expected timescale of 3-4 days. 
As the actual transactions are performed by the platform provider and they split the 
instructions into two parts, I cannot find that Chase de Vere have done anything wrong. 
There is nothing contained within their Terms of Business that cover how instructions will be 
handled by the platform provider and as I have said previously, there is no way to confirm 
what was said in the meeting on the 25 July.Mr and Mrs B have also complained that the balance of the sale proceeds was not paid into 
their account until 13 August following the sale of Fund A units on 5 August. Again, this 
activity was performed by the provider in their role as the investment platform. I know that 
this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B but in this instance, I cannot find that 
Chase de Vere has done anything wrong.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman