DRN-4045425
The complaint
Ms D complains that Ageas Insurance Limited mishandled her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The complaint is about insurance on a car first registered in about 2017.
In about August 2022, Ms D bought the car. 
On 23 November 2022, she used a comparison website and took out a policy with Ageas 
with effect from early December 2022. Ageas charged about £488.00 (including about 
£45.00 for a breakdown policy). Ageas recorded that Ms D had said shed acquired the car 
in August 2021.
On 9 December 2022, Ageas sent Ms D an email querying that purchase date.
On 13 December 2022, Ms D provided documents to Ageas. These indicated that shed 
acquired the car in August 2022.  Ms D complained to Ageas that it was treating her unfairly.
By an email dated 13 December 2022, Ageas said that Ms D had the option of paying a 
further sum of about £57.00 or she could cancel the policy. Ageas said that if Ms D didnt 
accept one of those options then it would cancel the policy with effect from 3 January 2023.
By a final response dated early January 2023, Ageas turned down the complaint. 
Ms D asked us to investigate her complaint.
By an email dated mid-January 2023, Ageas said that on 5 January it had made a refund.
Ms D asked us to investigate the deductions Ageas had made. Ageas sent us its 
submissions including on the statement of account.
Ms D also sent us submissions about her complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He referred to 
Consumer Insurance Disclosure and Representations Act 2012 (CIDRA). He thought that 
Ageas were entitled to charge an additional premium and had acted fairly regarding the 
options provided.
Ms D disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
Her bank statement shows car transactions in August 2022.
She did not supply incorrect purchase dates to DVLA nor the comparison website.
She has provided a screenshot when the comparison website clearly states that they 
fill this information using their independent providers of information.
In order to get a V5, she had to complete DVLA form V62. That form didnt ask the 
purchase date and she didnt state the purchase date. So DVLA probably used the 
date it received the V62 as the date of the V5.
Getting and purchasing something are two different things.
She can't see much of her representation has been taken into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Ms D have said, Ageas provided some quotes on about 9 August 2022. Ms D 
has shown us quotes less than £488.00. She says they were based on a purchase date of 
August 2022. 
However, Ms D hasnt shown that the quotes were based on a purchase date of August 
2022. In any event, different insurers will assess and price risk in different ways at different 
times. So Ageass pricing in August 2022 may have changed later in the year. And I accept 
Ageass evidence that it rates a vehicle as lower risk if it was acquired longer ago.
Ms D has provided a redacted extract from her building society account statement showing 
payments to a motor trader and an insurer on 11 August 2022. Ms D also provided a  
certificate of insurance dated 11 August 2022 issued by an insurer other than Ageas.
Ms D has not explained how she may have acquired the car on any other date. So I find it 
likely that Ms D acquired the car on about 11 August 2022.
From what shes said, Ms D didnt get a V5, so she had to use form V62 form to get a V5. I 
accept that she had already acquired the car before DVLA issued the V5 dated September 
2022.
Ms D has referred to IA 2015. But the Insurance Act isnt relevant to a consumer contract. 
The relevant Act is CIDRA. That places a duty on Ms D to take reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation when taking out insurance.
Ageas said that on about 20 November 2022 Ms D said shed acquired the car in July 2022. 
But Ageas hasnt shown enough evidence that Ms D said that.
On 23 November 2022, Ms D used the comparison website. Im satisfied that the website 
used an information provider to get details of the car. I dont accept that this included the 
date of which Ms D had acquired the car.
I find that the website asked her a question as follows:
When did you buy or start to lease this car? 
From the statement of fact document, I find that Ms D answered by giving a date of August 
2021. That wasnt correct. And since shed bought the car as recently as August 2022, I 
consider that she was careless in stating the wrong year. So she had made a careless 
misrepresentation.
Ageass welcome letter included the following:Check that the details shown in your Statement of Fact are correct as your contract 
of insurance will be based on this information.
I accept Ageass evidence that it wouldve charged a higher premium for a more recently 
acquired vehicle. In other words, the incorrect date made a difference to Ageas. So I 
consider that the careless misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation under 
CIDRA.
Therefore CIDRA gave Ageas a number of alternative remedies. Those remedies didnt 
include charging an additional premium. But they did include treating the policy as void from 
the start.
I havent seen enough evidence to show that Ageas delayed contacting Ms D.
Im satisfied that Ageass email dated 13 December 2022 gave Ms D more than seven days 
notice of cancelation of the policy and that this was in line with Ageass terms.
I cant say that the additional premium was an unfair alternative.
I can see why Ms D felt Ageas was unfairly trying to push her into paying more money. But I 
consider that the situation arose from Ms Ds qualifying misrepresentation. 
And I consider that Ageas gave Ms D fair and reasonable options to put things right without 
the adverse implications of Ageas recording that it had cancelled the policy.
As Ms D didnt accept either of the alternatives, Ageas wrote to her on 4 January to confirm 
that the policy was cancelled.
Ageas has shown us that the statement of account was as follows:
paid by Ms D £488.04
policy set up fee £  20.00
charge for 33 days motor insurance £  38.25
charge for 33 days breakdown insurance £    4.07
cancellation fee £  50.00
subtotal £112.32 
refunded to Ms D £374.44 
£    1.28
£375.72
Im satisfied that the set-up fee was non-refundable. Im also satisfied that the charges for 
time on cover were a fair proportion of the annual cost of £488.04.
Im also satisfied that the cancellation fee of £50.00 was in line with Ageass terms and not 
unfair in the circumstances.
Im satisfied that after correcting the cancelation date from 4 January to 3 January 2023, 
Ages made a fair and reasonable refund.
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Ageas to do any more in response to this 
complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman