DRN-2586619
The complaint
Mr J complains about eleven loans that he took out with Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending 
Stream, (LS), which he said were unaffordable. He also complains that LS didnt respond 
to his request for help with his financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr J was given 11 instalment loans by LS from February 2016 to October 2018. Loans 7, 10 
and 11 havent been repaid. Loans 10 and 11 have been sold to a third party (T).
A summary of the loans taken out by Mr J is shown below:
Loan 
number Date of loan Repayment 
dateLoan 
amount Number of monthly 
repayments 
1. 28/2/16 26/8/16 £420 6
2. 21/5/16 5/8/16 £220 6
3. 4/5/18 31/7/18 £300 6
4. 6/6/18 31/7/18 £430 6
5. 4/8/18 4/10/18 £240 6
6. 29/8/18 1/10/18 £300 6
7. 3/10/18 Unpaid £160 6
8. 10/10/18 26/10/18 £150 6
9. 13/10/18 26/10/18 £150 6
10. 17/10/18 Unpaid £160 6
11. 27/10/18 Unpaid £300 6
Mr J said that LS let him take out loan after loan. Sometimes the loan was used just to pay 
off a previous loan and to get a few extra pounds. But he struggled further and further with 
debt. Mr J said that he had other loans and credit with other firms, but LS was still lending 
him money. Had LS checked his bank statements it could easily have seen that the loans 
were unaffordable, and he was in a really bad place spending money that he couldnt afford. 
Mr J said that this had been very stressful and mentally draining and he had recently been in 
hospital. 
Mr J said that he contacted LS in early February 2019 as he was in a lot of financial difficulty 
and struggling to pay his loans at the time. He wanted the interest on his loans to be frozen 
and for a payment plan to be set up. He offered to pay LS £25 a month. Mr J received no 
substantive response to his request and sent LS another copy of his email on                     
21 February 2019. LS sent Mr J a brief acknowledgement. Mr J said that LS gave him no 
help whatsoever and refused to set anything up. Mr J subsequently complained to LS in 
early January 2020 about the affordability of his loans and its failure to respond to his 
request for help with his financial difficulties. 
LS said that it had sent a letter to Mr J in April 2019 which was a response to his complaint 
questioning the affordability of certain loans. Mr J hadnt made a complaint about 
affordability at that time, although he had written to LS seeking help for his financial 
difficulties. The letter LS sent didnt deal with his financial difficulties. Instead it was a 
response to an irresponsible lending complaint which Mr J hadnt yet made. The letter also 
referred to Mr J having nine loans when hed taken out 11 loans with LS.
LS then sent a final response letter to Mr J in September 2020 which dealt with Mr Js 
affordability complaint for his 11 loans. LS said that for Loans 1 to 8, the money that Mr J 
had available after his expenses were subtracted was more than the amount needed to pay 
it each month and would still have left Mr J with some money to spend on other things. This 
meant that these loans were affordable. Although Loans 9 to 11 were affordable, LS had 
thought about the number of loans and the time that passed between each loan being 
opened. LS said that it could see that it might not have been a good idea for it to make these 
loans. So, it said it was partially agreeing to Mr Js complaint and that it would refund the 
interest and fees Mr J had paid it for Loans 9 to 11, it would pay 8% simple interest on this 
amount and it would remove any adverse marks it had left on Mr Js credit file for Loans 9   
to 11.
Our adjudicators views
The adjudicator issued two views. His first view was based on Mr J having nine loans and 
the adjudicator recommended that the loans referred to above as Loans 9 to 11 be upheld. 
The adjudicator then received information about all eleven loans and issued a second view. 
He noted that there were two chains of lending. He recommended that Loans 6 to 11 be 
upheld. He said that LS needed to do more checks than it actually did and that it needed to 
fully verify the information Mr J had provided to it about his income and expenditure. If it had 
done so, it would have seen that Mr J was borrowing from a number of different short term 
lenders and spending considerable amounts on gambling. This trend had continued for the 
period after Loan 6 and this together with the fact that Mr J had by this time started to 
regularly overlap his loans ought to have alerted LS to the possibility that he might have 
been having problems managing his money. In these circumstances, the adjudicator thought 
that LS ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr J wouldve been able to sustainably repay 
Loan 6 and any subsequent loans.
LS responded to the second view by offering to settle Loans 6 to 11. It noted that Mr J had 
an outstanding balance to pay after the compensation was deducted from the balance due. 
Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators view. He said that LS had allowed him to open another 
account with another of its businesses (LS2) after he had already missed payments on 
Loan 1. Mr J had asked LS for help on numerous occasions and it failed to help him and 
caused him financial difficulties. He also said that other loan companies had upheld his 
complaints. Mr J already had multiple loans while LS allowed him to take further loans out. 
He would like the loan information and bank statements hed provided to this service looked 
at. Mr J also said that LSs figures in its offer letter needed checking.  The adjudicator checked LSs figures and said that it seemed that the calculations LS had 
worked out seemed to be correct.
Mr J then provided more information to this service about amounts borrowed from LS2 and 
other loans. He believed that had proper checks been made he would not have found 
himself in this situation. His credit report could not have been checked correctly. He also 
referred to the aspect of his complaint about LSs failure to respond to his request for help 
with his financial difficulties.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
investigate.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr J 
and to LS on 12 January 2021. I summarise my findings:
I said that I was sorry to hear that Mr Js health had been affected as a result of his 
borrowing.
Id noted that Mr J had referred to other complaint cases. But I explained that we assessed 
each case on its own merits and it wasnt appropriate to compare the outcomes of 
complaints as the circumstances might be very different.
As there were two aspects to Mr Js complaint, I dealt with each of them under separate 
headings.
Irresponsible lending
Id noted that when LS lent to Mr J the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
LS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that LS should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors included: 
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing might 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable. 
I thought that it was important for me to say that LS was required to establish whether Mr J 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this 
was the case. This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if they were 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Js complaint.
Id noted that LS had offered to settle Loans 6 to 11. So, I didnt propose to investigate these 
loans but said that I would include the redress for these loans below. 
Although the amounts that Mr J needed to repay each month were smaller than if hed taken 
a normal payday loan, he was also committing to making those repayments over a longer 
period. Id also considered that Mr J sometimes had more than one loan owing to LS and 
had taken into account the total monthly payments for the outstanding loans. 
 
Id also noted that Mr J repaid most of his loans earlier than planned. I thought this should 
have caused some concerns to LS. That might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate 
that someone was facing problems managing their money and needing to refinance loans on 
a regular basis. So, Id also taken that into account when looking at whether LS should have 
given the loans to Mr J.
Id thought about whether LSs checks were proportionate for the loans. Id noted that for   
Loan 1, Mr J needed to make a highest monthly repayment of around £201 to repay the 
loan.  I hadnt seen a loan agreement for Loan 1, but the account statement referred to a 
highest monthly payment of around £201. It seemed on the face of it that the repayments 
would have looked relatively moderate compared to Mr Js declared disposable income. 
However, I thought the information LS had gathered should have raised concerns and 
prompted further checks. 
LS had told us about the checks it did before lending Loan 1 to Mr J. It had asked for his 
income which hed declared as £1,400 and his expenses which were £270. 
Id also seen a summary of LSs credit checks. These showed that Mr J had five active 
accounts with a value of £200. But they also showed that Mr J had three defaulted accounts 
with around £3,800 outstanding. And the most recent defaulted account occurred only eight 
months before the credit check. I thought the results of LSs credit checks ought to have 
given it concerns that Mr J already had a relatively recent adverse credit record and that his 
finances might be under pressure. So, I didnt think it was reasonable for LS to rely on the 
information provided to it by Mr J. And I thought LS should have made some additional 
checks such as gathering information about Mr Js other short term borrowing commitments. 
I couldnt see that it had done this.
 Mr J had provided his credit report and bank statements from around the time of Loan 1. I 
thought it was reasonable to rely on these to see what better checks would have likely 
shown. I could see that proportionate checks on Loan 1 would most likely have shown that 
Mr J had taken out a short term loan for £100 with another lender a week before his 
application for Loan 1 and there also appeared to be a second short term loan taken out 
around three months earlier. But overall, I couldnt safely say that if LS had carried out 
proportionate checks before Loan 1, it wouldve seen that Mr J couldnt sustainably make the 
repayments to Loan 1. So, I didnt intend to uphold Mr Js complaint about Loan 1. 
Mr J had applied for Loan 2 whilst Loan 1 was still outstanding, and I could see that hed 
asked for a loan of £1,000. But LS had provided a loan of £220 so it appeared that LS had 
concerns about Mr Js creditworthiness. Id also noted that LS had increased Mr Js declared 
expenses by £160. So, it was aware that Mr J wasnt declaring accurate information about 
his expenses.
Id also noted that Mr J needed to make a highest total monthly repayment of around £240 
for Loans 1 and 2. This was a significant proportion of his disposable income as adjusted by 
LS. 
Id also seen a summary of LSs credit checks before Loan 2. These appeared to show that 
Mr Js financial situation had worsened. He still had five active accounts but the value of 
these had substantially increased to £800. And his credit score had fallen from 769 to 711. In 
view of Mr Js need for credit whilst still repaying Loan 1, the total amount of his repayments 
for both Loans 1 and 2, and his worsening credit situation, I thought LS ought to have sought 
a more comprehensive picture of Mr Js finances when he applied for Loan 2. I couldnt see 
that it had done this.
Id again reviewed Mr Js credit report and bank statements from around the time of Loan 2 
to see what better checks would have shown. I could see that five days before Mr Js 
application for Loan 2, he had borrowed a short term loan for £500 and hed also borrowed 
around £314 from a short term lender around a week before Loan 2. In the previous month 
hed borrowed a high cost credit guarantor loan for £1,500. He already had another short 
term loan which had been in arrears since March 2016. All these loans would have been 
repayable around the same time as Loan 2.  Mr J also had a current account which was over 
its overdraft limit at the time.  Better checks would also have shown that Mr J was gambling 
heavily. So, I thought if LS had made further checks, it would have likely seen that Mr J was 
having difficulties managing his money and wasnt likely to be in a position to sustainably 
repay further credit. So, I didnt think LS should have agreed to lend Loan 2 to Mr J.
 
I could see that there was a gap of around two years between Loans 2 and 3. But Id also 
noted that Mr J borrowed from LS2, another credit business belonging to Gain Credit LLC, 
less than a month after hed repaid Loan 1. Mr J had taken out a running account credit 
facility with LS2. I thought it was reasonable to conclude that LS would have known about  
Mr Js borrowing history with LS2. Id asked LS to provide more information about Mr Js 
borrowing with LS2. But we hadnt received this from LS. But I could see information about 
the account from LS2 in Mr Js credit report. I could see that Mr Js opening balance on the 
account was £205 although the credit limit was £200. I could see that Mr Js balance 
remained over or very near the credit limit until LS2s account went into default in June 2020. 
So, Mr J was still using the account when he took out Loans 3 to 11.
So, I didnt think it would have been reasonable for LS to treat Mr J as a new customer 
before Loan 3 for the purpose of its checks.
Before LS lent Loan 3 to Mr J, it had again asked him for details of his income and his 
normal expenditure. Mr Js income was £1,489 and his declared expenditure was £725. LS had increased Mr Js declared expenditure by £71. This service hadnt received the results 
of LSs credit checks before Loan 3. 
The highest monthly repayment on Loan 3 was around £134. It seemed on the face of it that 
the repayments would have looked relatively moderate compared to Mr Js declared 
disposable income. But as Mr J had been borrowing almost continuously from LSs two 
companies for over 26 months, I thought LS should have been looking to build a clearer 
picture about Mr Js finances before lending to him again.
Id again reviewed Mr Js credit report and bank statements from around the time of Loan 3 
to see what better checks would have shown. I could see that six days before Loan 2, he 
had borrowed a short term loan for £400 and he also had a short term loan outstanding from 
two months earlier as well as his borrowing from LS2. In these circumstances, I thought 
there was a significant risk that Mr J wouldnt have been able to repay Loan 3 without undue 
difficulty or without borrowing further. So, I didnt think LS had acted reasonably in providing 
Loan 3.
Loan 4 was taken out around a month after Loan 3 whilst Loan 3 was still outstanding. The 
loan amount was £430 although Mr J had asked for a loan of £750. So, I thought it was likely 
that LS had concerns about Mr Js creditworthiness when assessing the loan amount. As 
Loan 3 was still outstanding, the highest total monthly repayment for both loans was around 
£270. And again, in view of Mr Js long term borrowing from LS, I didnt think it was 
reasonable for LS to have relied on the information provided by Mr J. Again, I thought LS 
should have been looking to build a clearer picture about Mr Js finances before lending to 
him again.
Id carefully looked at Mr Js bank statements and credit report for the month before Loan 4 
to see what better checks would have shown LS. I could see that Mr J had taken out two 
other short term loans totalling £900 in the ten days before hed applied for Loan 4. I thought 
having seen that information, a responsible lender would have concluded that it was likely  
Mr J was having problems managing his money and would have been unlikely to be able to 
meet the repayments on Loan 4 in a sustainable manner. So, I didnt think LS should have 
agreed to give Mr J this loan. 
Mr J applied for Loan 5 just four days after repaying Loans 3 and 4. I thought it was likely 
that Mr J needed to borrow further from LS in order to fill a hole in his finances that was 
made by making the repayments of Loans 3 and 4. This wasnt a sustainable from of 
borrowing. Id also noted that less than six weeks earlier, LS had given Mr J more time to 
pay Loan 3 as hed told it he had financial difficulties. Notwithstanding this, LS had agreed to 
provide Mr J with a loan of £240 for Loan 5. Id also noted that LSs credit checks showed 
that Mr J had nine active credit accounts, the value of which had doubled since Loan 4. I 
thought Mr Js worsening credit situation together with what LS already knew about Mr Js 
circumstances should have meant that LS ought to have gained a full and complete picture 
of Mr Js financial position before agreeing to lend.   
Id reviewed Mr Js credit report and bank statements for the month before Loan 5 to see 
what better checks would have shown LS. I could see that Mr J had taken out three other 
short term loans totalling £1,030 in the week before hed applied for Loan 5 which would all 
have been repayable at the same time as Loan 5. In these circumstances there was a 
significant risk that Mr J wouldnt have been able to repay Loan 5 without undue difficulties 
or without borrowing further. I didnt think that LS could reasonably have believed that Mr J 
would have been able to make the payments for this loan over the term bearing in mind what 
a proportionate check wouldve likely shown. So, I didnt think that Loan 5 should have been 
provided to Mr J. Subject to any further representations by Mr J or LS my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part and say that LS shouldnt have given Mr J Loans 2 
to 5, and that it needed to pay Mr J some compensation relating to these loans together with 
what it had already offered to pay to settle Loans 6 to 11. So, Id said that LS should put 
things right as shown below. 
In deciding what redress LS should fairly pay in this case Id thought about what might have 
happened had it stopped lending to Mr J from Loan 2, as I was satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there were a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr J might have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between Mr J and this particular lender which he might not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, he might have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, Mr J might have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how it would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which might or might not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Id seen in this case, I certainly didnt think I could 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, I was not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LSs liability in this case for what I was satisfied 
it had done wrong and should put right.
LSs failure to respond to Mr Js request for help with his financial difficulties
The second part of the complaint concerned how Mr J was treated by LS when it was made 
aware of his financial problems. Id noted that Mr J sent LS an email on 2 February 2019 to 
tell it he was under a lot of financial difficulties and unable to pay his loans. He said that he 
needed a payment plan. He was paying out more than he was earning, and he was having 
to make paying his rent arrears a priority as he had been threatened with eviction. Mr J had 
provided information about his other loan payments and offered to pay LS £25 a month. Mr J 
also asked for the interest on the loans to be frozen. 
Id not seen that Mr J had received a response to this request. But I could see that hed sent 
LS another copy of that email on 21 February 2019. Id seen that LS had responded on that 
date to say that it had read Mr Js correspondence and was reviewing the matter.  But Id not 
seen any further responses from LS to Mr Js request for help. 
I could see that LS had sent Mr J three default notices on 1 February 2019 for each of his 
outstanding loans. Id noted that the default notices said that if the borrower was 
experiencing repayment difficulties or hardship then the borrower should let the lender know 
and it would work with the borrower to agree an alternative repayment strategy. Id also 
noted that LS had sent Mr J three formal demands on 20 February 2019. The timing of       
Mr Js two emails in February 2019 suggested they were in response to the default notices 
and formal demands. Id asked the adjudicator to ask LS for its contact notes so that I could see if there was any 
reference on those to a response to Mr Js emails. I couldnt see that wed received a 
response from LS to this request.
I could see that Mr J was distressed by LSs lack of response. He told this Service: -
I was very down at this time and probably at my lowest point. But decided that I needed to 
do something about it and get back on track. In February [2019] I was at a stage where I had 
to pay out over what I was taking in, in wages, and just couldnt do it any more. I was 
borrowing more and more and gambling more and more.it just got worse and worse. 
When they didnt respond to me in 2019 it just made things worse. I didnt know what to pay 
and what not to pay. I was getting bank charges and interest charges from the bank and 
various other places for missed and late payments. I just wanted them to help me I couldnt 
speak to anyone about it. I was just trying to get it sorted out to make life easier as I could no 
longer go forward like this and hearing nothing just made me more depressedI didnt 
understand why they wouldnt help at the time. I got myself in a right state trying to sort it out 
by gambling which also made things worse..Then I realised after asking for help, they 
didnt want to know because they thought I was putting in a claim for the loans, not just 
asking for help. So, they didnt help because of this. I made it clear in the messages that I 
needed help and nothing to do with this. 
I thought that LS could have done more to respond to Mr Js emails knowing that he was 
experiencing financial issues. And I thought that as LS had been made aware of the 
problems Mr J was facing it could have done more at that point to support him. When a 
lender is told about a consumers financial difficulties, Id expect it to be sympathetic and 
positive. As it didnt seem to have responded to LS about his financial difficulties, I didnt 
think that LS had treated Mr J fairly here. And I could see that its failure to respond had 
caused Mr J a considerable amount of trouble and upset. So, I thought it was fair that LS 
should compensate him for that, and I thought that £250 compensation would be appropriate 
here.
putting things right  what LS needs to do
1.pay Mr J £250 compensation; 
2.a) refund the interest and fees Mr J paid for Loans 2 to 6, 8 and 9; 
b) pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement; 
c) remove any adverse information about these loans from Mr Js credit file. 
I understand that Loans 7, 10 and 11 havent been fully repaid. In order to put Mr J back into 
the position he would have been had Loans 7, 10 and 11 not been agreed for him, LS needs 
to ensure that Mr J only repays the principal borrowed on these loans. In other words, he 
should not pay any interest or charges for Loans 7, 10 and 11. So, LS needs to: 
d) remove any interest and charges applied to Loans 7, 10 and 11; 
e) treat all payments that Mr J had made towards Loans 7, 10 and 11 as payments towards 
the principal borrowed; 
f) remove any adverse information about Loans 7, 10 and 11 from Mr Js credit file, once 
they have been settled.
If there are capital balances outstanding on Loans 7, 10 and 11 after steps d) and e) have 
been taken, LS can use the refunds from steps 2a) and b) above to reduce these balances 
and any remaining refund should be paid to Mr J. If after applying the refunds, there is still 
an outstanding capital balance then LS needs to treat Mr J fairly and sympathetically in this 
matter. This may mean agreeing a mutually agreeable repayment plan with him. As Loans 10 and 11 have been sold to T, then LS needs to buy these debts back before 
deducting any refunds. If it doesnt do this, or cant do this, then it needs to work with T to 
bring about steps d) to f) above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest. LS must give Mr J a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If LS intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Mr J responded to my provisional decision to say that it was a fair outcome.
LS hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Mr J and LS have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the 
complaint and require LS to pay Mr J some compensation and to take the steps set out 
above.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, to pay the compensation and 
to take the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman