DRN-3356649
The complaint
X complains Sainsburys Bank Plc refused a further payment freeze on his loan when his 
income was impacted by the global pandemic, and they recorded a default on his credit file.
What happened
X had a personal loan provided by Sainsburys. In April 2020, he wrote to Sainsburys and 
said he had no income due to the impact of the global pandemic. He asked them to consider 
providing a payment break. X also cancelled the direct debit relating to his loan repayments.
In June 2020, Sainsburys agreed an emergency payment freeze for June, July and August 
2020, despite X having missed payments due in April and May 2020. The repayments were 
due to start again in September 2020.
X wrote to Sainsburys again in October 2020. He told them hed had no income for some 
time and couldnt make any payments for a minimum of six months due to the financial 
impact of the global pandemic. But Sainsburys werent able to agree a further payment 
freeze. 
As a suitable repayment plan couldnt be agreed, Sainsburys wrote to X in December 2020 
and transferred his outstanding loan to a debt collection agency. But X wasnt happy with 
Sainsburys actions. So, he complained to them. He said they hadnt replied to his letter in 
October 2020. He thought they shouldve been more supportive and confirmed he was 
willing to make repayments once his circumstances improved.
Sainsburys responded to Xs complaint in January 2021. They didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. They said theyd written to X following his letter in October 2020, asking him 
to contact them. They confirmed theyd decided to pass his account to a debt collection 
agency as hed told them he couldnt make repayments for at least six months. 
Xs loan account has since defaulted, and this has been recorded on his credit file with the 
credit reference agencies.
X wasnt happy with Sainsburys response to his complaint. He thought they shouldve been 
more sympathetic and supportive of his situation. So, he asked this service to investigate his 
complaint further.
Having investigated the circumstances of Xs complaint, our adjudicator didnt think 
Sainsburys had done anything wrong. Our adjudicator thought Sainsburys had tried to 
provide support and even if a further payment freeze had been agreed, the ultimate outcome 
wouldnt have changed.
X didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. He thought Sainsburys shouldve been more 
supportive. So, he asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders in April 2020 which 
explained what they expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising 
out of the global pandemic. They provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.  
While X did write to Sainsburys in April 2020, this wasnt picked up by them until May 2020, 
after hed already missed two scheduled repayments. But despite this, Sainsburys did agree 
to Xs request. They confirmed their agreement in a letter in June 2020. They wrote to X 
again in July 2020 confirming the terms of the payment deferral. From what Ive seen, 
Sainsburys actions here appear to have complied with the FCAs guidance.
Unfortunately, Xs circumstances hadnt improved by September 2020, when his next loan 
repayment fell due. Xs letter was clear that he didnt expect his situation to improve for at 
least 6 months.
Further guidance was issued by the FCA in July 2020. This extended these measures, and 
where consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised 
to freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months. In September 2020, the FCA 
announced that the support scheme would change from the end of October 2020. From 
then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty  but it was down to their 
discretion and customers circumstances. And  reporting to credit reference agencies was 
reintroduced for people that had already had the maximum six months of payment deferrals.
Its clear that the FCAs guidance was only ever intended to provide payment deferrals for a 
maximum total period of six months. The FCA also made it clear that their guidance only 
applied where difficulties were considered to be temporary. They were never intended to be 
a longer-term solution. Where that was the case, business should consider alternative forms 
of support and forbearance.
Given Xs circumstances coupled with the repayments hed previously missed in April and 
May 2020, I dont think a further payment deferral wouldve been an appropriate solution 
here. So, I cant reasonably conclude that Sainsburys were at fault when they refused Xs 
further request. It appears Sainsburys had written to X encouraging him to contact them to 
discuss alternative support. Unfortunately, an alternative repayment plan couldnt be agreed. 
Sainsburys decided to pass Xs account to a debt collection agency. This and the resultant 
default meant that no further interest or charges would be added to Xs outstanding debt. 
Although this was recorded on Xs credit file, this was already the case with the repayments 
hed missed. 
While I appreciate X will be disappointed, I cant agree that Sainsburys acted 
inappropriately. I think the circumstances here left Sainsburys with little, if any, alternative 
and at least ensured that Xs debt didnt continue to increase as a result of further interest 
and charges being applied.
I also dont believe Sainsburys did anything wrong when they reported missed repayments 
or the default on Xs credit file. They were obliged to do this in order to accurately reflect 
what actually happened. So, while X may disagree, I shant be asking Sainsburys to do 
anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Xs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 Dave Morgan
Ombudsman