DRN-3204850
The complaint
Mr Z has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Mr Z had a credit card with Lloyds. In October 2018, he called them to arrange a direct debit 
to pay off his cards full balance. The outstanding balance was over £2,000. The staff 
member confirmed with Mr Z the amount that would be taken.
When the direct debit payment came in, Mr Z quickly spent the full limit of the credit card. His 
direct debit was then returned unpaid, leaving his credit card with a balance of over twice his 
credit limit.
Mr Z did not repay this balance, and the account defaulted in April 2019. Lloyds thought Mr Z 
had deliberately forced his credit card beyond its agreed limit by misusing the direct debit 
system. They registered a marker against him at CIFAS for uncleared effects fraud.
In October 2020, Mr Z lost his job, and said this was due to the marker. He complained. Mr Z 
explained that, at the time of the incident, he had good income and assets, and so had no 
reason to artificially extend his credit limit. He said hed had to go abroad, so hed set up the 
direct debit, and hed probably just made a mistake and assumed the debit had gone 
through. He said he didnt regularly check his accounts and had just been careless. He said 
he later fell into financial difficulties and couldnt repay the debt.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found that Mr Z had set up the direct debit for a specific date and a specific amount, and 
would need to have timed things carefully in order to be able to use the credit card before 
the direct debit bounced. They found it was unlikely this wouldve happened by accident. 
They noted that he hadnt brought the balance down afterwards, even though Mr Z had said 
he had good income and assets at the time.
Mr Z didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr Z and Lloyds a provisional decision on 8 November 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to register this marker, Lloyds were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr Z had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I currently think Lloyds did have sufficient grounds to register this 
marker. Ill explain why.
I understand Mr Zs argument that this was all a mistake. But I can see that he specifically 
arranged for this direct debit to pay off his account in full. And according to the record of the 
call, the staff member confirmed the exact amount that would be paid  over £2,000.
Ive looked at Mr Zs current account at the time, and I can see that it was well over its 
overdraft limit. So there wasnt any money available there to pay this direct debit  let alone 
anywhere near over £2,000. And this was not just a recent issue  Mr Zs current account 
had been consistently at or over its overdraft limit for months beforehand. So even if Mr Z 
didnt check his account often, as hes said, he would have reasonably known that this direct 
debit payment would not possibly have gone through. But he specifically arranged it anyway. 
This strongly suggests that what happened next was deliberate.
Once the direct debit payment credited his account, Mr Z had only a relatively short period 
before it returned unpaid. It is unlikely that he would happen to have spent on his card during 
this short period  not least given how rarely hed been spending on this card in the run-up to 
this incident. And because Mr Z had asked for this direct debit to go out at a specific point, 
he would have known exactly when hed be able to use the card before the direct debit got 
returned, which again fits with this being done deliberately.
Further, as unlikely as this would have been to happen once, I note that this situation has 
happened multiple times for Mr Z  making it seem even more likely to have been deliberate.
I also note that when the direct debit had temporarily been credited, Mr Z spent as much as 
he possibly could have  using up his entire credit limit exactly. He effectively doubled his 
limit when the direct debit returned unpaid. This was far more than he would normally spend. 
Again, it seems most unlikely that he would happen to have done this by accident. But it fits 
very well with the possibility that hed known the direct debit was going to bounce, and so 
was trying to spend as much as possible before it did.
Lastly, while this is a more minor point, its worth noting that Mr Z does not appear to have 
made any efforts to pay off the account for a long time afterwards, despite having made 
regular payments before. I understand that some time later he fell into difficulties, but he did 
also say he had good income and assets at the time of the incident. And if this was a 
genuine mistake, and hed genuinely thought hed had the money available, then I might 
have expected Mr Z to have spoken to Lloyds or to at least have tried to rectify the situation 
somewhat. Whereas by leaving the account unpaid, it does fit better with the possibility that 
hed misused it to spend credit he wasnt entitled to.
In summary, I think the evidence strongly suggests that Mr Z deliberately misused his 
account here. Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that 
Mr Z did this deliberately, nor any evidence which reasonably shows that this was just an 
accident. So while I understand this will come as a great disappointment for Mr Z, I currently 
think that it was fair for Lloyds to register the appropriate marker with CIFAS.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
6 December 2021. But neither Mr Z nor Lloyds sent me any new evidence or arguments to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman