DRN-2273254
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs H are unhappy about how UK Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with their claim 
under their home emergency policy when their boiler stopped working.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs Hs boiler stopped working. So, they contacted UKI to arrange for an engineer 
to come out under their home emergency policy. An engineer attended the next day and 
found that the boiler was beyond economic repair. 
UKI offered Mr A and Mrs H £250 towards a new boiler. Mr A and Mrs H turned this down as 
they thought that the policy provided for more than this as a contribution towards a boiler. 
So, Mr A and Mrs H complained to UKI. When UKI replied it maintained its decision on how 
to settle the claim.
Mr A and Mrs H complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that UKI had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
As Mr A and Mrs H did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A and Mrs Hs boiler was declared beyond economic repair because the cost of repairing 
the boiler was more than 85% of the manufacturers current retail price. Mr A and Mrs H 
have said that they should have been offered more towards the cost a new boiler, including 
£250 for the cost of alternative accommodation and Mr As pay for the day on which the 
engineer attended.
Ive read the policy terms and conditions. These said:
If we find out your boiler is beyond economic repair, we will pay £250 towards the cost of a 
new one.
So, on that basis, I think it was reasonable for UKI to offer £250 towards the cost of a new 
boiler, as that was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr A and Mrs H have said that they should have been offered more money towards a new 
boiler because there was a separate £500 limit for the emergency assistance call out itself. 
The policy said:
we will pay up to £500 (including VAT) for each emergency assistance call out to cover the 
cost of:
 the call out
 labour at your home
 parts.
So, I think the policy is clear about what the £500 is for and that it is to deal with the costs 
related to the emergency assistance call out only. For example, there was a cost for the 
engineer to attend and this was covered under this part of the policy. The policy didnt say 
that some or all of the £500 could also be used as a contribution towards the cost of a new 
boiler. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to say that UKI should pay more towards the 
cost of the boiler based on this section of the policy.
Mr A and Mrs H have also complained that they werent offered alternative accommodation 
as they stayed at a friends house for some of the time until their boiler was replaced. They 
have said that they should be paid the £250 for alternative accommodation under the terms 
of the policy.
Ive looked at the wording of the policy. This said:
In the event that your home is not fit to be lived in as a result of an emergency and 
remaining so overnight, we shall also at your request, arrange and pay up to £250, including 
VAT in total for:
 one nights accommodation for you.
Ive listened to the phone call where Mr A and Mrs H reported that their boiler wasnt 
working. During that phone call, the call handler asked whether there were any health and 
safety issues or vulnerable people in the home. Mr A said that there was a young child and 
an adult over 70 years old. The call handler asked if there was heating and Mr A said there 
wasnt and that he would buy some heaters. So, although Mr A explained about who was in 
the household, I dont think there was an indication that their home wasnt fit to be lived in or 
that Mr A and Mrs H might require accommodation.
I also note that, according to the wording of the policy, the £250 for accommodation wasnt a 
fixed amount that would be paid to the policyholder. Instead, it was a maximum amount that 
UKI would pay to an accommodation provider for accommodation that it had arranged. So, I 
dont think that this was an allowance that was payable directly to Mr A and Mrs H.
Im aware that Mr A and Mrs H have also said that they had to stay elsewhere for some of 
the time until the new boiler was fitted and that they think this also means they should be 
paid £250 for alternative accommodation. So, Ive thought about this as well. The engineer 
came out the day after the fault was reported and declared the boiler beyond economic 
repair. At that point, the only part of the policy that applied was for UKI to offer the £250 
contribution towards a new boiler, which it offered the same day. Mr A and Mrs H turned it 
down. However, UKI wasnt responsible for arranging for a new boiler to be fitted or the 
timings of this happening. So, if the timings for fitting the new boiler werent what Mr A and 
Mrs H expected, they would need to discuss this with the company that fitted the boiler. But I 
cant see that this means that UKI should make a payment towards alternative 
accommodation.
Mr A also said that he should be paid his daily rate for being at home the day the engineer 
came out. The terms of the policy dont provide an allowance for loss of earnings. We would 
also expect a certain level of disruption to deal with an insurance claim, which includes 
sometimes needing to be at home for an engineer.
When I listened to the phone call reporting the fault with the boiler, Mr A was asked when he 
was available for an engineer to visit. Initially, Mr A said that the engineer could come any 
time the same day or in the evening of the next day. Mr A then said that the engineer could come at any time the following day as someone else would be at home. I note that Mr A and 
Mrs H said that the engineer attended at about 8.30am the next day.
Im also aware that, although Mr A and Mrs H then needed to arrange for a new boiler to be 
fitted, it wasnt part of UKIs role to supply or fit the boiler. Mr A and Mrs H said that by about 
9am that day UKI had offered them £250 towards a new boiler. Based on the terms of the 
policy, that was all it was required to do by that point. 
So, based on the way that the claim was handled and the terms of the policy, I cant see any 
reason why UKI should pay Mr As daily rate for the day on which the engineer attended or 
while Mr A and Mrs H were arranging for a new boiler to be fitted.
Mr A and Mrs H have also said that it caused them stress to deal with the boiler issues. I 
accept that it can be stressful to deal with issues like this, particularly as they are often 
unexpected. However, I think that UKI promptly sent an engineer to deal with the boiler and 
that although Mr A and Mrs H then had to arrange a new boiler, as Ive previously explained, 
UKI werent responsible for arranging this. So, while I can understand that this was a 
stressful situation, I dont think that was because of the actions of UKI or that it should pay 
compensation as a result.
Mr A and Mrs H were also unhappy about how their complaint was handled by UKI. 
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so I am not able to comment on this, as it 
doesnt come within the remit of this service. 
So, thinking about all of the above, I think that UKI offered an appropriate amount towards a 
replacement boiler and that it acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. I dont 
uphold this complaint or require UKI to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman