DRN-4024524
The complaint
Mr K says Hastings Insurance Services Limited made an error when amending his motor 
insurance policy and that it wouldnt honour the quote it gave him due to the error.
What happened
Mr K took the policy out in June 2022. He tried to get a quote for a new car in August 2022, 
but Hastings couldnt provide one, as he didnt have a registration plate number. Mr K called 
again in October 2022, having obtained quotes elsewhere. An advisor entered the details of 
the wrong car and Mr K was quoted an extra £203.78 to insure it., which he accepted. 
When he noted the error in his documents the next day, Mr K told Hastings. It said thered be 
an extra premium of £204.74 to pay. Mr K says he wouldnt have accepted the quote had the 
correct price (a rise of £408.52) been quoted initially. It would have made the policy (at 
£743.51) much more expensive than others available at the time. Hastings offered him £30 
for its error. Later on, in response to his complaint, it said he could cancel the policy free of 
charge. But Mr K says by then the other quotes had risen by around £100. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ks complaint. He thought Hastings should honour the 
original price it had quoted. It asked to see the other quotes Mr K had obtained. It said the 
cheapest one wasnt relevant, as it wasnt addressed to Mr K. It accepted that the second 
cheapest quote (£555.52) was valid, but it noted that the quote was open until 6 October 
2022. It queried why  given that Mr K was aware of the new, increased premium it had 
supplied on 4 October 2022 - he didnt accept that quote.  
Mr K said the name on the first quote is one he uses in correspondence and that hed used it 
at times in corresponding with Hastings and with us. He says he didnt accept the other 
cheaper quote because - as Hastings had made the error - he thought that when he pointed 
it out it wouldnt ask him to pay more. In addition, he didnt know what the cost of cancelling 
the policy would be - and he wasnt offered free cancellation until 19 October 2022, by when 
other quotes were higher. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr K was told initially what the increase in premium for the new car would be, his 
existing policy through Hastings was still competitively priced. The cost of it wasnt out of line 
with the quotes for other policies, however, so Mr K had no reason to query it. He accepted it 
in good faith, having provided all the right details. When Hastings then quoted a further £200 
plus, in order to put its error right, the policy became much more expensive than others.
 
Theres evidence on the file showing that the name given on the cheapest quote appears in 
some of Mr Ks correspondence, so I think he can show that the quote was for him. But as 
Hastings pointed out, it may have expired. Mr K had a couple of days to accept the next 
cheapest quote (at around £555) - or several others that were all cheaper than the increased 
price of his old policy. In hindsight, that may have been the right option to take, as Mr K 
could always have complained about any cancellation charges made by Hastings later. But I 
think hes given a reasonable explanation for why he didnt do that. 
Hastings says it gave Mr K the correct price for the amended policy - and that the insurer, 
not Hastings, set the premium. Whilst thats not in dispute, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Mr K to assume that Hastings  having made the error that led to him accepting the first 
sum it quoted  would honour that sum. I dont think theres any doubt that he wouldnt have 
accepted the correct new price for the policy had Hastings told him what it was initially. 
Although I agree that he could have cancelled the policy, Mr K wasnt sure initially what that 
would cost - and he wasnt given the option of free cancellation until a few weeks later. I 
think taking up that offer is still likely to have left him in a worse position than he would have 
been in, but for Hastingss error. Hed have had to find new (probably higher) quotes at that 
point, so hed have been inconvenienced further and would have paid more anyway. 
It seems Hastings thinks it made a minor error and that that Mr K was at fault in not acting 
differently to avoid paying more than hed intended. But as Mr K provided all the correct 
information to Hastings I think he should have been able to rely on the quote it provided. I 
think he was inconvenienced and lost out financially directly as a result of its error. So 
although I think its arguable that Mr K could have acted differently, on balance I think it 
would be fair and reasonable for Hastings to honour the original sum it quoted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited to pay Mr K the difference between the original sum it quoted for his new car and the 
higher sum he paid for it, due to its error. It should add interest to the sum due, at the simple 
yearly rate of 8%, from the date of payment to the date of settlement. If Hastings thinks its 
required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell 
Mr K how much it has taken off. It should also provide a tax deduction certificate if required, 
so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman