DRN-1720123
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs R say that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
("PPI") policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy which Mr and Mrs R took out in 1995 
to protect their monthly mortgage payments. The mortgage was in Mr and Mrs R's joint 
names. The policy cost around £34 per month. It would have paid a monthly benefit of 
around £600 if Mr R had been off sick or had lost his job and had made a successful claim. 
HSBC has told us that the mortgage account was closed in September 1996, less than a 
year after Mr and Mrs R took out the PPI, and the PPI policy was cancelled around the same 
time.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she said 
that as a managing director, Mr R was self-employed, and this would have made it difficult 
for him to make a successful unemployment claim under the policy. She also said that 
Companies House's records show that Mr R was a director of several other companies when 
he took out the PPI, and they'd all have needed to cease trading in order for him to make a 
successful unemployment claim under the policy.
HSBC disagreed with the adjudicator's view. It said, in summary, that Mr R was a managing 
director of a large, listed company, and would have been an employee of that company. As 
such, he would have been able to claim on the PPI if he'd been made redundant. And it said 
it considered it likely that the other directorships were linked to his principal role as managing 
director of his employer, and that if Mr R had been made redundant, he would have ceased 
to be a director of the other companies too. So it didn't accept that Mr R's employment 
situation would have prevented him from making a successful claim.
As HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators view, the complaint was passed to me.
 
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs R and to HSBC on 3 March 2020. I summarise my findings:
I explained that where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide 
what I thinks most likely to have happened, based on the information I have.
 HSBC hasn't been able to provide us with any of the paperwork that Mr and Mrs R 
signed when they took out the mortgage or the PPI. I didnt think that was surprising 
or unreasonable, given how long ago that was. Mr and Mrs R have commented that 
HSBC recommended that they take the PPI, but they didn't realise it had been added 
to their account.
 
I couldnt be sure what was said when Mr and Mrs R discussed PPI with HSBC. But I 
couldnt fairly conclude, without stronger evidence, that it was more likely than not 
that the policy was set up without their knowledge, or that it wasn't made clear to 
them that they had a choice about whether to take the cover. There's a note on 
HSBC's computer records which says that Mr and Mrs R were reducing their 
mortgage, but that the monthly benefit was to remain the same. I could also see a 
note that the policy was cancelled at Mr and Mrs R's request. That suggested to me 
that they were aware, at the time, that they had the policy.
 
Taking everything into account, based on the evidence provided, I thought that the 
PPI policy was set up following discussions between Mr and Mrs R and HSBC. And I 
thought it was more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R agreed to the policy, having 
decided what level of cover they wished to take. But I could fully understand how 
they may no longer remember this, so many years after the event.
 
Mr and Mrs R have told us that HSBC recommended the PPI to them. HSBC hasn't 
been able to confirm whether advice was given, but for the purposes of this decision, 
I'd assumed that it did provide advice. This is to Mr and Mrs R's advantage, as it 
means that HSBC had a responsibility to check that the PPI was suitable for them. 
But it didnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what I'd seen of Mr and Mrs R's 
circumstances at the time.
 
As I'd noted above, our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld, as she 
considered that Mr R was self-employed at the time. But Mr R's told us that he was 
employed as a managing director when he took the policy out. And he's told us that 
he'd have been eligible for redundancy pay from his employer if he'd been made 
redundant, and he'd have received statutory sick pay if he'd been off sick. Based on 
what Mr R's told us, it appeared to me that he was, as HSBC have suggested, an 
employee, and not self-employed. I also accepted that it looks as if Mr R's other 
directorships at the time were linked to his main job, and it seemed likely that if he'd 
been made redundant from that, he'd have stopped being a director of the other 
companies too.
 
And so having considered all the evidence that had been provided, I didnt think there 
was any reason why Mr R's employment status would have prevented him from 
making a successful claim on the policy.
 
From what I'd seen of his circumstances at the time, it didnt look as if Mr R would 
have been affected by any other restrictions (such as those about pre-existing 
medical conditions). So even if HSBC didn't point those provisions out, I didnt think 
this would have made a difference to Mr and Mrs R's decision to take the policy out.
 It may be that HSBC could have explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But 
I was satisfied that Mr and Mrs R were interested in the cover, and it appeared to 
have been affordable to them. Given that the policy could have provided them with a 
useful benefit, I thought it was more likely than not that they'd still have taken it out 
even if HSBC had provided better information about the cost. And as they were 
paying for it monthly, they could have cancelled it at any time if their circumstances 
changed or if they no longer wanted the cover.
 
So based on everything I'd seen so far, I didn't think the PPI was mis-sold, and I wasnt 
planning to uphold Mr and Mrs R's complaint.
further submissions
HSBC has told us that it doesnt have anything further to add. Mr and Mrs R havent 
provided any further comments or evidence, and the time for doing so has now expired.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Having done so, I cant see any reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional 
decision.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman