DRN-2947212
The complaint
Miss D complains that IGO4 Limited (trading as WiseDriving) unfairly cancelled her motor 
insurance policy.   
For the purposes of this decision, all reference to Miss D includes her representative. 
What happened
In summary, Miss D took out a car insurance policy which WiseDriving arranged. This 
required a telematics device to be fitted to her car. A few months later, in November 2019, 
Miss D changed vehicles and so WiseDriving told her she needed to pay for and self-install a 
new device. 
Due to an oversight, WiseDriving first sent out this device to Miss D in early January 2020. It 
gave her a set time to install it, otherwise it told her it would cancel the policy. Miss D 
experienced problems when fitting the device to her car and contacted WiseDriving to make 
it aware. She thought she had employed reasonable endeavours to meet the deadline given, 
with the cause of the delay being a faulty device. But in the end, WiseDriving cancelled the 
policy, stating that it hadnt been installed in time and Miss D had been given sufficient 
opportunity. 
Where these material facts are not in dispute, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive condensed events in less detail than they were presented. I hope Miss D
and WiseDriving wont take this as a discourtesy. Ours is an informal dispute resolution 
service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint  our rules 
allow me to do that. If Ive not mentioned something, its not because Ive ignored it. Rather, 
its because I didnt think its material to the outcome of the complaint.
Having reviewed everything carefully, I agree with the conclusions reached by the 
investigator for the following reasons:  
1. Its common ground that WiseDriving was responsible for the delay in providing the new 
telematics device following Miss Ds change in vehicle. So, as a starting point, Miss D 
could only attempt to install the device in early January 2020  around six weeks after 
she first notified WiseDriving of the change. WiseDriving has conceded that this was a 
failing on its part, which meant that no data was being reported during this span of time. 
2. Its a condition of the contract of insurance that the policy may be cancelled if a 
WiseDriving telematics device was not in use within fourteen days of the date Miss D 
notified it of any change in vehicle. But, once the new device was eventually sent to   
Miss D, Im not persuaded that she had the full fourteen days. On the contrary, based on 
the accepted sequence of events, she had more like ten days. 
3. Whats more, we know that the absence of a device being in use was not identified by 
WiseDriving. Instead, it was Miss D that proactively chased the delivery of her new 
device which she had paid for months prior. Overall, I must consider that there were a 
host of errors from WiseDriving here. 
4. On 7 January 2020, WiseDriving sent a notice of cancellation which gave seven days for 
the device to be installed. Its unclear to me why seven days were given in light of the 
policy condition Ive set out above. But regardless, this letter clearly stated that: If we 
dont hear from you by 14 January 2020, well unfortunately have to cancel your policy. 
Its not in dispute that Miss D reacted in time; she spoke to WiseDriving twice on the 
phone on 13 January 2020.  
5. Ive listened to call recordings of these two conversations. Miss D was told to provide 
images of her attempted installation of the telematics device to her car. She was asked 
to email this information to a designated email address, for an advisor to get back to her 
with technical support. Based on what she was advised, I find it reasonable for Miss D to 
have concluded that as long as she sent the requested information across 
WiseDriving would get back to her with the next steps. In other words, she could rely on 
a response before being expected to do anything further, having responded in time to 
avoid the cancellation.     
6. Miss D has provided evidence to show that she did indeed send what was necessary. 
This includes email receipts which show that she used the correct contact details as 
advised. But WiseDriving submits that she failed to email this information on 13 January 
2020. It alleges that the evidence that Miss D has provided must have been falsified, 
relying on its record keeping and systems to support its position. Yet, it hasnt clarified 
how on the one hand its simply not possible for this email to have been missed. When, 
on the other, the change in Miss Ds vehicle was not actioned appropriately (which is 
centred around the tracking and responding of information). Especially, as there was a 
key condition in the policy which required a device to be in continuous use.
7. Besides, I cannot ignore that WiseDriving had made more than one unexplained mistake 
in the months leading up to the cancellation. To give another example, when Miss D sent 
it correspondence raising a complaint in mid-January 2020, this was overlooked by 
WiseDriving, with its final response to the complaint being unnecessarily delayed as a 
result.   
8. In any case, I understand the systems WiseDriving are relying on are complex and made 
up of automatic responses and other technical information that would require an expert 
witness to interpret. Our role is to determine the facts and law based on the evidence 
presented  not to interpret the make-up of an automated system without accompanying 
expert evidence. So, a technical expert may well agree with WiseDrivings submission. 
But, for the avoidance of doubt, I dont find an expert witness necessary to determine this 
complaint. 9. I say this because, Im satisfied theres sufficient evidence for me to reach a fair and 
reasonable outcome. On balance, its my judgment that theres satisfactory documentary 
record that Miss D followed the instructions given to her by WiseDriving. The evidence 
shes provided persuades me that she did in fact email the images across on 13 January 
2020. Indeed, shes provided a copy of the automated acknowledgement email she 
received from WiseDriving immediately afterwards. 
10. The falsifying of documents is a strong accusation. Such allegations should not be made 
lightly or without concrete evidence  and WiseDriving has had a fair opportunity to 
substantiate this claim in its submissions to our service. However, overall, I am not 
persuaded by the system-related information is has put forward. Ultimately, it is for me to 
decide what evidence to accept and what weight to place on that. Everything considered, 
I find the evidence presented by Miss D more persuasive in the circumstances.  
11. After all, Miss D is not accountable for WiseDrivings systems. Having a suitable 
telematics device in use was always contingent on it being in working order and installed 
with the proper support of WiseDriving. Im satisfied Miss D employed reasonable 
endeavours to have it fitted correctly, and within the required time. 
12. So, in conclusion, I dont find it fair or reasonable for WiseDriving to have cancelled the 
policy.  
Putting things right
In light of my findings, I think WiseDriving now needs to put things right. In the letters that 
were sent to Miss D about the outstanding balance, WiseDriving made it clear that the debt 
had been passed to a debt collection agency and that this could affect her credit rating. As 
things stand, the outstanding balance came as a consequence of WiseDriving cancelling the 
policy. Given that I think this cancellation was unfair, I think WiseDriving should write off the 
debt and arrange for any corresponding entry on Miss Ds credit file to be amended to reflect 
that the policy was not in fact cancelled, with no outstanding balance ever being overdue.
For the same reason, I also consider that the cancellation notice now needs to be removed 
from Miss Ds record for insurances purposes. WiseDriving should write a letter to Miss D 
explaining that her policy was cancelled due to its own error. This then allows Miss D to 
show this to her subsequent insurers in order to get any refund of any premium she may 
have been charged due to the cancellation of this policy.  
On receipt of evidence that Miss D had to pay more for a subsequent policy that she took out 
directly after this one, WiseDriving should reimburse Miss D the difference between that 
premium and her WiseDriving premium. And as Miss D has been without the use of those 
sums, WiseDriving should add simple interest to any amount reimbursed at a rate of 8% a 
year from the date Miss D paid for the replacement policy to the date WiseDriving 
reimburses her.
I also think WiseDriving should pay Miss D compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
She was confused and upset that her policy was cancelled when she thought shed done all 
she could to avoid that. And Miss D was inconvenienced by having to find other insurance 
when that could have been avoided. 
The overall award recommended by our investigator was £150, taking account of the 
charge(s) WiseDriving has already agreed to waiver. All in all, I think this is a proportionate 
reflection of the impact caused to Miss D  it follows that I find this award fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require 
IGO4 Limited (trading as WiseDriving) to:
 Subject to clarifying it with Miss Ds subsequent broker/insurer, refund the extra sum 
she paid for her new policy as a result of the cancellation of this WiseDriving policy
 Add interest to the refund, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement
 Remove any record of the policy having been cancelled from any relevant databases
 Provide Miss D with a letter saying the policy was cancelled in error which she can 
present to her current and future insurers (if she so wishes)
 Award Miss D a total of £150 compensation
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman