DRN-4317081
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd decided not to refund him after he was the victim of an 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. 
What happened
Mr K says he received a cold call from a company Ill refer to as P, followed by a letter, 
offering assistance in recovering funds that hed lost in an investment some years earlier. 
But this turned out to be a scam. 
He was told his initial investment of £25,000 was not lost, as hed previously thought, and 
was now worth approximately £90,000. The scammers explained his money was being held 
in escrow and P could help to recover and return this to Mr K. 
Mr K made payments from other accounts and using other sources of funds. This complaint 
relates to his losses from his Monzo account.
Mr K made payments from his Monzo account totalling £24,000 between 17 and 27th May 
2022. The payments related to various fees and commissions that the scammers said were 
needed to release his investment funds.
Mr K said he researched P and found them on Companies House. He said P didnt have a 
website but there were no other red flags when looking online. He went on to receive various 
documents from P for the payments, some of which he was told would be refundable when 
his investment profits were released. 
Mr K said, when trying to contact P, after he was told his money would be released to him, 
he couldnt reach them and so he thought it could be a scam. He says it was at this point he 
checked the address on the letters and invoices hed received and realised the address was 
for a different registered company.
Monzo looked into Mr Ks scam claim. Initially it said it had attempted to recover Mr Ks funds 
and it found some was recoverable and that it was chasing this up with the receiving bank. It 
also said it wouldnt be refunding Mr K as he didnt take enough steps to check who he was 
paying and what for.  
At the time of making the payments from his Monzo account Mr K had already reported the 
scam to two of his other banks. And in once instance, had reported one set of transactions 
as part of a scam and preceeded to make further payments using the same bank account. 
After the first four payments Mr K reported the scam to Monzo on 20 May 202. Monzo asked 
Mr K to provide further information through its online chat feature. But Mr K continued to 
make payments to P (using different payees) until 27 May 2022. He initially said he had 
made a mistake in thinking P had scammed him and hes been badly advised that it was a 
scam but the payments hed made from his Monzo account were not fraudulent. Monzo 
responded on 25 May 2022 and said, looking at the payments there is a high chance this 
was a scam. Mr K proceeded to explain to Monzo that his other bank had told him it was a 
scam but that he believed they had got it wrong. Mr K says he was called by someone 
pretending to be from Monzo claiming there was a block on releasing his returns of 
£132,000. He said the number he was called from appeared to be from Monzo. 
Monzo confirmed it hadnt called Mr K and the number he was called on wasnt a Monzo one 
and it didnt appear to a spoofed number either (a number made to look like it belongs to 
Monzo). 
One of our investigators looked into things. She felt Mr Ks losses werent covered by the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code as Mr K had already received full 
reimbursement for his losses relating to the original investment. So, he couldnt have thought 
there was a genuine claim for the money that P was claiming to return to him. 
She also said that even if the bank had intervened, she didnt think it would have made a 
difference. Having listened to calls between Mr K and a different bank, during which he 
admitted to being the victim of a scam and said he wouldnt go on to make any further 
payments, but then did. 
She also considered that Mr K was advised the previous year about recovery scams, and he 
said he would change his telephone number and not continue to make payments. She went 
on to say Mr K didnt select the correct payment reason when carrying out these transactions 
and he said he would make the payments from a different bank if they were blocked. His 
bank account provider blocked Mr Ks account and asked him to visit the branch, but he 
continued to make payments from a different account. 
During the course of her investigations the investigator identified that further funds of 
£158.51 were recoverable and Monzo ought to have acted quicker in one instance and if it 
had a further £4.30 could have been recovered. These amounts have now been refunded to 
Mr K. 
Mr K was unhappy with the overall outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter. He thought what he did at the time was enough. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not recommending that Mr K receive a refund for his losses from Monzo. Ill go on to 
explain why Monzo doesnt need to refund Mr K in this instance. 
I disagree with the investigators initial finding that Mr Ks payments are not covered by the 
CRM code as I believe they are. I think even if Mr K had been refunded his losses from the 
initial investment from his bank, its possible he could still seek to recover his initial funds 
and any returns made on those funds. So, I dont think there is an issue with Mr K believing 
the payments were for a legitimate purpose but were in fact fraudulent. And the payments 
are covered by the CRM code.
But I do agree with the investigators finding that Monzo isnt liable to refund Mr K under the 
CRM code. She said, and I agree, that better intervention by Monzo wouldnt have made a 
difference. Ill explain why in more detail.
Did Mr K have a reasonable basis of belief when making these payments?
Ive started by considering whether Mr K had a reasonable basis of belief when deciding to 
make these payments. Having considered Mr Ks actions at the time he made these payments, his previous scam 
claims, all the correspondence hes provided and the banks notes, Im satisfied that Mr K 
was or ought reasonably to have known he wasnt going to recover the funds he originally 
invested. Each time he appears to have been scammed, hes told his initial investment is a 
different amount (far larger than his initial investment) and given a range of different reasons 
why he needed to pay varying amounts, in order to access his funds. And he had been told 
and seems aware that all the previous recovery attempts were in fact scams. 
Mr K says he lost an initial £25,000 to an investment in 2018. But Mr K also spent around 
£106,000 in 2019 and 2020 falling for recovery scams, most of which his banks have 
refunded. And in this particular scam, Mr K spent approximately a further £58,000 across 
April and May 2022. Overall, I havent seen any real difference in the scams that Mr K fell 
victim to previously and this one where he was contacted by P. Mr K hasnt said or shown 
any convincing evidence to support why P was genuine given the plethora of warnings and 
advice, hed been given, about proceeding with caution with any company claiming to 
recover his lost investment funds. 
It appears that Mr K fell victim to the exact same scam twice before, with payments from a 
different bank account, in the two years prior to this one. Mr K received partial and, in some 
instances, full refunds for the payments he made. Mr K also seems to have been aware that 
he was scammed on those occasions. And was given at least some advice to be on the 
look-out for these types of scams in the future. But when P contacted him, I cant see that he 
did anything more than check Companies House to see if it was a registered business. And 
when he received the paperwork from P, he doesnt appear to have noticed the address is 
different to that on Companies House, something that he did realise after he thought hed 
been scammed. 
Given that Mr K had been scammed at least twice before, it would be reasonable for him to 
have made further checks and enquiries before deciding to part with such large sums of 
money, based on a cold call and a few invoices. In light of this, Im not persuaded Mr K had 
a reasonable basis of belief, that he was dealing with a genuine company, attempting to 
recover his investment funds. 
Did Monzo meet its standards under the CRM code?
I cant see that Monzo intervened with any of the payments that Mr K made as part of this 
scam. There is an argument that it ought to have done given the account activity, particularly 
as Mr K sets up a number of new payees making a number of payments of £5,000 and over, 
all within a few days. And in-between the payments Mr K had said he was the victim of a 
scam and then contradicted that statement thinking the initial payments had been genuine, 
when in fact they had not. However, I dont think better warnings or intervention by Monzo 
would have made a difference here and there is extensive and convincing evidence to 
support this finding. 
Mr K has fallen victim to several recovery fund scams across a number of years. At each 
juncture, he was given warnings about scammers targeting him, with promises of recovery. 
From the correspondence Mr K has provided, I can see he was advised that companies 
asking for money upfront in this way, were very likely to be a scam. That he should proceed 
with extreme caution and that he was likely to be targeted by scammers because of the 
initial investment money he lost. Mr K doesnt appear to have heeded those warnings from, 
the Police, FCA, Insolvency service, liquidators or from his other bank account providers.
Mr K had a call with his different bank account provider at the time it refunded his losses 
from a previous scam in 2020. During that call Mr K acknowledges the scam was 
sophisticated and that he would proceed with caution going forward. The bank agent says if 
ever hes unsure he can go online and check the FCA website and he can always call the bank and they can go through it with him. Mr K goes on to say If Im going to make any sort 
of payment Ill check with you. The bank agent also explains that if this sort of scam 
happens again the bank might not be in a position to refund him, but he should never think 
twice about calling the bank if he needs help.
I have also listened to the calls where Mr K is attempting a further payment as part of this 
scam (on the 11th May 2022), which is ultimately blocked by his different bank account 
provider. I can hear Mr K is frustrated that his payment has been blocked and he tells the 
bank agent that they should be working in his interests and allow him to make the payment. 
As the agent wasnt satisfied with Mr Ks responses, she explained that he would need to go 
to a branch to complete some further checks. Mr K was unhappy with this response and said 
hed transfer the money to his account held at a different bank. Which he then did by 
transferring to his other bank account and on to the scammers from there.
But I am satisfied from both Mr Ks explanation of the events, both in handling his complaints 
and when he reported the scam to Monzo and his other bank account providers  that he 
would have and did proceed with the payments regardless of the actions of Monzo (and his 
other banks). And so overall I dont think better or different intervention would have made a 
difference. Mr K was determined to make the payments, he acknowledged there was at least 
some risk in that decision and decided to go ahead regardless. Because of that I cant say 
that Monzo needs to refund Mr K. 
In his calls with his other banks, when reporting and discussing the scam, Mr K admits it was 
like taking a gamble. He said he made some of the payments because P had promised 
they were refundable, although he had no way of confirming this. And he said he always had 
the niggling doubt in the back of his mind, but he was looking at the bigger picture and what 
he was going to gain (the returns he was promised). I have also seen that Mr K reported 
some payments to P as a scam (to a different bank account provider) and then continued to 
make payments to P. So, Id go so far as to say Mr K understood the scam risk and would 
have (and did) go ahead regardless of what Monzo (and his other banks) did or said. 
Ive also thought about Mr Ks personal circumstances. In conversations with his other bank 
account providers that this has been questioned and carefully considered. And having done 
so I cant see any other reason why Mr K should receive a refund under the CRM Code. 
Recovery of funds
I can see that Monzo did make attempts to recover Mr Ks funds after he reported the scam. 
Some of those funds were recovered and this have been returned to Mr K. The investigator 
carefully considered that additional funds could have been recovered and she has rectified 
this by ensuring those funds have also been returned to Mr K.  And Im satisfied that no 
further funds could have been recovered beyond this.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman