DRN-3255423
The complaint
Mr E has complained after Chetwood Financial Limited (trading as LiveLend) defaulted his 
loan account he held with them. He has disputed that he owed money on the account and 
says that he has been provided with inaccurate information. 
What happened
Mr E says that in January 2020 he got into financial difficulty. He wasnt able to make his 
monthly loan repayment. LiveLend say they agreed to defer it until the end of the term, 
providing Mr E could make the next three payments. 
Whilst Mr E made the monthly repayment in February, his employment was impacted by the 
pandemic in March 2020 and he couldnt make that repayment. LiveLend say they agreed to 
defer this repayment too, on the basis that the next three repayments were made. 
Unfortunately, Mr E wasnt able to make any payment into the account in April or May. He 
was recorded as wanting to avoid a default. LiveLend agreed to a token payment then but 
they said they would need a payment in June. 
Mr E says he borrowed money from family to clear the debt after checking his outstanding 
balance on 23 June. He says he got confirmation that he had closed the loan account after 
paying what was owed. 
However, at the end of June 2020, Mr E received a default notice for an outstanding 
balance. He complained to LiveLend saying that this wasnt correct and he had paid what 
was owed. 
LiveLend said that the outstanding balance was less the June repayment, which was in the 
process of being taken by direct debit. They said that this wasnt made, which left an amount 
outstanding and is the reason for the default notice being sent. 
Mr E remained unhappy and so he brought his complaint to our service for an independent 
review. Our Investigator looked into it and she didnt think LiveLend had done anything 
wrong. She said the default had been applied correctly following missed payments in 
January, March, April, May and June. She said she could understand Mr Es confusion but 
that the June repayment ultimately failed after 23 June, and so there was still an amount 
owing. 
Mr E didnt agree with this. He said that LiveLend should have ensured the information was 
correct on screen, including any payments not completed. He also feels he was misled as it 
was a settlement amount and so this could be a reduced figure and so should be honoured. 
He said in a further follow up that the direct debit had failed some time before the account 
was paid up and that LiveLend had almost two weeks to ensure the information was 
accurate. As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I do empathise with the situation Mr E finds himself in. He had made it clear he 
wanted to do all he could to avoid a default on the account. He had borrowed the money 
from family that he thought would ensure this wouldnt happen, and paid what he read to be 
the outstanding balance on the account. 
However, I am satisfied that there was ultimately an amount owing. The June 2020 direct 
debit of £233 was in the process of being collected, when Mr E logged in to his account 
online to pay the outstanding balance. I think it is fair that this was not included in the figure 
provided. However, the direct debit failed shortly after, meaning an amount fell back into the 
account (less £101 which Mr E had overpaid to the account in June). 
Mr E has disputed the dates given. However, the loan account statement shows the account 
being paid up on 23 June 2020. Mr E has also provided a screenshot that says the payment 
was received on 23 June. I am satisfied based on this that this is the date more likely to be 
when Mr E paid the outstanding balance. This would coincide with the direct debit being 
collected, but ultimately not being completed. I would also say that even if the payment was 
made some time after the failed direct debit, the amount would still be owing. 
The onus and responsibility to ensure the account remains up to date is on Mr E. Whilst I 
appreciate it was frustrating, I dont believe LiveLend have done anything wrong. The figure 
they presented was correct on the facts as they knew at the time. After the direct debit failed, 
the amount owing was also correct and it was for Mr E to pay that to bring his account up to 
date. 
Mr E feels that he paid a settlement amount that he was told would close the account. He 
thinks LiveLend should honour this even if it is less than what is contractually owed. 
However, I dont agree with this. It was an outstanding balance. And LiveLend are required 
to report factually on what is paid back. I think the default notice was fair and correct and I 
dont think LiveLend need to do anything further. 
In summary, the information provided by LiveLend was correct at that time. After the direct 
debit failed, there was an amount outstanding and the default notice has been given fairly. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman