DRN-3222223
The complaint
Ms S complains about Admiral Insurance Company Limited and the payment they took from 
her account despite her cancelling the agreement within the time limit they specified.
What happened
Ms S took out a car insurance policy with Admiral, which included a telematics box. But Ms S 
decided to cancel this policy within the agreed cooling off period. So, Admiral sent Ms S 
cancellation documents on 5 June 2021, explaining she had 10 days to return the telematics 
box before a payment would be taken.
Ms S returned this box and it was received by Admiral on 11 June. But Admiral applied for 
the first policy payment of £50 on 8 June, which was taken the following day. Ms S was 
unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Ms S was unhappy that Admiral had taken the payment, despite telling her she had 10 days 
to return the telematics box which shed complied with. So, she wanted this payment to be 
refunded to her as soon as possible as well as compensation for the upset this caused. 
Admiral responded on 14 June, upholding the complaint. They agreed the payment had 
been taken in error and refunding the £50 to Ms S account, which was processed on 13 
June. They also applied 8% interest to this refund for the time Ms S was without the funds 
and offered Ms S £50 compensation to recognise any upset shed been caused. 
But in August 2021, Ms S made Admiral aware her mortgage had been refused due to a 
missed payment with another business, who Ill refer to as P. And Ms S explained this 
payment was only missed due to the £50 Admiral took in error in June. So, she wanted 
Admiral to arrange for this to be removed.
Admiral explained they couldnt remove the marker as they werent the business who placed 
it on Ms S credit file. But they provided Ms S with a letter explaining to P that they did take 
the payment erroneously, so P could consider this and remove the marker. And they paid Ms 
S another £50 to recognise the additional upset shed been caused.. They also invited Ms S 
to provide them with documentation from the lender providing her mortgage, who Ill refer to 
as H, stating it was that marker that led to the mortgage declinature for them to consider. 
Ms S remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised Admiral didnt 
dispute they had taken the payment in error. So, she was satisfied Admiral acted unfairly. 
But she thought Admirals offer of £100 plus a refund of the payment plus interest was a fair 
one. While she recognised Ms S credit file was impacted by a missed payment marker, she 
explained Admiral were unable to remove this as it was applied by P. And she thought 
Admiral had done all they could to persuade P to remove this when they sent P a letter 
confirming theyd made an error. 
Our investigator also noted that the property Ms S intended to purchase had been taken off 
the market by the seller, so she didnt think Ms S had lost the opportunity to purchase it or 
suffered a direct financial loss. So, she didnt think Admiral needed to do anything more on 
this occasion.
Ms S didnt agree. She explained her and her partner still intended to purchase a property 
and thought the missed payment marker would still impact their ability to obtain a mortgage. 
She provided a letter from H which she felt confirmed this. And Ms S also referred to letters 
from her MP where he agreed Admiral were ultimately responsible for the situation she 
found herself in. So, she maintained the marker should be removed by Admiral. As Ms S 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms S. I appreciate Ms S 
wasnt expecting Admiral to take a payment from her account. And because of this, she 
assumed her account would have the funds to meet her contractual payment with P. When 
Ms S realised her payment to P had failed, and this was because she didnt have the 
sufficient funds, I can understand why she holds Admiral ultimately responsible for the 
events that followed.
And Ive seen evidence that shows H removed their mortgage offer due to information 
reported to Ms S credit file after the initial offer had been provided. So, I think its reasonable 
to assume this referred to the missed payment marker placed by P. And I fully understand 
how worrying and upsetting this wouldve been for Ms S at the time, even though I 
understand the property she was purchasing was removed from the market by the seller.
Admiral have accepted they made an error when taking the payment. So, I dont intend to 
discuss this any further. Instead, Ive thought about what Admiral should do to recognise this 
error and put things right.
Ms S thinks Admiral should remove the missed payment marker applied to her credit file. But 
this isnt something Admiral are able to do, as it was P who applied the marker. So, only P 
can remove it.
But what I would expect Admiral to do is provide P, or Ms S, documentation confirming their 
error so this can be considered by P when they thought about whether the marker should be 
removed. And I can see Admiral have done this. I think this shows Admiral acting fairly and 
reasonably when trying to resolve Ms S situation and I dont think they couldve done 
anything more here.
So, Ive then thought about the offer Admiral have made and whether it adequately 
addressed the upset and financial loss Ms S has incurred.
Admiral have confirmed they refunded the £50 payment into Ms S account on 13 June. And 
8% interest was applied to this to recognise the number of days Ms S was without these 
funds. Admiral have also offered Ms S a further £100 to recognise the upset shes been 
caused.
Ms S doesnt think this offer is fair, as it doesnt factor in the additional £18,000 her and her partner would need to find as a deposit as they were no longer able to receive a lower 
percentage deposit mortgage. But Ms S has also confirmed the seller of the property they 
intended to buy pulled out of the sale.
So, Ms S was never in a position of needing to find an additional £18,000 nor did she spend 
this. And Im unable to consider prospective financial losses when thinking about what 
Admiral should do. So, I dont think Admiral should cover this cost. 
And although I recognise Ms S has said she still intends to purchase a property; Ive seen no 
evidence to show a new mortgage offer for a new property has been impacted by the missed 
payment marker. I appreciate H has said it impacted the offer for the property they intended 
to buy. But Ms S hasnt shown shes intending to use that offer to purchase another property. 
Because of this, Ms S isnt tied in to using H as her mortgage provided.
So, because of the above, I think the offer Admiral has made is a fair one and in line with 
what I wouldve directed had it not already been made. I think it adequately addresses Ms S 
actual financial loss and the time she was without the funds. And I think the £100 adequately 
recognises the upset their error caused her, while also taking into consideration they arent 
the business who applied the missed payment marker and the fact Ms S wasnt able to 
purchase the property the mortgage offer was intended for. So, I dont think Admiral need to 
do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms S was hoping for. And I recognise it doesnt fall in line 
with the advice and opinion shes received from her local MP. But I want to reassure Ms S 
the decision Ive reached has been made in line with our services approach, considering all 
of the evidence and comments provided by all parties. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms S complaint about Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman