DRN-2041203
 
The complaint
Mr Gs representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by Phoenix Life Limited (formerly Abbey Life 
Assurance Company Limited) simply referred to as the business. 
The CMC says:
The plan invested in a combination of funds that are medium to high risk, yet Mr Gs 
profile is recorded as a balanced attitude to risk.
No alternatives were discussed with Mr G.
The charges under the policy were not explained.
 
What happened
In November 1993, Mr G was advised invest in the Abbey Life Money Maker plan  a 10-
year savings plan  initially with a £50 monthly contribution (for the first five years) increasing 
to £75 a month. The funds were invested equally between the managed fund and the 
international fund.
 
It was recorded that:
Mr G had £3,000 invested in shares and £5,000 in savings at the time. 
He had a balanced attitude to risk. 
His objective was capital growth as he wanted to save up for his daughters wedding.
At the time he was living with his wife and stepson and was employed in his 
stepsons business. 
 
The plan matured in 2003. In total Mr G contributed £8,100 but received £7,212.94. The 
business didnt uphold the complaint. 
 
In summary, the business said:
The recommendation met Mr Gs objective. 
Whilst its concedes that other savings products werent discussed, Mr G raised no 
issues upon maturity when he received the funds. 
Although 50% of Mr Gs money was invested in the international fund, the fund 
wasnt considered high risk at the time.
The associated charges wouldve been made clear in the product literature. 
 One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Although he cant say what was (and wasnt discussed at the time) having read 
through the product documents hes satisfied the charges were made reasonably 
clear. 
Mr G had a net disposable income of £700, savings of £5,000 and an investment of 
£3,000 in shares so was willing to take some risk with his money. 
The international fund was categorised as adventurous and was probably too high 
risk for Mr G to invest in. 
Theres no explanation as to why the fund was recommended and it didnt match Mr 
Gs attitude to risk as assessed by the business.
Consequently, the overall investment was too high risk, so was unsuitable.
 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions, for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says Im not 
persuaded that the recommendation was suitable for Mr G in the circumstances.   
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by the CMC and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
At the time it was recorded Mr G was in his 40s and employed (working for his step-sons 
business). He had a net monthly income of £700, with £5,000 held in savings and £3,000 
invested in shares. On the face of it Im satisfied that he was in a reasonable position to 
invest and take some risk with his money in order to achieve his objective for capital growth.
I note his attitude to risk in respect of the investment was recorded as balanced, but his 
money was invested equally between the managed fund (which is a balanced fund) and the 
international fund (which is an adventurous fund). I note the business says that an 
adventurous fund wasnt a high-risk fund at the time (in 1993) even if it is now. But whatever 
it was, it was rated as a higher risk investment than a balanced risk investment even by the 
business own assessment and yet Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr G had any flair for adventure. In other words, Ive seen no justification for investing any part of his money in 
anything higher than a balanced risk fund. 
Its fair to say that certain questions were asked of Mr G to arrive at the conclusion that he 
was a balanced risk investor, out of three options of cautious, balanced and adventurous. 
I note balanced risk was described as including a broad spread of investments, good 
prospects for capital growth in the long term. And cautious risk as offers steady and 
dependable long term growth with a limited degree of unit price fluctuation..   
So, in the circumstances I think its unlikely Mr G wasnt willing to take some risk with his 
investment, as I dont think he was risk averse. However, in the circumstances Im not 
persuaded that  as a balanced risk investor  he was willing to invest in an adventurous 
fund, even though its likely that he was aware that there were no guarantees and that he 
could get back less than he would put in. And Im not persuaded that he wouldve done so, 
rather than invest in a balanced risk fund, if he was aware of the risks involved. 
Whilst its not necessarily for me to risk rate Mr G or the investment, Im considering whether 
the recommendation was suitable in the circumstances. And in this instance, I think the 
recommendation to invest in the adventurous fund was more risk than he wouldve been 
prepared to take with his money  even with the monthly contributions  to achieve his 
objective of saving to pay for his daughters wedding. Im therefore of the opinion that the 
recommendation  a single savings plan with 50% invested in the adventurous fund  was 
overall unsuitable for Mr G. 
In the circumstances I think the balanced benchmark is a suitable benchmark for redress. In 
my opinion the benchmark is suitable for someone willing to take some risk with their money 
but not a high risk. 
 
Putting things right
 
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr G 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Mr G would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr G's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
 
What should Phoenix Life Limited do?
 
To compensate Mr G fairly Phoenix Life Limited should:
 Compare the performance of Mr G's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. Phoenix Life Limited should also pay interest as set out below.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr G in a clear, simple format. 
 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
 
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Money Maker maturedFTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Indexdate of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
 
Actual value
 
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
 
Fair value
 
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
 
Why is this remedy suitable?
 
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
 
Mr G wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr G's circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
 
Further information
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can 
be found by following this link: 
https://www.financialombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolvingcomplaint/understanding-
compensation/compensation-investment-complaints. Alternatively, just type compensation 
for investment complaints into the search bar on our website: www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Phoenix Life Limited should calculated the redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman