DRN-4147003
The complaint
Mr M complains American International Group UK Limited (AIG) unfairly declined his claim 
under his Tech Pack insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
In May 2023, Mr M made a claim for his lost AirPods
AIG declined the claim as it said since August 2022 it no longer covered loss for 
gadgets 
Mr M said he was not made aware of the terms of the policy changing
AIG said this policy is part of a packaged bank account and the bank were 
responsible for communicating the changes to its customers that held a tech pack 
and tech pack life policy as per the terms and conditions
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said AIG had fairly declined the 
claim in line with the terms and conditions and it wasnt responsible for 
communicating the changes to the policy
Mr M disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me, an Ombudsman, to 
make a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy and I can see under the section, What is 
NOT Covered: 
1. 
2. 
3.Loss of Gadgets, You will not be covered for loss for any gadget.  
Im therefore satisfied AIG have declined the claim fairly in line with the terms of the policy.
I understand Mr M says he wasnt made aware of the changes to the policy. Ive looked to 
see which party is responsible for keeping the customer up to date of significant changes. 
Under the terms and conditions there is a section called Keeping each other informed it 
says:
We need you to tell us about changes to your situation or personal details, and well 
keep you informed about certain things that affect you. Information will only be sent 
to you, the Pack holder 
There is also a section called Changes we can make to this agreement it says;
Sometimes well want or need to change things, such as charges or terms of our 
agreement. For most changes, well tell you in advance, but we dont always need to 
do this. We review the Packs from time to time and may make changes to them, 
including the benefits and services included in a Pack or the providers of these or the 
monthly Pack fee. We may also make changes to the terms on which each benefit is 
provided (such as changes to the terms of an individual policy). Well give you 30 
calendar days notice before any changes apply.
We us and our is defined in the conditions, as the bank, or the banks insurance services 
company and it isnt anyone else unless stated. Im therefore persuaded that it wasnt AIGs 
responsibility to communicate the changes to Mr M. 
In summary, Im satisfied that AIG hasnt made an error in declining the claim and it wasnt 
responsible for communicating the changes to the policy that occurred in August 2022. So, I 
wont be asking it to do anything further on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman