DRN-4174098
The complaint
Miss B complains that Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market irresponsibly lent to her. 
She says she couldnt afford the loan repayments as she had other debts which showed she 
was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Quid Market lent Miss B four instalment loans between May 2021 and July 2022. All the 
loans have been repaid. The details of Miss Bs loans are as follows;
Loan 
number Loan dateLoan 
amount (£) TermRepayment 
(£) End date
1 17/05/2021 300 3 months 137.36 30/07/2021
2 18/08/2021 400 3 months 129.88 31/12/2021
3 13/01/2022 400 5 months 133.56 31/05/2022
4 26/07/2022 400 6 months 133.32 31/01/2023
Miss B complained to Quid Market but it didnt uphold her complaint about any of the loans 
and so she referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman where it was looked at by 
one of our adjudicators.
Our adjudicator didnt think Quid Market was wrong to lend any of the loans, she said Quid 
Markets checks went far enough and they showed Miss B could afford the loans. Miss B 
disagreed, she said her borrowing was repetitive which showed signs of financial difficulty 
and that although Quid Market requested her payslips, it didnt verify her outgoings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Quid Market needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner  without the need to borrow further or 
suffering financial detriment as a result of the loan repayments. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable or harmful.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Miss B completed loan applications for each of her loans where she declared her income 
and expenses including credit commitments. I can see that for loans 2  4 Quid Market 
verified Miss Bs income through her payslips and obtained a screenshot of her income 
deposit into her bank account for loan 1. Quid Market also searched Miss Bs credit file 
before lending each of the loans.
For loan 1, Miss Bs income which was verified through her bank account screenshot was 
£1,772. Miss B declared her living costs including credit commitments as £530 but Quid 
Market worked out her living costs including credit commitments was £610, more than 
Miss B declared. This would have left with sufficient disposable income to afford the monthly 
repayments of £137.36 for this loan.
Quid Markets search into Miss Bs credit file for this loan shows that she had some historic 
defaults mostly from 2019 with the most recent in March 2020, about a year before this loan. 
I dont think based on those defaults Quid Market should have automatically declined 
Miss Bs application. Quid Market verified her income with screenshots of her bank account 
receipt, the credit check also showed Miss B had a few active accounts which were mostly 
revolving credit accounts and were largely up to date with repayments, Miss B also had 
some loans most of which had small repayments amounts. Overall, the picture didnt 
suggest Miss B was dependent on credit or in financial difficulties at the time.
At the time of loan 2, Miss Bs income and credit search were similar to loan 1, the number 
of defaulted accounts had reduced. Miss B declared her living costs and credit commitments 
as £550 but Quid Market works it out to be £900, again more than Miss B declared. There 
was nothing to suggest Miss B would struggle to repay £129.88 for this loan over its three-
month term.
For loan 3, Miss Bs income was similar to her previous loans but had increased to £1,918 
for loan 4. Miss B declared her living costs as £655 but Quid Market worked out she paid 
£1,028 towards her living costs and credit commitments for loan 3. For loan 4 she declared 
£616 and Quid Market worked out she paid £1,022 towards her living costs and credit 
commitments.
Again, for both these loans, Quid Market used higher figures than Miss B declared and her 
credit profile didnt suggest reliance on credit for either loan. Based on these checks Miss B 
could afford the repayments of £133.56 and £133.32 for loans 3 and 4.Overall, I think Quid Markets checks were reasonable in the circumstances, it verified Miss 
Bs income through her payslips and used the results of its credit search to understand and 
verify her credit commitments. Those checks for all the loans showed Miss B could afford the 
loan repayments.
So, while I understand Miss Bs strength of feeling that she shouldnt have been given the 
loans, Quid Markets reasonable checks at the time of each loan didnt suggest she was 
dependent on short term credit or that shed struggle to repay the loans. I dont think it was 
wrong to lend any of the loans in those circumstances.
 
My final decision
For the reasons give above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman