DRN-4101365
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax (Halifax) made errors when 
setting up a new one-year fixed ISA.
What happened
Mr M had a one-year fixed ISA which had a balance of £6,106 in November 2022. He asked 
Halifax to transfer £93,000 from another ISA provider A (an instant access account) to the 
Halifax one-year fixed account at a rate of 3.4% per annum. But - Halifax asked for 
£195,641.44 (the full balance with provider A) and this was credited to the one-year fixed 
account on 29 November 2022. Provider A closed Mr Ms account. 
Its not in dispute here that Halifax made an error and shouldve requested that only £93,000 
was transferred.
Mr M complained that he only wanted £93,000 transferred and not £195,641.44. His funds 
were therefore tied up on a one-year fixed product and he couldnt access them. He wanted 
to use the instant access funds which shouldve remained with provider A (approx. 
£100,000) as he wanted to buy a property for approx. £160,000  which came onto the 
market in March 2023. Mr M said he didnt understand Halifaxs final response and therefore 
couldnt agree to it or take action on it.
Mr M argued that he lost out on the property purchase. He wants compensation for the loss 
of the opportunity of buying the property.
Halifax apologised for what happened. They accepted they made an error in requesting the 
larger sum of £195,641.44 to be transferred to them. On 3 February 2023, they offered Mr M 
two options:
- Open a new ISA with provider A and ask them to submit a partial ISA transfer request for 
the additional funds.
- Open a new ISA with new provider and ask them to submit a partial ISA transfer request for 
the additional funds.
In both cases, Halifax said Mr Ms funds would be moved from the one-year fixed account to 
an instant access account with Halifax  so no early redemption penalty was applied when 
the transfer was made. Halifax said Mr M would still get the one-year fixed rate of 3.40% on 
the funds of £100,000.00. Halifax also offered compensation of £150.
Mr M didnt accept Halifaxs offer and brought his complaint to us. He said he was confused 
by the offer. Our investigator said Halifaxs offer was a reasonable one and upheld the 
complaint - saying the compensation of £150 should be paid.
Mr M didnt accept this and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has 
come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that during our investigation, Mr M has raised complaints about other service 
issues at Halifax on other dates  which our investigator correctly said should be the subject 
of a new complaint - and Mr M has put his points to Halifax separately for them to respond 
to. So, I set that aside and this decision deals with the ISA transfer  which is the complaint 
Mr M referred to us.
It's not in dispute that Halifax made an error and should have arranged the transfer of 
£93,000 and not £195,641.44. Halifax have admitted that  and so the crux of this complaint 
is whether Halifaxs offer to settle Mr Ms complaint is a fair one. And I think it is.
I looked at Halifaxs final response dated 3 February 2023  it said:
(In order to keep your ISA wrapper on your funds), the following options are available to 
you:
- Open a new ISA with (provider A) and ask them to submit a partial ISA transfer request 
(previous years subscriptions) for the additional funds we hold in your ISA
- Open a new ISA with another provider and as above, ask them to submit a partial ISA 
transfer request for the additional funds held in your ISA.
On both these options, I will need to place your funds onto our variable rate so that no 
penalty is applied when a transfer request is received. Once the additional funds have been 
transferred to another provider, an interest adjustment will need to be applied to your 
account before maturity, to ensure you receive a rate of 3.40% on your funds of 
£100,000.00.
The guiding principle of our service is that when a mistake occurs, a consumer is put back in 
the position they wouldve been in had it not occurred. And I think Halifaxs offer did that  it 
gave Mr M the options to put his money back into an instant access ISA  either with 
provider A or a new one, and without any penalty for taking money out of the fixed rate 
account early. And the offer ensured he still got the interest rate on the £100,000 he wanted 
to put with Halifax.
Mr M said he was confused by the offer  but for me, I think its reasonable to say it was 
clear and not misleading. He didnt take any action on it  and he told us that he then 
transferred all the Halifax funds to another new provider (B) on 20 March 2023. But provider 
B wouldnt allow any withdrawals for 14 days from that time.
Mr M says he couldnt buy the property he wanted to in March 2023 because of what 
happened. He showed us the sales information for the property  asking price £160,000  
and he told us it went on the market in the second week of March 2023 and was sold on 20 
March 2023. We asked Mr M for evidence that he couldnt buy the property because he 
didnt have the access to the money. But unfortunately he couldnt provide that. And Ive 
seen that he told us he was to have a second viewing of the property on 21 March 2023  
but it had been sold the day before. So  Im not persuaded that Halifax can be held 
responsible for Mr M not buying the house.
Ive also noted that Halifaxs offer to put things right was dated 3 February 2023 - Ive 
already said that I consider the offer to be a fair one. If Mr M had accepted it, he wouldve 
been able to withdraw the instant access money by the time he needed it, in March 2023. But - Mr M chose not to accept the offer. I cant reasonably hold Halifax responsible for that.
Mr M chose to transfer the funds from Halifax to provider B on 20 March 2023  and then 
couldnt access those funds for 14 days. I cant reasonably hold Halifax responsible for the 
terms of provider B. And I also note that he opened the account with provider B on 20 March 
2023  by which time the property was already sold.
Mr M has gone on to argue that compensation of £150 wasnt enough for what happened. 
This is in addition to the offer Halifax made to put things right  in terms of the funds 
transfers.
Mr M says hes suffered a lot of stress and anxiety  which I accept. He was dealing with the 
transfer of a lot of money and Halifaxs mistake must have caused him a lot of worry and 
concern. Ive considered this. 
Our service has set out some criteria for assessing compensation payments. We say that 
where a large single mistake (as was the case here), requires a reasonable effort to sort out 
and where the businesss actions could have resulted in some acute stress lasting hours at 
the lower end  or a have had a milder impact across a few days, or even weeks  then a 
payment of up to £300 is appropriate. I consider that what happened fits this definition, and 
that £150 is right.
I know Mr M will be disappointed by this  and he has put his case to us in detail and at 
length, for which we are grateful  but Im satisfied that Halifaxs offer is appropriate.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman