DRN-3073520
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the service received from HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding the US 
dollar account he holds with them, including that he wasnt able to get in touch with HSBC to 
effect a currency transfer which Mr L feels has resulted in him incurring a financial loss. 
What happened
In February 2020, Mr L wanted to convert approximately $70,000 held in his HSBC US 
Dollar current account into Sterling. However, when Mr L tried to contact HSBC by telephone 
to instruct the currency conversion, he was unable to get through, despite being on hold for a 
considerable time. 
Mr L wasnt happy about this, and he also wasnt happy when he later discovered that his 
US Dollar account had been suspended by HSBC because of inactivity and that HSBC had 
changed their operating processes such that cash withdrawals could no longer be made 
directly from the US Dollar account. So, Mr L raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mr Ls complaint, but they noted that Mr L had attempted to contact them 
during a time when the emerging Covid-19 pandemic had meant that they were operating 
with reduced staff members, and that this had contributed to Mr L not being able to get 
through on the telephone when hed called. 
HSBC also noted that theyd sent an notice to Mr L in advance of the cash withdrawal facility 
being removed from his account advising him as such, and also that the terms of the US 
Dollar account included that the account may considered as being dormant and suspended if 
the account remains unused for a set period of time. 
However, HSBC did acknowledge that a later telephone call that Mr L had made, in August 
2020, had been dropped and that Mr L hadnt been called back, and so they apologised to 
Mr L for this and made a payment of £250 to Mr L to compensate him for the inconvenience 
hed incurred.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the response that HSBC had 
already issued to Mr L, including the payment of £250 compensation, already represented a 
fair and reasonable resolution to what had taken place, and so they didnt uphold this 
complaint.
Mr L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr L to have tried to telephone HSBC 
two separate times in order to instruct the transfer of funds held in his US Dollar account but 
to have been unable to get through, despite holding for a considerable period on both 
occasions.
Mr L has stated that he doesnt feel that HSBCs explanation of why this was the case  that 
HSBC were operating with reduced staff numbers as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, 
which was emerging globally at that time  as constituting a valid reason as to why his calls 
werent answered by HSBC.
However, I dont share Mr Ls sentiment on this point, and I consider that the impact that 
Covid-19 has on business at that time, including staff shortages and government mandated 
changes in working practices, do present a reasonable and understandable explanation as 
to why Mr Ls calls to HSBC werent answered in a timely manner. 
Indeed, given that Mr L was on hold with HSBC on both occasions  meaning that his calls 
had been connected and that he was waiting for a HSBC agent to become available  I feel 
that this supports the view that HSBC were physically unable to answer Mr Ls calls sooner 
at those times, for the reasons previously stated.
It also must be noted that other means of instructing the transfer were available to Mr L, 
including via internet banking. I note that Mr L, in a communication with HSBC about this 
matter, stated that he doesnt want to use internet banking, but this doesnt alter the fact that 
the option of internet banking existed and that it provided Mr L with an alternative means of 
effecting the currency conversion, albeit one which Mr L chose not to use.
As such, I find it difficult to conclude that Mr L has lost out financially because HSBC didnt 
answer the telephone calls that Mr L made to them in February 2020 in a reasonable time. 
And I say this not only because I dont feel that it was unreasonable for HSBC to have 
struggled to answer telephone calls in a timely manner at that time, as previously mentioned, 
but also because, if Mr L had wanted to take advantage of the currency exchange rate 
available to him at that time, I feel that there were other means of instructing the currency 
conversion available to Mr L which he elected not to use.
Mr L is also unhappy that HSBC withdrew the facility to withdraw cash from the US Dollar 
account. However, its up to HSBC if they wish to change what services are available to 
customers on an account. What this service would expect would be that HSBC would notify 
their customers in advance of any changes that they intend make in regard to services 
available on an account, so that affected customers can make alternative arrangements, 
should they wish to do so. 
HSBC appear to have done that here, and I say this because theyve been able to 
demonstrate that they sent a notice to Mr L in May 2020, advising him that from June 2020, 
he would no longer be able to withdraw cash form his US Dollar account in branch. Its 
notable that Mr L sent a copy of this notice as part of his initial submission to this service, 
and so Im satisfied that it was received by Mr L and that he had the opportunity to act on it 
had he wanted to do so. 
Mr L has also expressed his dissatisfaction that HSBC classified his US Dollar account as 
being dormant and suspended it without notifying him, and that HSBC continued to charge 
fees on the account when it was classified as being dormant. 
Its not unusual for the terms and conditions of a current account to include that the account 
may be classified as being dormant if it isnt used for a set period of time, or that this 
classification would mean that the account would be suspended. And having reviewed the terms and conditions for the HSBC Dollar account I can confirm that such a clause is 
included in those terms and can be found under the heading What happens if you dont use 
your account.
The clause in question includes that HSBC would notify a customer that their account has 
been classified as being dormant, but Mr L contends that this didnt take place on this 
occasion. Ive reviewed the information provided to this service by HSBC, and this doesnt 
appear to include any record of a notice being sent to Mr L advising him that his account had 
been suspended, or was due to be suspended, on the grounds of it being dormant.
However, while I do feel that HSBC should have provided a notice to Mr L that his account 
was being suspended, I dont feel that HSBC not providing this notice has led to any tangible 
detriment in this instance, and I say this because Mr L discovered that the account was 
dormant in August 2020, which was at a time when Mr L himself has confirmed he wasnt 
intending to instruct a transfer out of the US Dollar account to a UK Sterling account 
because of the unfavourable nature of the exchange rate at that time.
As such, while I can appreciate Mr Ls frustration that he wasnt notified that his account was 
suspended, Im satisfied that HSBC have been able to rectify this matter without any 
financial detriment being incurred by Mr L as a result, and I dont feel that any further 
instruction of compensation to Mr L is warranted in this instance because of this.
Additionally, Im also satisfied that it is reasonable for HSBC to have continued to have 
applied charges to the account while it remained in a state of dormancy, and this is because 
the account wasnt closed during that time, but was merely dormant such that some 
administration continued and such that the account could have been reactivated to full status 
by Mr L at any time.
Finally, Im aware that Mr L is displeased that HSBC sent communications to the email 
address that he had registered with them and feels that HSBC should have communicated 
with him by post. However, its up to HSBC to decide how they wish to communicate with a 
customer, and while I accept that Mr L may have preferred to be contacted by letter, 
communication by email remains a valid channel, especially when a customer has an email 
registered with HSBC, as Mr L did in this instance. 
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that HSBC have acted unreasonably or 
unfairly towards Mr L here such that any further action is required by HSBC above and 
beyond the responses to Mr Ls complaint that they have already issued. And it follows from 
this that my final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
HSBC to take further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr L was wanting, but I hope that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman