DRN-3380123
The complaint
Mr G complains Bank of Scotland plc wont reimburse money he lost when he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr G was cold called out of the blue with an investment opportunity with 
Xraderfx. He was given a trading manager who would carry out trades on his behalf, he 
wasnt allowed to trade himself. He found the trader friendly and convincing and was told 
they were regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Mr G was given access to a 
website, which he thought looked legitimate and he was required to provide identification 
documents before any trading could begin.
Mr G started with an investment of £300 on 18 October 2018. This payment was made to 
Finproduct trade. Two further payments, of £5,000 were made to this party on 22 October 
and 24 October 2018. These were part of Xtraderfx trades. Finally, a payment of £3,000 was 
made directly to Xtraderfx on 20 November 2018.
Mr G saw that his trades were doing well, and so he asked to make withdrawals. But these 
were sidestepped or delayed. And then his trading manager stopped responding to him. 
Subsequently he was unable to log onto the website anymore and all further communication 
stopped. Mr G did some research and contacted a busines which looked into scams. It was 
then he discovered he had been scammed.
He raised a chargeback request. Bank of Scotland raised this for him, but the merchant 
provided evidence in its defence. So Bank of Scotland raised the chargeback to the pre- 
arbitration stage. But that also didnt succeed and he was told the bank couldnt help him any 
further. Mr G did, however, receive his final payment back.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She was satisfied that the third payment ought to 
have triggered the banks fraud prevention systems and had it intervened the scam would 
have unravelled. She also thought the bank then would have been able to help chargeback 
the initial transactions. So she upheld the complaint and required a refund of all the 
transactions, bar the final one and 8% simple interest.
Bank of Scotland disagreed. It doesnt think Mr G met the standard of care expected when 
making the payments, it didnt think the payment was unusual and said Mr G is a high- 
volume user of his debit card, including online purchases. It said its not unusual for Mr G to 
make high-value transactions on this account and the first disputed transaction was lower 
than other spending and once that was made, the other payments would be considered less 
risky.
The bank also doesnt consider Mr Gs acceptance of guarantees his funds wouldnt be at 
risk and would get great profits, without independent advice, to be reasonable. This type of 
trading is high-risk; that Mr G was told this was risk free goes against not only the general 
nature of investing but also this type of trading. It says the investigators position relies upon 
a knowledge that the parties Mr G paid were involved in fraud, which it couldnt have known 
at the time.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view and so the matter was referred for a 
final decision. Whilst awaiting allocation to an ombudsman, the investigator revised her 
findings in relation to the first and second transaction, which Mr G accepted.
I issued my provisional decision on 13 March 2022, explaining why I was minded to uphold it 
but require a refund of an additional payment. I also found any interest to be applied to the 
award should be at the savings account rate rather than 8%. 
Both parties have let me know they accept the findings in my provisional decision. I therefore 
see no reason to alter my findings and make them final, below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Mr G authorised the transactions in question; he made the 
payments using his debit card and associated security credentials. Whilst he didnt intend to 
get scammed, he is initially presumed liable for the loss.
Bank of Scotland is well aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring 
accounts to counter various risks; have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or 
other indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud and, in some situations, made 
additional checks before processing payments, or decline them altogether to protect 
customers from possible financial harm from fraud. The investigator set this out more fully in 
her view, and I dont consider it necessary to repeat that here.
For the same reasons as set out by the investigator, Im satisfied Mr G has been the victim 
of a scam. There was a warning about this specific trader on the FCAs website from 6 July 
2018  it was operating in the UK without being authorised when it ought to have been, 
which is a criminal offence.
I have considered the transactions Mr G made in relation to this scam. And I dont find the 
first payment of £300 was unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, even though it was to 
a new payee. However, I find the second payment was. £5,000 is not an insignificant sum, 
and Mr G rarely spent over £1,000 in any single transaction in the 12 months prior to this, 
and when he did, they were transfers to his own account with another part of the same 
banking group. Whilst this was a second payment to the same merchant, this was still 
nevertheless a new payee, with him only having paid it a small sum just four days prior. This 
was such a significant increase in spending for the account, that Im satisfied it ought to have 
triggered the banks systems and lead to the payment being paused, pending further 
intervention  such as making enquiries, or giving a scam warning.
Had the bank carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mr G about the payment, 
Ive no reason to doubt he would have explained what he was doing. Whilst I accept the 
bank had no duty to protect him from a poor investment choice, or give investment advice, it 
could have provided information about the steps a customer can take to ensure as far as is 
reasonably possible, that they are dealing with a legitimate person  such as checking the 
payee/trader was authorised with the FCA. And it could have drawn on its knowledge and
information that was in the public domain (as referenced by the investigator) about the high 
risk associated with trading and the potential for fraud and provided with Mr G with a potential scam warning. Im particularly mindful Mr G was cold called out of the blue, typical 
behaviour for a scammer but not for a legitimate investment opportunity.
I havent seen any evidence that the bank intervened. Had it done so, Im satisfied Mr G 
would have looked further into the investment type in general, whether the trader was 
regulated here or abroad and noted the various warnings about trading scams. Indeed, a 
simple suggestion to check the trader was authorised for himself, would likely have led to Mr 
G discovering the FCA warning for himself and the realisation hed been lied to. Im satisfied 
a warning from the bank would likely have exposed the scam, and caused Mr G to stop 
trading, thereby preventing further losses.
I have considered whether Mr G ought to bear some responsibility for the situation in which 
he found himself. I do accept the banks point that trading in commodities or currency is 
inherently risky and as such the investment itself and good returns cant be guaranteed. But 
Im not aware that Mr G had investment experience such that he ought to have been dubious 
about what he was being told. Im therefore not currently minded to find that Mr G foresaw or 
ought to have foreseen the risk of being scammed, such that it would be fair to reduce 
compensation accordingly.
Mr G has already received £3,000 of his losses back through the chargeback process. And 
Im not going to ask the bank to refund his first transaction for the reasons given above. But I 
am going to ask it to refund the two middle transactions of £5,000 each. I have noted that the 
money was transferred in from another account, and Mr G described this money as his 
savings. I therefore assume the account the money came from was a savings account and 
so any interest added to the loss should be at the savings account rate and not 8%.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Bank of Scotland plc to:
Reimburse £10,000 to Mr G, representing the losses he incurred; and
It should add interest at the rate applied to Mr Gs savings account, from the 
date of the transactions to the date of settlement, less any lawfully deductible 
tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman