DRN-3858536
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) declined his claim 
for double-glazing damage under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2022, Mr S made a claim to Admiral under his home insurance policy. He reported 
that an inner pane of a double-glazing door unit at his home had spontaneously cracked. 
Admirals loss adjustor inspected the damage in July 2022 and said it would carry out the 
repairs in August 2022. Admiral then cancelled the repair, however Mr S said that Admiral 
didnt explain why. Mr S contacted Admiral and it said that thermal expansion was excluded 
from Mr Ss insurance cover. Mr S complained to Admiral however it maintained its decision 
to decline cover, and then cited a gradual causes exclusion as a reason for decline.
Mr S then referred his complaint to our service. The relevant investigator upheld Mr Ss 
complaint. He concluded that the damage claimed for by Mr S met the policy definition of 
unexpected accidental breakage of fitted glass in windows. Mr S has explained that hed 
arranged for the damage to be repaired and it was his view that Admiral should pay Mr S the 
cost of repair of the damage together with interest at 8% simple.
Admiral didnt agree with the investigators decision and the matter has been referred to me 
to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine in this case is whether Admiral acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner in its interpretation of Mr Ss home insurance policy and in declining his 
claim. I dont consider that it did act in a fair and reasonable manner, and Ill explain why. In 
reaching my decision, Ive also considered the parties submissions summarised as follows.
Mr S said that on the day when the double-glazing pane cracked, the weather was very 
bright and hot. He said that the door in question was of high quality. Having reported the 
cracking to Admiral, Mr S was contacted a few days later by a glazing company which had 
been instructed by Admiral. Mr S said the glazing company was very helpful, and when he 
described the damage, they assured him that this was a common incident for which they 
undertook insurance work. They arranged for an engineer to visit in July 2022 and to provide 
a report for the insurers and they confirmed a date for repair in early August 2022. Mr S said 
that the company then called a few days later to report that Admiral had cancelled the repair. 
He said they were unable to tell him why and were as surprised as I was!. 
Mr S called Admiral and was informed that as the engineers report had referenced thermal 
expansion as the cause of damage, where a pane of glass can be caused to press against a 
metal pin holding the window frame in place. Admiral said that this was excluded from cover. 
Mr S believed that the exclusion which Admiral relied on was to do with ground movement or 
subsidence and not damage to glass. Admiral said it that as it was mentioned in the policy 
booklet, it could be applied to all contexts. Mr S considered this to be absurd. He considered 
it notable that the formal response from Admirals complaints department took a different 
tack and referenced damage which takes place gradually. Mr S considered that expansion 
of glass could happen in a matter of minutes and not in the gradual timeframe of dry rot, 
mildew and rust. He suggested that Admiral were trying to evade upholding their end of their 
own contract to save money. 
Finally, Mr S said that Admiral informed him that regardless of the outcome of this process, 
his premium would go up next year and that this would also apply to all other providers 
because it goes on my record as a claim. Mr S also felt that hed had to spend a significant 
amount of time in dealing with the matter and it had caused him anger and frustration. 
Turning to what Admiral has said about the matter in its final response letter, it 
acknowledged Mr Ss dissatisfaction. It nevertheless said that it could see no errors in the 
service received by him. It referred to an exception in the policy regarding gradual causes 
and said that the policy didnt cover damage caused by sunlight or atmospheric conditions. 
In response to the investigators view, Admiral considered that it was clear as per the 
inspection that this case was wear and tear issue that the glass spontaneously breaks must 
have been that of thermal movement/expansion... It didnt think that there was any other 
reason why glass would simply break on its own. 
Admirals case notes indicated that Mr S initially referred to the damage occurring due to 
temperature changes rather than accidental damage. The report from the glazing company 
which it instructed stated Damage has been caused due to thermal expansion where a 
double-glazed unit located in a timber bi fold door has shattered and will require a 
replacement. The cost for the double-glazed unit replacement is £500.54 + VAT.
The starting point for my consideration of this complaint is the policy booklet and the 
definitions and terms and conditions contained in it. Ive noted the provisions referenced by 
Admiral. However, I consider that the provision which describes what has happened in this 
instance, is under the heading What is covered and which refers to Accidental Breakage. 
This is clearly included in the cover described in Mr Ss policy schedule and is defined in the 
policy booklet as Sudden, unexpected and visible breakage which has not been caused 
deliberately. The policy also states clearly that it covers: Accidental breakage of glass to 
include Fitted glass in windows, doors. There are specific exclusions in the section 
relating to breakage of glass, and none of these refer to thermal movement. 
As to Admirals application of the exclusion of Gradual causes, Im satisfied that the wording 
does not apply to the circumstances which occurred in this case. The cause of damage as 
confirmed by the glazing company appointed by Admiral was thermal expansion in fitted 
glass. On the balance of probabilities this wasnt something which took place gradually. Im 
persuaded by Mr Ss evidence that this was a rapid cracking incident, which hadnt been 
present the day before the incident. As to Thermal movement, this appears in the policy 
document as an exclusion against the heading of Buildings accidental damage in the 
context of ground subsidence, heave, and landslip. This comes just after the section 
regarding Accidental breakage of glass These are therefore clearly shown as separate 
concepts. In addition, Admirals argument that damage occurred due to wear and tear does 
not match the report of the glazing company experts which it appointed. It identified thermal 
expansion as being the cause and this doesnt equate to gradual wear and tear. I therefore 
agree with the relevant investigator that what has occurred here is more in line with the 
concept of accidental breakage of glass. In view of the wording of the policy, it would be 
unfair and unreasonable for Admiral to rely on the exclusions which it has cited. I note that Mr S has stated that hes obtained a repair quote from the original door 
manufacturer which he said that, in comparison with Admirals appointed glazing company, 
was cheaper than their own people would have done it. In the circumstances, Im satisfied 
that Admiral should reimburse Mr S for the cost of the repair works, following submission of 
an invoice for the cost and up to the level of reserve which it set aside for its appointed 
glazing company, together with interest. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ss claim against Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited and require it to do the following: - 
- to pay Mr S the cost of repairs to his door minus any excess amount, within 28 days of his 
acceptance of any Final Decision and following provision by Mr S of a receipt or invoice for 
the cost of repairs.
- to pay interest on the cost of repairs, calculated from the date Mr S paid this amount to the 
date of settlement, at 8% a year simple interest*
*If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman