DRN-1831176
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision to void his income 
protection insurance policy after he made a claim under it. Aviva voided the policy because it 
believed Mr C had made misrepresentations when he took out the policy.
What happened
On 11 July 2010, Mr C applied to take out an income protection insurance policy with Aviva. 
The policy was designed to pay a regular benefit in the event that Mr C was unable to 
perform his occupation due to illness or injury. As part of the application, he had to complete 
a questionnaire relating to his medical history.
Aviva accepted the application and the policy began on 1 August 2011.
In 2019, Mr C made a claim under the policy. He said that he had been diagnosed with 
chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) in 2014 and had been unable to perform his occupation on 
a full-time basis since then.
After obtaining medical evidence, Aviva noted that Mr C had experienced certain symptoms 
before taking out the policy which it considered he should have disclosed in response to the 
questions he was asked at the time of application. It said if he had answered the questions 
correctly, it would have resulted in it not offering him the policy. On this basis, it said it was 
voiding the policy, thus meaning his claim would not be paid, and refunding his premiums.
Mr C complained to Aviva but it wouldnt change its decision. Mr C therefore referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied 
that Aviva had acted fairly.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators decision. He said he had tried to answer the questions 
honestly and accurately. Although at the time of his application hed been experiencing 
tiredness along with aches and pains, hed understood this was simply due to having a 
young child and working long hours which was why he hadnt mentioned it. He provided a 
letter from his GP confirming that he hadnt been referred to a specialist for his fatigue 
symptoms until 2013 and was only diagnosed with CFS in 2014. He pointed out that he had 
disclosed chest pain and yet this hadnt prevented Aviva from offering him cover. He 
therefore considered that Aviva had unfairly used the non-disclosure of what he had 
assumed were insignificant symptoms as an excuse to get out of paying his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When he applied for the policy in July 2011, Mr C was asked a series of questions about his 
health. These included the following:
Have you ever had persistent or recurrent malaise/tiredness, ME, Post-viral fatigue or 
chronic fatigue syndrome?
In the last 5 years, have you had back pain, a slipped disc, sciatica, neck or shoulder pain?
 
In the last 5 years have you had any joint pain (for example knee/hip pain), rheumatic, 
arthritic or muscular complaints (including repetitive strain, neuralgia or fibromyalgia)?
Are you waiting to undergo any medical consultation, test, investigation or surgery or are 
you waiting for the results of any test or investigation?
Have you in the last year consulted a medical practitioner about your health or wellbeing? 
(including GP's, occupational health, osteopaths, physiotherapists, clinics etc).
Im satisfied that these questions are clear.
Mr C answered no to the first four questions. He answered yes to the fifth question, 
though he went on to explain that the only such consultation was in relation to his medication 
for a gastric condition.
The medical records show that Mr C attended his GP in August 2010 complaining of joint 
pains in his knees, hips and lower back, and also of generally feeling tired. He was referred 
for X-rays at that time.
The medical records further show that in July 2011, the day after completing his application, 
Mr C attended his GP complaining of feeling run down over the previous two or three weeks. 
His GP commented that Mr Cs lethargy was due to post-viral fatigue. 
I consider that Mr C answered the above questions wrongly. I consider he should have 
answered yes to each of the questions and disclosed the GP consultation in August 2010 
as well as the consultation he had planned for the following day.
Mr C says that he had forgotten about the August 2010 consultation and that he hadnt 
considered his symptoms in July 2011 to be significant. This may be the case but it doesnt 
alter the fact that he answered the questions wrongly. The questions about tiredness, back 
pain and joint pain are clear. Mr C was obliged to answer them accurately. It is up to Aviva to 
decide what importance to place on the information which Mr C provided. I recognise that 
Mr C was not eventually diagnosed with CFS until 2014 but the questions ask about 
symptoms as well as diagnosed conditions.
Aviva has explained that if Mr C had answered the questions correctly, it would have led to it 
discovering the various symptoms he had experienced, and indeed was experiencing at the 
time of his application. Its senior underwriter has confirmed to us that this would have 
caused it not to offer him cover at that time but instead to postpone the application by twelve 
months.
Aviva has further noted that over the following twelve months, Mr C continued to report to his 
GP that he was suffering from joint pain, lower back pain and tiredness. Its senior 
underwriter has confirmed to us that, because Mr Cs symptoms had not resolved by twelve 
months later, it still would have refused at that time to offer him cover.
Mr C has questioned whether this truly represents the action Aviva would have taken, 
pointing out that his disclosed chest pain apparently caused it no concern. However, it is up 
to Aviva to decide which risks it wants to accept when it offers its policies and it is best placed to determine what particular factors are likely to increase the chances of an income 
protection claim. I see no reason to doubt the evidence provided by Aviva and its 
underwriter.   
Overall, Im satisfied from the evidence that Mr C didnt correctly answer the questions he 
was asked at application. And Im satisfied that if he had answered the questions correctly, it 
would have resulted in Aviva not offering him cover. I therefore consider it was fair for Aviva 
to void his policy and thus cause his claim to fail. Aviva considers that Mr Cs failure to 
answer the questions correctly was due to him being careless rather than reckless or 
deliberate, and I agree with that assessment. It therefore agreed to refund his premiums and 
I consider that was fair.
While I sympathise with Mr C who is sadly facing health issues that affect his ability to 
perform his occupation on a full-time basis, I consider that Aviva has done nothing wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman