DRN-4010517
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Skipton Building Society (Skipton) will not allow them to rent 
their Buy-to-Let property to members of their extended family. They say that there is no 
restriction in the terms of their Buy-to-Let mortgage offer with Skipton which stops them 
doing this.
What happened
In 2019, Mr and Mrs P took out a Buy-to-Let mortgage on a property with Skipton and in 
2022 they remortgaged the property with Skipton. On both applications they received a 
formal offer which contained a number of conditions, including a list of Property Letting 
Requirements which they had to agree to as part of the Mortgage contract. In March 2022, 
Mr and Mrs P contacted Skipton and asked if they were able to rent their property out to 
family members. At this point Mr and Mrs P had no immediate desire to rent to family 
members but the opportunity might arise, so they wanted to clarify their position. They 
specifically asked if it would be possible to let the property to their nieces. Skipton declined 
and said that this was against its internal lending conditions. Mr and Mrs P complained that 
this wasnt made clear anywhere in the Mortgage Offer and that it was unfair for Skipton to 
impose such a restriction after the Mortgage had completed. Skipton said it had a duty to 
protect its security and was able to vary the lending requirements on Buy-to-Let Mortgages. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree and so brought the complaint to us.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the case. She said that Skipton was entitled to rely on its own 
internal policies and further she didnt think the family restriction was unfair.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree and so the complaint has been brought to me for a final decision
My Provisional Decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two broad aspects to this complaint. Firstly, whether or not Skipton can place 
restrictions on the letting of a Buy-to-Let property that arent specifically itemised in the 
Mortgage Offer it provides to its Buy-to-Let customers. And, secondly, the understanding of 
the definition of a family member for the purpose of a Buy-to-Let Mortgage.
Skipton says its entitled to place restrictions and rules for those properties secured under its 
mortgage charge to protect its security. It further says that if it received a new application for
a Buy-to-Let Mortgage involving a let to a family member this would be rejected under its 
lending criteria. So, it says that in order to treat all customers fairly, it also doesnt allow 
family lets to existing Buy-to-Let customers.
When Mr and Mrs P completed the original mortgage application they were asked if any 
member of their family would be living in the property. Mr and Mrs P confirmed that no 
member of their family would be living there so Skipton proceeded with the application on 
that basis.
Mr and Mrs P have stated the possibility they would rent to family members is hypothetical 
and in this complaint are simply seeking to clarify their ability to do so. So, Im satisfied that 
when the Mortgage was applied for, and when the Mortgage Offer was issued, there was no 
immediate intention or desire to rent the property to a family member. Skipton completed the 
applications based upon the information given and issued a Buy-to-Let Mortgage Offer.
Ive looked at both Mortgage Offers Mr and Mrs P received. Both contain, as a condition of 
the mortgage, a defined list of Property Letting Requirements. The list is extensive yet 
makes no reference to family members being excluded. It also clearly states:
Provided the Societys Property Letting Requirements are met, you are given the consent to 
the letting of the Property for the purpose of the Mortgage Conditions
So, given the clarity of the letting restrictions in the Mortgage Offer  and the absence of any 
restriction to family letting - I dont think theres any contractual basis Skipton can rely upon 
to refuse Mr and Mrs P permission to let their property to a family member.
But there are also regulatory restrictions here.
A mortgage must be a regulated residential mortgage if the property is used as a residence 
by the borrower or a related person. In the regulations contained in the FCA Handbook, a 
definition of related person is given.  And for the purpose of this decision, Im considering 
the term family and related person to have the same implication.
The relevant regulation is detailed below.
Under the Regulated Activities Order  related person means:
(a) that person's spouse or civil partner.
(b) a person (whether or not of the opposite sex) whose relationship with that person has the 
characteristics of the relationship between husband and wife; or
(c) that person's parent, brother, sister, child, grandparent or grandchild.
I think its reasonable that Skipton wouldnt allow Mr and Mrs P to rent the property to 
anyone who meets that definition as that requires a regulated residential mortgage not a 
Buy-to-Let mortgage which is the subject of this complaint. But given what Ive said about 
the regulations and about the terms of the mortgage offer (including the Property Letting 
Requirements), I cant see any basis on which it can fairly restrict letting to a member of Mr 
and Mrs Ps wider family who falls outside the relationships set out above.
If Skipton want to impose a restriction on letting to wider family members, then it seems 
appropriate that it includes it in the list of Property Letting Requirements provided in its Buy-
to-Let Mortgage Offer.
Mr and Mrs P say they should be compensated for the distress and inconvenience theyve 
been put through because of this complaint.
In this case Ive been asked to make a judgement on a hypothetical situation rather than an 
actual event, and Ive seen no evidence of any financial loss suffered by Mr and Mrs P 
resulting from this complaint.Further, given the hypothetical nature of this complaint and the evidence Ive seen, I cant 
find that it stopped them renting out their property to non-family members or otherwise 
caused them material inconvenience or distress.
So, I dont think any award for distress and inconvenience, on the evidence Ive seen, is 
warranted.
My Provisional Decision
For the reasons set out above Im minded to uphold this complaint
Skipton should allow Mr and Mrs P to rent their Buy-to Let property to members of their 
extended family for the duration of their current mortgage.
All other terms and conditions of the mortgage offer should be complied with.
The Responses to my Provisional Decision
Skipton responded to my Provisional Decision by saying that it states on its website that 
properties cannot be let to family members. And it also said that its internal policies stated 
that family members as tenants were not allowed. It asked me to reconsider the decision 
based upon this information.
Mr and Mrs P responded by acknowledging the Provisional Decision to allow them to rent 
their property to extended family beyond the regulatory definition of a relative. But they 
asked to be compensated for what they say are financial and non-financial losses incurred 
by not being allowed to rent to their nieces when they originally wanted to.
Mr and Mrs P say that while the original query on their ability to rent to their nieces was 
initially hypothetical, it became a reality in May 2022 when their property became vacant. 
They say they delayed renting their property until August 2022 as they were hoping and 
expecting the refusal to rent to their nieces to be overturned. They decided to rent the 
property to another tenant in August 2022 as they could no longer afford to forego the rental 
income. The three-month delay in renting their property incurred costs in terms of lost rental 
income and council tax payments. Furthermore, they say that the cost of employing an 
estate agent to source and manage a new, unknown, tenant was additional to what would 
have been the case if theyd immediately been allowed to rent to their nieces. The total 
financial costs incurred are around £3,900. They also say they should be compensated for 
the distress and inconvenience they and their nieces have been put through by Skipton.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the website information Skipton sent relating to Buy-to-Let mortgages and it 
doesnt go into specific detail about tenancy restrictions  instead it invites customers to 
speak to its specialist team to discuss the customers needs.
Skipton also sent links to its Consent to Let criteria. This section defines Consent to Let 
as obtaining permission for you to let your own residential property on a temporary basis, 
usually for twelve months or less. It does go on to state that family lets are prohibited but as 
Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage isnt residential, I dont agree that the restriction necessarily 
follows to their non-residential Buy-to-Let mortgage. Skipton also point to their internal lending policy. This does state that family lets arent 
allowed but apart from not defining the definition of a family member, this restriction isnt 
contained within the mortgage offer itself and so I cant agree that Skipton can rely on a 
restriction which isnt clearly visible or defined to a customer.
In summary, I havent seen anything in Skiptons response which persuades me to change 
the conclusions detailed in my Provisional Decision.
Ive also thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Ps request for compensation for the financial 
loss they feel theyve suffered. 
The losses were incurred because of Mr and Mrs Ps decision to delay renting their property 
for around three months. But at no time were they prohibited from renting the property to 
other tenants and, if they had, they would not have forgone the monthly rental income or had 
to cover the council tax payments. By Mr and Mrs Ps own calculations this would have 
saved them incurring £2,994.58 of costs.
Mr and Mrs P also say they incurred additional costs of estate agency fees to source, and 
then manage, the new tenancy. These costs were a single payment of £577 and £63.60 per 
month on an ongoing basis. But its not essential that Mr and Mrs P involve an estate agent 
when renting their Buy-to-Let property. Indeed, they state they would have managed their 
nieces tenancy themselves. So, I dont think I can fairly say that these are costs incurred by 
Mr and Mrs P that they couldnt have avoided.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs P wanted to rent their property to their nieces. The rental 
process appears to have been simpler and financially beneficial. And they would also have 
been helping their nieces. 
But in considering their submissions Im minded that a Buy-to-Let mortgage is essentially an 
investment vehicle. Its purpose is for a lender to provide funding for a property from which a 
customer derives financial returns from the rental income and, potentially, the increase in 
property value over time. The lender should allow the customer to rent the property within 
the terms of the mortgage offer but I dont think I can reasonably say the lender is 
responsible for the customers choice of the relative financial (and non-financial) benefits of 
differing tenancy options.
In summary, the losses Mr and Mrs P say they incurred could have been avoided by them 
taking alternative decisions about how to manage their Buy-to-Let mortgage. And so, I dont 
think its reasonable for me to ask Skipton to pay them.
Mr and Mrs P have also asked for compensation for the stress and inconvenience this has 
caused them and their nieces. For the same reason of being able to take alternative 
decisions which would have avoided the financial strain, I dont think its fair for me to ask 
Skipton to make any payment for that aspect of the stress Mr and Mrs P say they suffered.
I do appreciate that it will have been stressful not being able to be clear with their nieces 
whether theyd be able to rent the property, but I think this stress was directly related to their 
particular choice of tenant (a relation) and their desire to help them. And as detailed above, I 
dont think this is something Skipton should be held responsible for. 
Finally, as Mr and Mrs Ps nieces arent party to the mortgage, Im not able to consider any 
distress and inconvenience payment for them as part of this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint
Skipton should allow Mr and Mrs P to rent their Buy-to Let property to members of their 
extended family (who fall outside the regulatory definition of related person Ive quoted 
above) for the duration of their current mortgage.
All other terms and conditions of the mortgage offer should be complied with.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Ben Castell
Ombudsman