DRN-2974388
The complaint
The estate of Mrs H are unhappy U K Insurance Limited (UKI) partly declined a claim which 
was made under her home insurance policy.
What happened
There was an ingress of water to the insured property which caused damage. A claim was 
made to UKI, the insurer of the property.
UKI accepted the damage caused to the contents items and internal cosmetic damage and 
a cash settlement was ultimately paid. During repair works internally, there was a problem 
with the wooden lintel discovered and this was reported to UKI. 
Following an inspection, UKI declined to cover the cost of repairing the lintel or the external 
damage. They said the damage was caused gradually by wear and tear, and faulty 
workmanship, which is excluded under the policy.
As the estate of Mrs H were unhappy, they approached the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. She said it wasnt 
unreasonable for UKI to partially decline the claim. She said the evidence showed the 
damage externally and to the lintel had been caused gradually, and it was poorly fitted and 
didnt support the brickwork above, rather than being damaged by a one-off insured event. 
She said whilst there was cover under the policy for accidental damage more generally, the 
exclusion for gradual damage and faulty workmanship would apply. So she didnt ask UKI to 
do anything further.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, an ombudsman was asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The internal cosmetic damage and damage to contents items was accepted by UKI and 
covered, so I wont comment on that part of the claim for damage further. Here Im deciding 
whether it was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for UKI to decline the external 
damage and damage to the lintel, for the reasons it has done so.
The insurance policy here isnt designed to cover every eventuality or damage that could 
happen to the insured property. Instead it covers specific one-off events, such as a storm, 
flood or fire. The policy also covers the broader event of accidental damage. But whilst it 
does cover those specific events, there are also exclusions under the policy which mean a 
claim still wouldnt be covered if an exclusion applied.
After UKI accepted the internal cosmetic damage and damage to contents items, repair 
works were started. During this it was identified there was a problem with the wooden lintel. 
This was reported to UKI.
An inspection was carried out by UKI who concluded the damage had been caused 
gradually over time, and due to faulty workmanship, rather than as a result of a one-off 
insured event. UKI say this isnt covered under the policy. 
Ive seen a copy of the inspection report completed. This noted the external sill and 
brickwork was cracked and concluded this was due to the defective and rotten wooden 
lintels which had caused the brickwork to drop, and had likely been ongoing for many years. 
They noted that historic previous repairs had been attempted to the defective brickwork in 
the area over the years.  And they also said the beam wasnt sufficiently supported when the 
property was built. 
UKI said given the noticeable and visible cracks to the sill externally, this wouldve been 
allowing water to enter the property over a long period of time and caused damage to the 
wooden lintel inside. Damage caused by water ingress over time isnt an insured event itself, 
and they also said there was no evidence of a one-off single event of storm damage, or any 
other specific insured event under the policy, which had occurred which wouldve caused 
that damage. 
UKI declined this part of the claim based on the following in the policy terms, that applies to 
the whole policy, which says they dont cover:
Wear and tear
Any damage caused gradually
Loss or damage as a result of the lack of maintenance and/or routine decoration
Faulty workmanship, faulty design or the use of faulty materials
Having considered the report provided, and photographs, Im persuaded by the conclusions 
reached during the inspection around the cause of damage. Im satisfied theyve shown the 
damage was most likely caused gradually over time, by wear and tear and as a result of 
faulty workmanship, rather than by another specific one-off insured event.
The estate of Mrs H has said the damage was caused accidentally, so they think UKI should 
cover the cost of the repairs. UKI did consider the damage under accidental damage, in the 
absence of another specific one-off insured event. But the exclusion for gradual damage, 
wear and tear and faulty workmanship, applies to all sections of the policy  including 
accidental damage.
Having taken everything into account, Im persuaded by the conclusions UKI reached about 
the cause of damage. So, as this isnt covered under the policy, I dont think UKI have acted 
unfairly by declining this part of the claim on that basis.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman