DRN-2979029
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society took too long sending him a replacement 
bank card. And he needed to go into branch on two occasions. 
I am aware Mr W has another complaint with our service about the blocking of his account 
and that will be dealt with separately.
What happened
Mr W had an account with Nationwide.
On 10 August 2019 Mr W was unable to use his card at a local store, so he called 
Nationwide. Nationwide said Mr W needed to go into branch to get access to his account. 
Mr W called back later that day and reported the card as lost. Nationwide told Mr W he 
would need to go to a branch in order to verify his identity. 
On 12 August 2019 Mr W went into branch with his ID to order a new bank card. Mr W says 
he spoke to the bank manager who said he ordered him a card. Nationwide have said that 
because of restrictions on the account at the time a new card couldnt be ordered.
A week later the card hadnt arrived, so Mr W called Nationwide. They said the card hadnt 
been ordered and Mr W would need to go back into branch to order a new card. 
The restriction on the account was lifted on 16 August 2019. Mr W went into branch on 
22 August and ordered a new card. Mr W then received the new card.
Mr W was unhappy that he had to make two trips into branch in order to get his card. 
Because of his arthritis Mr W had to take two taxis to get into branch. He thinks he neednt 
have been out of pocket for the second taxi if Nationwide had ordered the card on 
12 August 2019 when they said they would.
Mr W complained to Nationwide. Nationwide said the correct action had been taken and they 
hadnt told Mr W that a card had been ordered for him when he attended branch on 
12 August.
Unhappy with the response Mr W complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She said she didnt think that Nationwide 
had done anything wrong. Because the account restrictions needed to be lifted before the 
new card was ordered.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators view and said the reason why he went into branch 
was to order a new card. He is unhappy they didnt tell him why the account was blocked 
when he phoned Nationwide and he doesnt understand why he had to go into branch when 
this is an online account. Mr W thinks Nationwide are not telling the truth about what was 
said.
As Mr W disagreed with the view the decision came to me. Having looked at the evidence 
and listened to the calls I was not satisfied that we were dealing with an eligible complainant. 
I wasnt satisfied the person bringing the complaint was Mr W. Because of this and since 
Mr W hadnt appointed a representative, I thought we werent able to look at the complaint. I 
requested more information from both parties, but the information provided didnt convince 
me that Mr W was the one bringing the complaint to our service. So, I issued a Jurisdiction 
decision saying that as a service we couldnt deal with the complaint as we didnt have an 
eligible complainant.
Following this decision Mr W contacted our service, we were able to speak to him and his 
son and Mr W gave permission for his son to represent him.
Following the conversation and the representative being appointed in this case. I have 
looked at the information again.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Can we look at Mr Ws complaint
In my original provisional and Jurisdiction decisions, I said I didnt think this complaint was 
one our rules allow the Financial Ombudsman Service to look at. On the evidence available 
to me at the time I was not satisfied that the person referring the complaint to us was a 
customer of the Nationwide. 
As I mentioned in my decision Mr W has a son. Following on from my Jurisdiction decision 
Mr W and his son contacted the service.  I have listened to that call with our service in which 
Mr W has given permission for his son to represent him in this complaint. I am satisfied that 
the person giving permission is Mr W and not anyone impersonating him.  Because of this I 
am satisfied that the person bringing this complaint to us is Mr W and that he is an eligible 
complainant as he is the customer of Nationwide. I am also satisfied that he is willing to 
nominate his son as his representative and he is aware that his son (Who I will refer to as A) 
is representing him.
So, having reviewed the new evidence before me I am persuaded to re-open the complaint 
and consider the merits of the case.
Ordering of Mr Ws card
As I am now able to consider the merits of the case, I have considered all the evidence 
provided to us regarding the original complaint. Based on what Ive seen I dont think that 
Nationwide have done anything wrong and I wont be asking them to do anything further.
I appreciate that Mr W is unhappy he had to travel into branch twice and he said he was told 
on his first visit that a card would be ordered for him. Nationwide have said they didnt. Ive 
seen a copy of branch notes from the day Mr W visited the branch and there is no evidence 
to show that he was told his card was being ordered .Based on the notes Im satisfied that 
Mr W wasnt told Nationwide had ordered a card for him.
Mr W has told us he had mobility issues, and this made it difficult to go into branch, but I can 
see that Nationwide werent made aware of these issues. So, I cant say they did anything 
wrong in asking him to go into branch.I have also listened to calls on 10 August 2019 between Mr W and Nationwide when Mr W 
phoned them because his card had been declined at a supermarket.  I am satisfied that Mr 
W was told he needed to visit branch with ID documents in order to resolve the account 
restrictions and that they couldnt discuss any restrictions with Mr W or give him any 
information over the phone. Mr W had previously told Nationwide that someone else was 
accessing his online banking and he also mentioned that he wasnt confident in using online 
banking.  Because of this Nationwide restricted his account for his own security. 
On the call Mr W said he was embarrassed at the supermarket and Nationwide should have 
warned him that they had blocked his account. Nationwide also confirmed what type of ID 
Mr W would need to present in branch. He was told he could contact the branch to see if 
there was any other way of unblocking the account.
I appreciate Mr W was told in a phone call on 11 August that he needed to go into branch to 
order a card, but calls on 10 August which I have listened to confirm that he needed to go 
into branch to unblock the account. So, Im satisfied that Mr W was told that the account 
needed to be unblocked in branch. 
I have seen notes from Nationwide showing that Mr W was able to confirm on his visit to 
branch that the online transactions were made or authorised by him, and that he had asked 
his son to impersonate him as he didnt want to speak to Nationwide. Mr W was advised not 
to do this. 
I can also see that Nationwide staff confirmed with Mr W that online banking restrictions 
wouldnt be removed until he viewed the videos on Nationwides website that explain how 
online banking works. I have seen from the case notes that Nationwide were still not clear on 
some occasions about who they were speaking to on the phone.
In a phone call on 16 August Mr W was told that online restrictions would continue because 
he had told branch staff, he wasnt confident in using the online banking but other restrictions 
on the account would be removed.  From listening to the call, I am sure that the person 
speaking to Nationwide on 16 August was A and not Mr W and A was not fully aware about 
the conversation that Mr W had had in branch on the 12 August.
Because of concerns that someone else had access to his account and was calling the bank 
impersonating Mr W, Nationwide had to ensure they were dealing with their customer and 
protecting their money from possible fraud.
Following the visit in branch with his ID the specialist fraud team conducted a review and 
Mr Ws account restrictions were lifted on 16 August and Mr W was then able to order the 
new card. 
We asked Nationwide why they were not able to order a card for Mr W when he went into 
branch on 12 August. Nationwide have confirmed that at the time the account was still 
blocked and so a new card couldnt be ordered.
I appreciate that Mr W had to make two trips into branch, and he has told us he has mobility 
problems and this made it difficult to go into branch, but I can see that Nationwide werent 
made aware of these issues. So, I cant say they did anything wrong in asking him to go into 
branch.
I appreciate Mr W was inconvenienced in having to go into branch and he has said that the 
account was an online account but I would expect Nationwide to require Mr W to attend branch in person to be satisfied that they were dealing with the customer and not someone 
impersonating him  so I dont think they have done anything wrong.
I realise A has been trying to help Mr W deal with his account but the bank have processes 
in place they must follow to ensure the protection of their customers money and make sure 
they are dealing with their customer. A could have prevented the inconvenience that was 
caused by asking Mr W to let Nationwide know that A would be speaking on his behalf and 
helping him with transactions.
I appreciate this isnt the answer that Mr W would have wanted, but I cant say fairly that 
Nationwide have done anything wrong.  
So subject to any further representations by Mr W and Nationwide I was minded not to 
uphold the complaint
Responses to my provisional decision
Nationwide have said they have nothing further to add my provisional decision.
Mr W has said that he is elderly and has difficulty walking, restricting his account meant he 
had no access to food, money and essential items for weeks. Mr W says that paying for two 
taxis to the branch put him in financial difficulties. Mr W says that Nationwide were aware of 
his age and mobility issues. He has said he ended up in hospital because of Nationwides 
actions.
Mr W has suggested that it doesnt make sense that he would travel 22 miles round trip to go 
to one branch and then not order a card and have to travel 30 miles to a different branch to 
order a new card weeks later.
Mr W says he was informed that he would need to go into branch to order a new card. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide have not provided any further comments. However, I re-considered again my 
provisional findings in the light of Mr Ws response to it. 
Mr W seems to be suggesting that Nationwide shouldnt have restricted his account because 
it left him with no access to food and essentials. I appreciate that Mr W was inconvenienced 
when his account was blocked, however it was Mr W who requested that his account be 
restricted and who told Nationwide that he was concerned that someone was accessing his 
account.  In those circumstances I think Nationwide did the right thing to protect their 
customer and put measures in place to satisfy themselves as to identity.
Mr W says Nationwide were aware of his health issues. However, the evidence Ive seen 
doesnt support this. In the calls I listened to Mr W did not disclose any difficulties to the staff 
apart from on the call of 10 August where he was concerned about not having money to buy 
food and it being Sunday the next day and A was away. If Mr W had no access to food for 
weeks, I would have expected him to mention it in his other interactions with Nationwide.
I appreciate that Mr W is unhappy he had to travel into branch twice and he has said it 
doesnt make sense that he wouldnt order a card on his first visit.  But as I mentioned in my 
provisional decision, Ive seen a copy of branch notes from the day Mr W visited the branch and there is no evidence to show that he was told his card was being ordered. So, as I said 
based on the notes, Im satisfied that Mr W wasnt told Nationwide had ordered a card for 
him.
I accept that Mr W was told he would need to go into branch to order a new card. As I 
mentioned in my provisional decision a new card could not be ordered until after the 
restrictions were lifted. Following the visit in branch with his ID the specialist fraud team 
conducted a review and Mr Ws account restrictions were lifted on 16 August. 
For all these reasons and the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, my view on what
the fair and reasonable outcome on this case is remains the same as set out in my
provisional decision
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman