DRN-3615128
The complaint
Mr F complains that Prodigy Finance LTD (Prodigy) refused to allow breathing space on
his account and were wrong to suggest they were exempt from the breathing space scheme
and wrong to continue to pursue the debt during this time. He is also unhappy that they
didnt agree to freeze interest and charges on his account when asked to by a debt charity
acting on his behalf and that they havent taken proper account of his disability. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators findings. I dont think the business were entitled
to charge interest during the breathing space and I think the compensation proposed is a
little low. I also think Prodigy should have been more proactive to try to help Mr F. Ill explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
The breathing space scheme Mr F used a fixed sum loan to finance his student fees. That 
loan is a regulated agreement and as such we are able to consider complaints about it.
The Insolvency Services guidance for creditors (Respite Relief Scheme (Breathing Space)
guidance for creditors) explains that student loans are exempt from the scheme. But that
refers to government loans and not to personal loans such as Mr Fs.
Having considered the guidance Im persuaded that Mr Fs personal loan with Prodigy was
one that qualified for breathing space and that Prodigy should therefore have provided that
respite.
Prodigy have accepted that, and they subsequently applied the relevant breathing space to
Mr Fs account.
They say the scheme allows them to charge interest on the principal during that period, but
the guidance says:
Interest can still be charged on the principal in secured debt, but not on arrears
This wasnt a secured debt so no interest should have been charged during the breathing
space and any that has been should be refunded.
I think Prodigy should also compensate Mr F for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced as a result of the mistake they made when refusing to apply the breathing
space. The investigator suggested £75 would be sufficient but I dont agree.
This is a significant loan and Prodigy had been contacted by a debt charity on Mr Fs behalf
who had also asked them to agree to payments under a debt management plan. Mr F has
provided medical evidence to explain his condition. That information suggests a second line
medication was prescribed in January 2022 after he was referred for further treatment. Mr F
has explained that Prodigys refusal to initially allow the breathing space and their insistence
on chasing the debt and threatening legal action, made his condition worse. I think, thats
likely to have been the case here as Mr F was clearly in difficulties and this indebtedness
was particularly significant. In those circumstances I think Prodigy should provide more
compensation. Having considered our guidelines on compensation for distress and
inconvenience I think £300 would be fair in the circumstances.
Financial difficulties
Having received a letter from the debt management charity, and a proposal to make
payments under a debt management plan, I think it should have been clear to Prodigy that
Mr F was experiencing financial difficulties.
Guidance for creditors on what to do in those circumstances is provided in various sources
including in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) Section 7, the Lending Standards
Boards Standards of lending Practice, and in the Finance and Leasing Associations (FLAs)
lending code.
Put simply a lender should treat a consumer in financial difficulties fairly.
Wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of their individual
circumstances and discuss what help is appropriate. Lenders should deal with cases of
financial difficulty sympathetically and positively and should do what they can to help
borrowers pay what they owe. They may then consider:
Suspending, waiving, or cancelling any further interest or charges.
Allowing arrears to be deferred where immediate payment could cause payments
to be unsustainable or where the term would not be increased excessively.
Accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow the
consumer to recover from unexpected reduction in income.
Not refusing reasonable affordable repayment proposals.
But that list isnt exhaustive.
In their emailed response to Mr F on 25 November 2021 Prodigy explained that they didnt
accept the debt management plan proposals. I cant see they explained why, but they did
refer Mr F to their collections team if he wished to discuss forbearance options.
I think Prodigy should have been more proactive than that. So, Im asking them to review
Mr Fs account in light of their knowledge of his disability (its clear theyre aware of that now,
even if they werent earlier, as theyve suggested) and his financial difficulties. Theyll need
to consider his situation sympathetically and positively and do what they can reasonably doto help Mr F pay what he owes.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Prodigy
Finance LTD to:
Pay Mr F £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ensure the account balance is recalculated to remove any interest Prodigy incorrectly
applied during the breathing space.
Review Mr Fs account with him taking into account his disability and any financial
difficulties and see what they can reasonably do to help him pay what he owes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prodigy accepted my provisional decision. They said, We could have done more
to treat this customer fairly and we have already started updating our processes to align with 
the breathing space regulations.
Mr F also agreed, and he asked for a formal apology from a senior member of staff.
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with any information that would lead me to change my provisional 
decision and I dont think Prodigy need to apologise more formally to Mr F. Theyve made it 
clear that they will now realign their processes and work with Mr F to ensure things are put 
right for him - I think that and the redress Im suggesting is sufficient.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Prodigy Finance LTD to:
Pay Mr F £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ensure the account balance is recalculated to remove any interest Prodigy incorrectly
applied during the breathing space.
Review Mr Fs account with him taking into account his disability and any financial
difficulties and see what they can reasonably do to help him pay what he owes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman