DRN-3046859
The complaint
Mr J complains that Ferratum UK Ltd lent to him irresponsibly.
Mr J also complains that Ferratum ought to have asked about his mental health when he 
applied for the loan in 2017.
Mr J says that Ferratum has been uncooperative and threatening legal proceedings rather 
than responding to him and helping him since the loan was issued.
What happened
Mr J took one loan with Ferratum on 22 August 2017. It was for £400 to be repaid over three 
monthly instalments: two payments of £202.90 and one final payment £167.29. The original 
agreement would have meant that Mr J repaid just over £573. Ferratums record shows that 
Mr J told it he was employed full time and he earned around £2,001 each month.   
After Mr J complained to Ferratum it sent him its final response email dated 22 October 
2020. The debt was over three years old by that stage. Ferratum explained that no payments 
had been received. The loan had reached the regulators interest cap which meant that the 
debt had become £800. The account had been transferred to its collection agency.  
Mr J referred his complaint to this Service and explained It is my belief that ferratum [sic] did 
not carry out enough checks when providing the loan, only a credit check was carried out, no 
questions regarding current circumstances including my mental health at the time not 
enough security checks, .So finally it is my belief I should never have been given the loan 
and if more questions and security checks were made I wouldn't not of been accepted, they 
did not ask for me which is so important if I had mental health issues they did not ask if 
I already had payday loans and did not ask what my financial situation was at the time
Mr J has added that tried constantly to agree deals with them to try and pay off this debt, 
instead of offering help they have doubled the debt and threatened court action.and have 
been unresponsive in trying to help rather choosing to threaten court action even when I'm 
not working.
Mr J does not want compensation for the anxiety and distress he says this has caused but 
he does I would like my complaint upheld and the loan and account closed with the money 
owed cleared.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Ferratum did not need to 
do anything to put things right about the loan approval as she thought Ferratum had carried 
out appropriate and proportionate checks before lending. She said that in her view, and on 
the details and information she had, she did not see how Ferratum would have known about 
Mr Js mental health issues or his other concerns, unless he had chosen to volunteer that 
information to Ferratum at the time he applied for the loan in 2017. She considered his 
request that the loan be written off but she did not think that was fair as Mr J had benefited 
from the capital sum offered and so he ought to repay it. 
So, in her view the complaint was not upheld and Mr J disagreed. He asked that it be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
I asked both parties to send to me additional information before I came to any decision. Mr J 
has sent us two pages of bank statements covering some of August 2017. 
Ferratum has added to its explanations about Mr Js non payment and sent to me copies of 
text messages sent to Mr J between August and October 2017 to invite him to contact it and 
to ask for payment. Ferratum has said that its collection agent is now pursuing Mr J for the 
debt through the Courts and it does not agree that the debt should be written off. It adds that 
it is sorry that Mr J has confirmed he has a gambling addiction and mental health issues 
but we could not have been reasonably expected to know this. 
Ferratum said that no contact was made by Mr J to it and if he had then it would have been 
able to agree a settlement and an affordable repayment plan. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Irresponsible lending
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to be satisfied Mr J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Ferratum should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But this is not applicable in Mr Js situation 
as he took one loan. Theres no pattern when its one loan. Ferratum was required to establish whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
Mr Js main concerns expressed to our adjudicator after she had sent him her opinion on the 
complaint, was that he did not think that she had investigated it enough. And he thinks that 
Ferratum ought to have done more checks including looking into his financial situation, his 
mental health and check out the other loans he had and why he had them. Mr J accepts that 
Ferratum carried out a credit check. He says that was not enough. 
This sounds like Mr J expected that a full financial review to have been carried out when he 
was a new customer to Ferratum. And this, in my view, would have been disproportionate. 
I would not have expected Ferratum, acting in line with the regulators requirements about 
responsible lending, to carry out such an in-depth review of Mr Js finances for a first loan for 
£400. 
Ferratum has told us it took information from Mr J about his employment and salary. It 
carried out a credit check and was satisfied with what that showed it. The loan was for a 
relatively modest sum and for a person on £2,001 (declared salary) a month to repay two 
lots of £202 and one repayment of £167 Ferratum decided to lend to Mr J as it did not look 
unaffordable.
Neither party has sent to us details of any credit reports or credit search results. Ferratum 
has not kept the record from 2017 which is a little surprising as 2017 is not that long ago. 
However, I have had to accept its explanation. Mr J has been asked for it twice before and 
not sent anything relating to his credit history to us.
 
Consequently, I am not able to see what it is that Ferratum discovered in August 2017 when 
it approved the loan. What I do have is some details from Mr J by looking at his bank 
statements. I would not have expected Ferratum to review his bank statements for a first 
loan and so I am using them only because it is all I have been sent in order to see what his 
other debts may have been and what it was Ferratum may have discovered from its own 
credit report. The two pages of bank statements covering a few days in August 2017 do demonstrate that 
Mr J had 
- An income of almost £2,200 a month (Mr J has said that he was off sick at the time 
but in any event he has told us that he would have received full salary)
- He had a guarantor loan for which he was repaying around £158 a month. These 
usually registered on credit reports as an unsecured loan 
- He had a type of overdraft facility on his account with a lender which offered this type 
of credit facility. The amount borrowed for those types of credit facilities usually were 
up to the borrower so long as the amount requested was within the facility credit limit. 
These usually registered on credit searches as a credit card type facility.
- He had a debt and theres a payment of £20 
Just using this information, I do not think that this leads me to think that Ferratums credit 
search would have revealed anything to cause it concern. And Mr J had a relatively good 
income to be able to repay the other credit alongside the loan he was asking Ferratum for. 
As I have explained, I have reviewed the two pages of Mr Js bank statements as this is all 
I have from both parties to try to identify what other debt Mr J says that he had at the time. 
But I would not have expected Mr Js bank statements to have been looked at by Ferratum 
for the loan 1 application. And so, it would not have seen that Mr J spent money on betting 
and gaming transactions. Unless Mr J had volunteered it, Ferratum would not have known, 
and I would not have expected it to know at that stage of the lending relationship, or at all. 
I do not uphold Mr Js complaint for irresponsible lending. 
Mental health issues 
As for Mr Js mental health issues at the time  I am sorry to hear of it. Mr J has said that he 
has recovered from the issues and that is good to hear.
Mr J has given me an idea as to what the mental health issues were but he has not sent to 
us any evidence of the issues. For something so serious, simply assertions of his mental 
state in 2017 in emails to us is not enough. Plus, theres nothing on the evidence provided 
from Ferratum for 2017 to demonstrate to me that Ferratum knew, or had reason to believe, 
that Mr J had such issues. 
For completeness, if Mr Js assertion was that he felt he had no mental capacity then the 
approach for lenders to take is regulated in the FCA CONC chapter 2.10. I am familiar with 
this set of regulations. 
CONC 2.10.4 Guidance states that the starting point is this: 
A firm should assume a customer has mental capacity at the time the decision has to 
be made, unless the firm knows, or is told by a person it reasonably believes should 
know, or reasonably suspects, that the customer lacks capacity.
And the FCA Guide lists some behavioural indicators which, if the lender observes any, may 
lead to the firm having reasonable grounds to suspect that a customer may have some form 
of mental capacity limitation. These are in CONC 2.10.8 and are a guide list.
Mr J has not provided us or Ferratum with any incidents or factual matters which he thinks 
would have led it to thinking, or given reasonable grounds for it to suspect, that he had 
mental health issues.And even if Ferratum did have any grounds, CONC 2.10.7 guidance states this does not 
necessarily mean that the customer does not have the mental capacity to make an informed 
borrowing decision.
So, unless Ferratum as a lender had reasonable cause to believe that Mr J had mental 
health issues it would not have needed to enquire further. And theres no evidence of that. 
And Ferratums starting point is set out above in paragraph CONC 2.10.4. 
Pursuit of the debt 
Mr J refers several times to the fact that Ferratum had bullied him and had not agreed to any 
of his offers to come to a deal on the debt and was now threatening Court proceedings. 
Ferratum has explained that it received no contact from Mr J despite trying and Ive seen 
texts from it to Mr J in 2017 which makes it clear that Mr J did not respond to any of them. 
Ferratums collection agent has been dealing with the debt.   
I have no evidence from Mr J about these alleged bullying tactics or the other matters. 
Ferratum says that no payments have been paid and no contact has been made. If Mr J had 
been in touch with the agent, again, Ive no evidence of any such contact. The agent would 
have been following instructions to obtain payment on a debt which is now four years old. 
So, I do not think that I can come to any conclusion that Mr J has been treated unfairly by 
Ferratum or its agent as I have no evidence from Mr J. And the evidence I do have from 
Ferratum shows me that the attempts to make contact appear to have been ignored by Mr J. 
And the correspondence with a Ferratum representative on October 2020, after Mr J had 
received the FRL, shows that she said she would inform its collection agent to place the debt 
account on hold while the complaint was at this Service. That seems fair and reasonable. 
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint. In the circumstances I have no need to 
say anything further on Mr Js request for the debt to be written off as such an outcome is 
not contemplated where the complaint about irresponsible lending has not been upheld. And 
is rarely acceded to in any event even where a complaint is upheld for irresponsible lending. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman