DRN-2111780
The complaint
Mr R complains that when he made an early settlement of a finance agreement he had with 
Hyundai Capital UK Limited, trading as Hyundai Finance (Hyundai Finance), they added 
interest that he hadnt been made aware of. He says he was mis-sold the finance agreement 
as he was told he could settle early with no penalty.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R, but I agree with the investigators view. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
the early settlement calculation
Mr R told Hyundai Finance that he disagreed with the settlement date. In an email he sent to 
them in October 2019 he said he asked for the settlement figure on 23 August 2019 and the 
regulations said that the settlement date should therefore have been 28 days later. He 
complained that Hyundai Finance had listed a settlement date of 20 October which was 58 
days after he had asked for the settlement figure and was therefore wrong.
Ive looked at the conditional sale agreement. This states at the top that it is regulated by 
The Consumer Credit Act 1974.
The Consumer Credit Act covers several areas of consumer credit including the content and 
form of credit agreements and the procedures relating to default, termination and early 
settlement. In relation to early settlement the Consumer Credit Act says that settlement 
figures should be calculated using the rules set out in the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004. It says that the settlement date becomes 28 days after receipt 
of the settlement request and it goes on to allow the creditor, if the loan is for more than one 
year, to defer the settlement date by 30 days. So that explains the 58-day charges Mr R is 
complaining about. I dont think Hyundai Finance were wrong to use 20 October 2019 as the 
settlement date and I can therefore understand why their calculation varied from Mr Rs.
the absence of specific reference to the Regulations
These early settlement rules arent explicitly referred to in the credit agreement and I 
understand Mr Rs concern. But theres a balance to be struck between defining and 
explaining each and every term of a contract and keeping a contract to a reasonable length. 
The credit agreement says, in clause 2.7, that early settlement would require repayment of 
the appropriate amount, which may include a rebate. In cases of early settlement, the word 
rebate is used because if you decide to pay off all or part of a credit agreement before the 
end of the term, you do not have to pay the full amount of interest stipulated in the 
agreement. Instead the total amount of interest which would have been payable over the 
term is reduced by a statutory rebate. I can see that this is a little confusing, but Hyundai 
Finance are using the language provided in the relevant act when they refer to rebate. So, I 
cant say theyre wrong to do so. 
mis-selling
Mr R says he was mis-sold the credit agreement as he says the dealership told him there 
would be no penalty if he settled it early. If Mr R was told something that led him to enter into 
an agreement that he would not otherwise have entered into, then I would think Hyundai 
Capital were responsible for the action of their agents in the negotiation of the contract and 
Id ask them to take some action.
Here, I dont think I have enough information to reasonable support Mr Rs assertion that he 
was told there would not be any penalties. Whilst I understand his testimony; it is disputed by 
the business. 
Ive thought about whether Mr R would have done anything differently if he had been aware 
of the early repayment provisions. The additional payment Mr R is disputing is about £200. 
Its not an insignificant figure but its a small proportion of the overall credit and, on balance, 
Im not persuaded that if Mr R had known hed be liable for this at the outset it would have 
been significant enough to persuade him not to proceed with the finance agreement. And if 
he hadnt settled early he wouldve paid significantly more interest. So, I cant say hes been 
financially disadvantaged by this situation and overall, I dont think Hyundai Finance needs 
to take any further action.
delay in the settlement date
Ive seen the email that Mr R sent on 23 August 2019 and that the business say they didnt 
receive. But Im not persuaded this delayed the receipt of the settlement figure. That was 
sent to Mr R on 28 August only a few days after he contacted them. So, I dont think theres 
evidence Mr R has been financially disadvantaged as a result of Hyundai Finance not 
receiving an email from him contesting the settlement figure.
Overall Im not persuaded that Hyundai Finance have done anything wrong here and Im not 
asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahonOmbudsman