DRN-3135512
The complaint
Mr W complains that Morses Club PLC trading as Morses Club was irresponsible in its 
lending to him.
What happened
Mr W was provided with loans by Morses Club. He has said that he was provided with loans 
before those listed below however further evidence of these hasnt been provided. 
Therefore, this decision relates to the loans set out in the table below.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 18/12/2013 18/09/2014 50 £300.00
2 18/09/2014 22/05/2015 50 £500.00
3 22/05/2015 23/03/2016 50 £500.00
4 23/03/2016 16/02/2017 52 £500.00
Mr W says the loans caused him to enter a spiral of debt. He says the checks carried out 
before they were provided werent adequate and he was told to change his expenses. 
Morses Club issued a final response letter in February 2021. It said that affordability checks 
were carried out with the agent present before each loan was provided. It didnt agree that 
the loans were irresponsibly lent given the information provided at the time.
Mr W referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt think she had enough evidence to say that loans 1 and 2 shouldnt 
have been provided but she upheld this complaint in regard to loans 3 and 4.
Morses Club didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said that it relied on the information it 
was provided with about Mr Ws financial situation and that based on this he had a 
disposable weekly income of £110 before loan 3 and £140 before loan 4 and so the loans 
were affordable. It didnt accept that having back to back loans showed financial 
dependence and said that Mr W didnt make it aware of any financial difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses Club needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr W could afford to repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment 
amounts and the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses Club should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unaffordable.
Before the loans were provided, Morses Club has explained that it carried out affordability 
checks and asked Mr W about his income and expenses. I havent seen the evidence 
supplied before loans 1 and 2 were provided and have noted the information Mr W has 
provided when raising his complaint about the loans. Noting the repayment amounts due 
under the loans compared to Mr Ws income and without further evidence I do not find I have 
enough to say that the first two loans shouldnt have been provided.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint in regard to loans 3 and 4. I note Morses Clubs 
comments about the checks it undertook and that based on these the loan repayments 
appeared affordable. However, by the time loan 3 was provided Mr W had been borrowing 
from Morses Club for around 17 months. Each loan was taken out on the day the previous 
one was repaid and while I note Morses Clubs comment about the timing I think this does 
suggest that Mr W had potentially become reliant on this type of finance. The amount he 
borrowed increased after the first loan and then remained at the same level for the 
subsequent loans. Based on this I think that Morses Club should have been concerned by 
loan 3 that Mr W was reliant on this product and that this loan, and subsequent lending, was 
unlikely to be sustainably affordable for him. Therefore I uphold this complaint in regard to 
loans 3 and 4. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses Club should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr W after loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr W may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr W would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses Clubs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans 3 and 4. Morses Club PLC 
should:
refund all interest and charges that Mr W paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
the overall pattern of lending means any information recorded about loans 3 and 4 is 
adverse. So, all entries about these loans should be removed from Mr W's credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses Club to take off tax from this interest. Morses 
Club must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. Morses Club PLC should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman