DRN-4331079
The complaint
Mr E complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted unfairly by defaulting his account and 
reporting it to the Credit Reference Agencies. 
What happened
Mr E held a loan account with Lloyds. Under the terms of the loan agreement, he was 
required to make monthly repayments. Mr E missed a payment in January 2022. He 
contacted Lloyds at the beginning of February. Lloyds agreed to put a hold on the loan 
account for 30 days and stop charging him interest until his situation improved.
Mr E missed the February payment but resumed monthly payments from March 2022 
onwards. However, the account was in arrears because the January and February payments 
remained outstanding. Lloyds wrote to Mr E several times about the arrears in the period 
from January to March 2022. It asked him to make a payment to bring the account up to date 
or get in touch. But the arrears remained outstanding and no payment plan was agreed. 
Lloyds sent Mr E a Default Notice at the end of March 2022. The Default Notice required him 
to pay off the arrears by 16 April 2022. 
Mr E didnt clear the arrears. But he maintained the monthly payments from March until 
November, when another payment was missed. Lloyds wrote to Mr E at the time and asked 
him to make a payment to bring the account up to date or contact it to put a payment plan in 
place. It says it didnt hear from Mr E, so it sent him a final demand at the end of November. 
Lloyds says it didnt hear anything from Mr E in response, so it defaulted the loan account 
and passed it to the Recoveries department in December.
Mr E complained to Lloyds in January. He said he had received a number of arrears notices 
and had tried to contact Lloyds each time to explain his situation. He says this hadnt been 
successful because of Lloyds phone system. He said that his income was sufficient to meet 
the payments and that Lloyds should have looked at this and called him before taking steps 
which affected his credit file.
But Lloyds said that Mr E hadnt responded to the Default Notice and hadnt cleared the 
arrears. It said that he hadnt responded to the final demand sent in November either. So it 
didnt think it had done anything wrong by closing the account in December. Lloyds said it 
had followed the correct procedures and couldnt remove the default or reinstate the loan. It 
confirmed that the account had been sold to another business and that Mr E should speak to 
them about repayment.
Mr E wasnt happy with Lloyds response and brought the complaint to this service. He said 
that Lloyds had failed to administer the loan reasonably. He said its phone system was 
dysfunctional and that it was outdated for Lloyds to communicate by letter rather than email. 
He wanted Lloyds to acknowledge that it could have managed the situation better and asked 
it to intervene with the Credit Reference Agencies.
Our Investigator didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything. But Mr E didnt agree and asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He said that a key element of his 
complaint is that he couldnt contact Lloyds by phone to discuss the situation because 
Lloyds phone system is inadequate. He said that every time he tried to call, the waiting 
times were at least 30 minutes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed that Lloyds sent a Default Notice to Mr E in March 2022. I think that was 
reasonable because he had missed two payments by that stage and there was no plan in 
place to address the arrears.
The Default Notice asked Mr E to pay off the arrears. It said that, if he didnt do so by 16 
April, Lloyds could end his agreement. The notice listed the other steps which Lloyds could 
take if Mr E didnt clear the arrears. These included asking him to pay the full outstanding 
account balance, registering a default with the Credit Reference Agencies, instructing a debt 
collection company and selling the debt. Some of this information had also been set out in 
previous letters from Lloyds. So, Im satisfied that Lloyds made Mr E aware of the possible 
consequences of not clearing the arrears.
The letter accompanying the Default Notice said that, if Mr E couldnt pay off the arrears in 
full, Lloyds could help to find a plan that worked for him. It asked him to call to talk through 
the options. I havent seen any evidence of Mr E contacting Lloyds after the date of the 
Default Notice. The arrears remained outstanding, but Mr E resumed the monthly loan 
payments from March onwards. So Lloyds didnt default the account at that stage and I think 
that was reasonable.
I wouldnt necessarily expect a business to record a default as soon as one or two payments 
have been missed. But, where a customer is three months or more in arrears, I think its 
reasonable for the bank to view it as a default. When Mr E missed the November payment, 
three months payments became outstanding. So I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to look 
at defaulting the account at that point.
Mr E says that the contact he had from Lloyds around that time gave no indication that it was 
about to default his account. He has referred to an arrears notice and loan statement sent to 
him in December and January. These documents dont refer to default or the consequences 
of default. But two letters sent to the same address in November did specifically refer to 
default. 
The first of the November letters asked Mr E to pay off the arrears or contact Lloyds to 
discuss the options. I havent seen any evidence of Mr E contacting Lloyds after receiving 
this letter. Lloyds wrote to him again later that month. This letter was a final demand. It said 
that, if Lloyds didnt hear from Mr E within 14 days, it would end his loan agreement and ask 
him to repay the full loan amount. It also said that, if the account defaulted, Lloyds would 
have to report this to the Credit Reference Agencies. So, I find that Lloyds told Mr E that his 
account was about to be defaulted and gave him the opportunity to stop this.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr E contacted Lloyds after receiving the final demand. 
And the arrears remained outstanding. So, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to default the 
account. It did so in late December.
Mr E isnt happy that Lloyds sent him letters in the post, rather than communicating by email. 
Lloyds says it doesnt correspond with customers by email as it doesnt consider email to be 
secure. I think thats reasonable. And some of the letters which Lloyds sent here were notices under the Consumer Credit Act 1974, so Id expect Lloyds to send these by post. 
The purpose of these communications was to make Mr E aware of the status of his account. 
Im satisfied that he received them and was aware that his account was in arrears. 
If Mr E wished to discuss the situation with Lloyds, there were ways he could have done so. 
Lloyds letters said that there were several says he could get in touch: by phone, in a branch 
or through Internet Banking. I think those were reasonable communication options. The 
letters said that Mr E could use Internet Banking to find information about managing his 
account, fill out a budget and possibly set up a payment plan that way. 
Mr E says he tried contacting Lloyds many times by phone and was unsuccessful. I 
understand from his comments that he encountered long wait times when he called Lloyds. 
He says the wait time was at least 30 minutes every time he called. I havent seen evidence 
of any conversations which took place between Mr E and Lloyds after 12 March 2022. So my 
understanding is that, rather than wait, Mr E decided to end the calls and never got to the 
point of speaking to an agent. So, I dont think Lloyds could have known that Mr E was trying 
to get in touch. I think its fair to say that it is frustrating having to wait for long periods on the 
phone. But, in the circumstances, Id expect Mr E to have made the time as it was important 
that the situation with his account was addressed. 
The account had been in arrears since January and wasnt defaulted until December. So I 
think Mr E had plenty of time to contact Lloyds before the default. Id expect a customer in 
his position to have done so, even if it meant waiting for a while on the phone. Alternatively, 
he could have used Internet Banking or visited a branch, but I havent seen any evidence 
that he did so. 
Mr E says that Lloyds should have called him. He says it would have discovered that his 
financial position meant he could have resolved the issue. But in the circumstances here, I 
dont think Lloyds needed to call Mr E. It had given him enough information to make him 
aware of the situation with his account. If Mr E was able to make a payment to clear the 
arrears, I think its reasonable to expect him to have done so. If not, Lloyds had given him 
options for getting in touch and time to do so. I dont think its Lloyds fault that Mr E didnt 
manage to make contact.
In conclusion, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly here so Im not going to ask it to do 
anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman