DRN-2839334
The complaint
Mr M, helped by a representative who could interpret for him, complained because Lloyds 
Bank plc refused to refund him for transactions which he said he didnt make.
What happened
Mr M said that on 24 September 2020, he received a text from Lloyds asking him to confirm 
whether a £45.99 payment was genuine. He checked to see if his card and online banking 
were working, but said both seemed to be blocked. 
The next day, 25 September, Mr M rang Lloyds during his lunchtime to re-set his internet 
banking and memorable information. Lloyds sent a four digit code to Mr Ms phone, and he 
re-set his details. That day, Mr M received texts confirming the changes. He also received 
one confirming he had set up a new recipient, and saying that if he hadnt done so, he 
should ring Lloyds.
Mr Ms account was debited with four transactions to two new recipients:
£8 to a new recipient at 13:44 pm
£900 to a different new recipient at 13:46 pm
£1,400 to the second recipient at 15:19 pm
£460 to the second recipient at 15:35 pm.
Mr M later said he realised on 25 September that something bad had happened. On 28 
September, Mr M went to a branch to report the fraudulent transactions. The branch gave Mr 
M a phone number to ring. He later tried this, but there was a language barrier and Mr M 
was asked to go to a branch, where his claim could be made through a trusted interpreter.
Mr M returned to the branch on 5 October, and then made a call to Lloyds fraud team. On 
20 October he went back to the branch with a friend who could speak English better than Mr 
M. Mr Ms internet banking was restored and the process was started to send him a new 
card. But Lloyds told him it wasnt likely to be able to help him about the transactions. So Mr 
M, helped by his friend, complained.
In its final response, Lloyds said it couldnt refund Mr M. It explained that the payments had 
been made through Mr Ms online banking, after a login using the password and memorable 
information which Mr M had re-set earlier the same day. And the payments had been made 
from a mobile which had also been registered to Mr Ms account shortly after he re-set his 
internet banking. Lloyds also said that Mr M had told them that hed written down the new 
internet banking details in his diary, after theyd been re-set, although he had said no-one 
else could have accessed these.
Mr M wasnt satisfied and, helped by a representative who could interpret for him, contacted 
this service. He said that after re-setting his online banking with Lloyds at lunchtime on 25 
September, hed gone back to work but had his phone with him all the time. He said his 
phone is locked with a number known only to him. He hadnt downloaded any software or 
made any payments requested by anyone. Mr M also said that he keeps information such as 
passwords in a book, but this was at home that day and no-one could have obtained it.
The investigator noted that the disputed payments must have been made by:
- logging on to Mr Ms online banking, through his mobile app; and
- entering the payment information; and 
- either an authentication call, or entering a one-time passcode.
The investigator said he wasnt persuaded that Mr Ms information and phone had been 
compromised in the hour between Mr M re-setting his account details, and the first of the 
disputed payments. He thought it was more likely than not that Mr M had agreed to the 
payments leaving his account. So he didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr Ms representative didnt agree. She said that Mr M hadnt authorised the payments, 
which hed be willing to testify in court. She also said that the phone on which the payments 
had been authorised had been a different type of phone from Mr Ms.  She explained that 
neither Mr M nor his wife had a strong command of English, so reporting the incident would 
have been difficult. She asked whether Lloyds had agreed that it sent the text on 24 
September.
The investigator sent Mr Ms representative a copy of Lloyds screenshots, showing the 
same phone was used to log in and make the payments. And he pointed out that the 
questions hed asked Mr M hadnt indicated that anyone could have hacked his phone, or 
got control of the newly-changed details. He also said that although it wasnt clear whether 
or not Lloyds had sent a text on 24 September, this didnt make any difference because Mr 
Ms security details had been re-set on 25th. 
Mr Ms representative didnt agree, and said that Mr M would like an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initial matters
First, Mr Ms representative has said hed be willing to testify in court. This service is  
different from the courts, and were a free and informal dispute resolution service. But if Mr M 
doesnt agree with this services final decision, he can take his complaint to a court. 
When considering this complaint, Ive noted that on Mr Ms complaint form to us, he said he 
was complaining about unauthorised push payments or transfers fraudulently made from 
my bank account.  To clarify, a push payment isnt what Mr M has described to us. A 
push payment is when a consumer is tricked into making a payment themselves (in other 
words, pushed into it), which is to the benefit of the fraudster. Mr M has been clear that he 
didnt carry out or authorise the payments himself, so what happened isnt a push 
payment. So Ive considered his complaint on the basis that he said someone else 
fraudulently carried out the disputed transactions.
Mr M has raised multiple points in his submissions to the service. Ive understood and looked 
into all of those, but Ive commented on what I think is vital to my conclusions. 
I also appreciate that, as Mr Ms representative has pointed out, English isnt Mr Ms first 
language. But his representative has sent us clear and helpful information and arguments. 
So Im satisfied that, with her help, I have fully understood Mr Ms case.
Regulations about disputed payments There are regulations about disputed payments. The relevant regulations for disputed 
transactions taking place on 25 September 2020 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Lloyds) must show the transaction 
was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, the computer evidence from Lloyds 
shows that the four disputed transactions were authenticated using Mr Ms details.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
Who authorised the four disputed payments
Mr M and Lloyds both agree that Mr M re-set his internet banking and memorable 
information at lunchtime on 25 September. This was completed at 12:34 pm.
The first disputed payment took place just over an hour later, at 1:44pm. The disputed 
payments used Mr Ms new login and security information. So if a third party fraudulently 
obtained Mr Ms details in order to make the payments, theyd have had to have done so 
during this small window of opportunity.
As Ive set out above, Mr M told us that after re-setting his online banking, he went back to 
work but had his phone with him all the time. He said his phone is locked with a number 
known only to him. He hadnt downloaded any software or made any payments requested by 
anyone. He hadnt lost his phone and still had it with him. Mr M also said that he keeps 
information such as passwords in a book, but his book was at home that day and no-one 
could have obtained it.
This means that I cant see how a fraudulent third party could have obtained Mr Ms new 
security details. This is the key point in this complaint.
Ive seen that Mr M didnt immediately report a problem to Lloyds. He told our investigator 
that he received the texts about new payees being set up, but didnt report it straightaway 
because it was close to the weekend. Lloyds has weekend and out of hours facilities for 
fraud reporting, so I think it would be reasonable for him to have reported the problem earlier 
than he did. And when he did report it, there were gaps between getting in touch on 28 
September, and contacting the bank on 5 October and 20 October. I accept Mr Ms reps 
argument that Mr M would have found it daunting to contact Lloyds, especially by phone, 
because he doesnt have a strong command of English. But the amount which had been 
withdrawn was significant, and put the account into the overdraft facility which had been put 
in place in the month of the disputed transactions. So I think its unusual that Mr M didnt ask 
friends to help him report the issue earlier than he did.  
Mr M has argued that the payments couldnt be genuine because they were authorised using 
a phone with a different type of operating system from the one registered with Lloyds. But 
the number used was Mr Ms registered phone number.  The investigator sent Mr Ms 
representative screenshots of Lloyds report showing that Mr Ms registered number carried 
out the payments. There could be a number of reasons why his phone showed as a different 
type of operating system. But its certainly possible for one type of phone operating system 
to be changed so it appears as another type of operating system. So this alone doesnt 
prove that the payments werent authorised by Mr M.Ive also looked at the pattern of the withdrawals. Normally, if fraudsters obtain access to an 
account, they will carry out multiple transactions very fast. This is so they can get as much 
money as possible, before the account holder finds out and blocks the account. But here, 
after the first two disputed transactions at 1:44pm and 1:46pm, theres a considerable gap till 
3:19 pm and 3:35pm. This isnt a typical fraud pattern.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its unlikely that a fraudster carried out the 
disputed withdrawals. I find that its more likely than not that Mr M authorised the payments 
himself. If he allowed a known third party to make the transactions using his details, the 
outcome is the same because that would count as Mr M authorising the transactions. So I 
dont require Lloyds to refund Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman