DRN-2117470
The complaint
Mr T complains Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined his personal accident 
claim. His complaint is brought on his behalf by a representative, but for ease, Ill refer to all 
submissions as having been made by Mr T himself. 
What happened
Mr T is a professional sportsperson and I will refer to his occupation as the sport. Hes a 
beneficiary of a personal accident policy held by a sporting association. 
Mr T unfortunately suffered an accident whilst competing in the sport in mid-2013, and he 
sustained a severe traumatic brain injury.  
Following surgery and rehabilitation, Mr T re-applied for his sporting licence from the 
relevant professional body in Britain in June 2015. This was granted, and Mr T returned to 
competing shortly after. 
In February 2017, Mr T moved abroad and applied for the same type of licence from the 
relevant professional body in that country. But his application was declined on medical 
grounds. Mr T applied again to the authority in Britain in December 2017, but this was also 
declined for the same reasons. 
Mr T made a claim under the Permanent Total Disablement section of the policy. The policy 
defines permanent total disablement as follows: 
Any permanent disablement which lasts without interruption for more than 52 weeks 
from the date of Accident and being without hope of improvement wholly and 
permanently prevents the Insured Person from pursuing their career [in the sport] 
under the Licensing rules of [the licencing authority].
Aviva declined Mr Ts claim. It said the medical evidence showed his condition had improved 
following the accident, and hed been able to resume competing in the sport. It said there 
was no cover under the policy as an exclusion applied: 
This policy does not cover any consequence whatsoever resulting directly or 
indirectly from or in connection with any of the following regardless of any other 
contributory cause or event
(8) any claim where an insured person has been passed fit to resume [the sport] 
following an Accident. 
Mr T complained. And in response Aviva said it thought its decision on the claim had been 
correct and it didnt change its position. It said the criteria for permanent total disablement 
wasnt met. And the exclusion applied, as Mr T was deemed fit to compete in the sport again 
in 2015, and did so on several occasions.
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mr T brought his complaint to this service. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened and said she didnt think Aviva had 
acted unfairly. 
Mr T disagreed with the investigators view. He said although he had tried to return to the 
sport, it was his original accident and injury which had caused him to be unable to renew his 
sporting licence.  And he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
Aviva didnt make any further comments. 
As Mr T asked for a decision from an ombudsman, the case has been passed to me to 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with the investigator that this complaint should not be 
upheld. And for broadly the same reasons.
I was very sorry to hear of Mr Ts accident and the ongoing difficulties he faces as a result. 
And while I appreciate my decision will come as a great disappointment to him, I dont think it 
would be reasonable for me to ask Aviva to pay the claim in these particular circumstances. 
Ill explain why.
Ive considered the relevant rules and industry guidelines which say Aviva has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Following his very serious accident in 2013, Mr T underwent a series of surgery and 
rehabilitation treatment to aid his recovery. When he re-applied for his sporting licence in 
2015, this was granted. And he went on to compete professionally in the sport again.  
The policy requires that the disablement wholly and permanently prevents the Insured 
Person from pursuing their career. And Mr T was able to resume competing after his 
accident. So I dont think it was unfair for Aviva to say Mr T didnt meet the permanent total 
disablement policy term.
The policy contains an exclusion which says there is no cover for any claim where an 
insured person has been passed fit to resume [the sport] following an Accident. And Aviva 
applied this to Mr Ts claim. 
Mr T was granted a renewed license for the sport in 2015 by the relevant professional body. 
And this was after his accident, so Im satisfied this means he was passed fit to resume the 
sport. And Mr T competed in the sport again for some time after this. So Im persuaded 
Aviva applied this exclusion fairly. 
Mr T has raised concerns about the clarity of the exclusion. He said the word claim rather 
than injury makes the exclusion ambiguous and thinks it should be interpreted to apply only 
if he had been passed fit to resume at the time he made the claim. The exclusion is broad in its reference to the time period being following an accident. But I 
dont think this means the exclusion is unclear or unfair. And I dont think the use of the word 
claim instead of injury makes a difference, as the claim was made due to the injury.  
Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide which 
risks they want to cover. So Im not persuaded that it would be fair to interpret this exclusion 
in the way Mr T has suggested. 
The same professional body which granted Mr T his licence for the sport in 2015, turned it 
down on medical grounds when he applied again in 2017. I understand there was a change 
in the way the professional body made its assessments in relation to head injuries. And this 
is what caused the difference in the outcome of Mr Ts licencing applications. Ive carefully 
considered the information provided about this, but it isnt something which I can reasonably 
hold Aviva accountable for. So Im still of the opinion that Aviva hasnt acted unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman