complaint
Miss G has complained that Santander UK Plc ("Santander"), previously Alliance & 
Leicester, mis-sold her a personal loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss G took out the PPI in 2009 at the same time as arranging the loan over the internet.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Santander didnt advise Miss G to buy the policy, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss G got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her.
Looking at the information provided by Santander, Im not persuaded that Miss G was given 
good enough information about the cost of the policy at the point that she decided to buy it.
Santander has said that the cost of the PPI couldnt be provided when Miss G chose to take 
PPI, as it was only calculated once the loan had been approved and the applicable interest 
rate applied. There was an online calculator that an applicant could use which would provide 
an indication of the repayment costs with and without PPI. But an applicant didnt have to 
use this calculator as it wasnt a mandatory part of the application process. So I cant safely 
say that Miss G would have been aware of how much shed be paying for the PPI when she 
chose to take it out.
Santander says that Miss G would have been sent a welcome pack which included a letter 
giving more details of the PPI, including information on the cost. However it doesnt have a 
copy of the actual letter that it says was sent to Miss G. Instead it has provided a sample of 
the sort of letter it says was in use at the time. But even if Miss G did receive such a letter, it 
was after the point that she had already agreed to take out the policy.
DRN-1044277The cost of the PPI was £46.37 per month and in the event of a successful claim it would 
have a monthly benefit of £193.28. Taking everything into account, including the cost and 
Miss Gs circumstances, I dont think she would have thought it was good value for money. It 
follows that I dont think she would have taken out the policy had she been given clearer 
information about its cost.
Therefore Miss G has lost out because of what Santander did wrong, so it needs to put 
things right.
putting things right
Santander should put Miss G in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. So 
Santander should:
Pay Miss G the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The
rate of interest is 8% a year*.
If Miss G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
Santander has already paid Miss G back some of the money she paid for the PPI (in
relation to the commission and profit share it received) and it can take that off from
the amount it owes her.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander
must give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint and require Santander UK Plc to pay 
Miss G compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman