DRN-3519600
The complaint
Mrs H complains about a car she acquired using a hire purchase agreement provided by
Startline Motor Finance Limited. She says the car had issues shortly after she got it which
reoccurred a few months later.
What happened
In February 2021 Mrs H acquired a used car. The cash price of the car was £16,240. Mrs H
paid a deposit of £59.24 and the rest was funded with a hire purchase agreement through
Startline.
The car was around three years and four months old, and the mileage was recorded on the
agreement as 32,788.
Mrs H says the car displayed warning lights after she got it and in May 2021 she had a
diagnostic which showed several fault codes. She contacted the dealer for a repair. Mrs H
says the dealer cleared the codes and said it couldnt find a fault, but said the car might have
had a misfire.
At the end of June 2021 Mrs H says the warning lights came back on and she took it to a
manufacturers garage at the beginning of July. At this point the cars mileage was recorded
as 36,509. This garage said there was a problem with the oil pressure and the car needed
immediate attention. Mrs H says she was told not to drive the car and so stopped doing so at
this point. She then complained to Startline.
Startline began to investigate and it arranged for an independent inspection of the car. In
summary, this said the car had an oil pressure warning displaying and a fault code stored.
But it said this would not have been present or developing at the point Mrs H got the car.
Mrs H referred her complaint to our service. She said she was having to pay tax, insurance
and parking fees for a car she couldnt drive. And she said this had caused her a lot of stress
and upset, along with issues travelling. She said she wanted to reject the car.
In December 2021 Startline issued its final response. This said, in summary, that as the
independent inspection concluded that the fault wasnt present at the point of supply, it was
not upholding the complaint. Mrs H remained unhappy with this and our service began to
investigate.
Our investigator issued an opinion and explained she thought the complaint should be
upheld. She said, in summary, that she thought the later fault with the car was likely the
same as the earlier one. She thought this meant the car was not of satisfactory quality when
it was supplied. So, she said as the dealer had the opportunity to repair this, she thought
Mrs H should now be allowed to reject the car.
She said Mrs H should be reimbursed for her insurance, tax and parking permit. She thought
Mrs H should also be reimbursed for the diagnostic she paid for and she said Startline
should pay £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Startline didnt respond to the investigators opinion. So the case was prepared for an
ombudsmans decision.
In February 2022 Mrs H let us know she had declared the car SORN. And in March 2022
Mrs H told us the car had been towed away as the parking spots outside her home had been
suspended. Mrs H received a fixed penalty notice for this. She said the car had then gone
into tow mode and she was worried about being able to lock it.
In April 2022 Mrs H let us know the DVLA had clamped and then taken the car. She showed
us a letter saying this was because it was neither taxed nor SORN. She says she has
appealed this and the car is being returned to her  but she has had to pay £555 for this.
I sent Mrs H and Startline a provisional decision on 5 May 2022. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Mrs H complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into
consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I
can consider Mrs Hs complaint against Startline.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I have regard to relevant law, guidance and
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. This says
under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Startline here  needs to make sure the
goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would
expect  taking into account any relevant factors.
Relevant factors in a case involving a car would seem to me to be things including, but not
limited to, the cars age, price, mileage and description.
Ill consider that Mrs Hs car was over three years old and had covered over 30,000 miles.
So, I think a reasonable person would not expect it to be in the same condition as a new car.
But, that being said, Ill consider that Mrs H paid over £16,000 for the car. So, I think a
reasonable person wouldve still expected it to be in good condition and wouldve expected
trouble free motoring for a fair amount of time.
So, what I need to consider in this case is whether the car supplied to Mrs H was of
satisfactory quality or not. If it wasnt, I need to think about what would be fair and
reasonable to put things right.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute here that the car had a fault with it. I say this as Startline
acknowledged this in its final response. And the independent report said:
An oil pressure fault turn off engine message was illuminated in red on the dashboard
display. At this point we turned the engine off.
The key thing I need to consider here is whether this issue was present or developing at the
point of supply. Startline relied on the independent report, which noted in relation to this:
Based on the evidence that is available at the time of our inspection and on engineering
facts it is our opinion that the faults displayed would not have been present or developing at
the point of sale.
Ive carefully thought about this. Mrs H says the car showed warning lights shortly after she
got it and this was raised with the dealer in May 2021, around three months after she got the
car. She says these were the same lights that came on when the car later broke down. Ivealso considered that the fault code P1034 which was noted on the independent inspection
was also noted by Mrs H when she text the dealer about the initial issues.
We attempted to get further information about what happened at the dealer, but Startline
hasnt been able to provide any. In the absence of other evidence, such as job sheets,
based on the above I think its most likely the earlier issue Mrs H had was linked to the later
one. Given this, Im not persuaded by the independent reports conclusion that the fault
wasnt potentially developing at the point of sale. But, either way, I would still reach the
conclusion the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Ill explain why.
When considering satisfactory quality, the CRA says the durability of goods should be
considered. So, Ive thought about what mileage the car had covered when it first developed
issues. I dont have job sheets to show this exactly, but the diagnostic shows the mileage as
36,480 in July 2021. The mileage of the car is shown on the agreement as 32,788. Working
out the average, this means the car wouldve covered around 2,600 miles at the time Mrs H
was texting the dealer about the initial problems. And its quite possible from what Mrs H
said that the warnings were appearing earlier than this.
Ive carefully thought about this. I dont think a reasonable person would expect a car that
cost over £16,000 to develop a fault like this after only around 15 weeks and 2,600 miles. It
follows that I dont think the car supplied was durable. And Im satisfied this means it was not
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs H.
So, Ive then gone on to consider what would be fair and reasonable to put things right.
Mrs H has asked to reject the car. Given the dealer had an opportunity to repair the issue,
and Im satisfied this wasnt successful, I agree with out investigator here that Mrs H has a
right under the CRA to reject the car.
Mrs H says she stopped driving the car on 2 July 2021. I have no reason to doubt this. So, I
think its fair all of the repayments towards the agreement are reimbursed from this time.
Mrs H has shown she has been paying insurance on the car which I think should be
reimbursed. She has also shown the cost of taxing the car up to the point it was declared
SORN.
Mrs H has had to pay for a parking space to store the car, which I think should be
reimbursed from the point she couldnt drive it.
I think its fair Mrs H should be reimbursed £72 for the cost of the diagnostic in July 2021.
Ive very carefully thought about the later charges incurred by Mrs H. I appreciate the
difficulty having the parking space taken out of use must have caused her. But, I need to
consider whether she took reasonable steps to mitigate any losses here. And, considering
everything, I dont think she did, as the car was left somewhere it presumably shouldnt have
been. So, I dont think Startline needs to reimburse her for the penalty notice and costs from
having her car towed at this point.
Ive also carefully thought about the later issue Mrs H had when the DVLA took the car. I
again need to consider if she took reasonable steps here to mitigate any losses. I should
make it clear that I am making no finding if the DVLA acted correctly here. But, if it didnt,
then Mrs H will need to appeal this issue with the DVLA directly. And if it did take the car
correctly, then I dont think Mrs H mitigated any loses here. So, thinking about all the
information I have, I dont think Startline needs to reimburse this cost to Mrs H.
Finally, Im satisfied Mrs H has been caused distress and inconvenience because of what
happened here. In addition to the stress caused by having to deal with the general situation,Mrs H has told us she was classed as high risk from COVID-19 and has provided evidence
to show this. But, because of the issues with the car, she says she had to take public
transport during the pandemic which she found very stressful and upsetting. Our investigator
said she thought Startline should pay £150 to reflect this. But, under the circumstances I
think it would be fair and reasonable to increase this to £300.
On the same day the provisional decision was issued, I sent a follow up to Mrs H and 
Startline explaining that I also thought Startline should also remove any adverse information 
about the agreement from Mrs Hs credit file in addition to the other remedies in my 
provisional decision.
I gave both parties until 19 May 2022 to come back with any further comments or evidence.
Startline didnt respond. Mrs H came back and made some further points.
Mrs H explained shed continued to pay for her insurance until 18 May 2022. She also 
explained she had continued to pay for her parking space until 19 April 2022. And she said 
once the car was back after being towed, she had to pay to keep it off the road at a cost of 
£70 per week.
I then got in touch with Startline and explained, given the above, that I would likely add these 
additional costs to the redress I recommended. I gave them a further deadline until 3 June 
2022 to respond with any comments. Startline did not reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs H said in response to my provisional decision. Thinking 
about the parking space, Mrs H has said this was kept until the car was towed in April 2022. 
So, I think its fair the period I recommended in my provisional decision for this to be 
reimbursed is extended.
I also think it would be reasonable to further cover the insurance costs Mrs H told us about 
given she says she continued to insure the car.
Mrs H has also provided a contract for a parking space on a driveway. This appears to be on 
private land. I think its fair and reasonable Mrs H took this action to mitigate any further 
losses given the SORN status of the car  so it follows I think its fair and reasonable for 
Startline to reimburse these costs.
Having thought about all of the other information about this case again, I still think it should 
be upheld. This is due to the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and set 
out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Startline Motor Finance Limited to 
put things right by doing the following:
Collect the car at a time and date suitable for Mrs H at no cost to her
End the agreement with nothing further to payReimburse the deposit of £59.24*
Reimburse all repayments towards the agreement from 2 July 2021 until the point of 
settlement*
Reimburse Mrs H the cost of the diagnostic - £72  from 2 July 2021*
Reimburse the pro rata cost of taxing the car - £13.12 per month  from 2 July 2021 
until Mrs H says she declared the car SORN  5 February 2022*
Reimburse the pro rata cost of insuring the car - £585.05 per year - from 2 July 2021 
until 18 May 2022*
Reimburse Mrs H the pro rata cost of the initial parking space - £12.67 per month - 
from 2 July 2021 until 19 April 2022*
Reimburse Mrs H the pro rata cost of the later parking space - £70 a week - from 
22 April 2022 to the date the car is collected*
Pay Mrs H £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Hs credit file in relation to this agreement
* These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If Startline considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs H how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman