DRN-3652529
Complaint
Mr S has complained that TM Advances Limited (TM Advances) provided him with an 
unaffordable loan.
Background
TM Advances provided Mr S with a loan of £4,000.00 in May 2018. This loan had an APR of 
121.7% and a 45-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £13,005.00 was 
due to be repaid in 45 monthly instalments of £289.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that TM Advances unfairly 
provided this loan to Mr S as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable.
TM Advances disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr S complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr S complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did TM Advances complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr S would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did TM Advances act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did TM Advances complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
TM Advances provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required TM Advances to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr S ability to make the 
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TM Advances had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr S. In practice this 
meant that TM Advances had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt 
cause Mr S undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for TM Advances to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were TM Advances checks reasonable and proportionate?
TM Advances says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr S prior 
to providing him with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. Mr S income was recorded 
as being £6,000.00 a month and he had expenditure of just under £4,000 a month. TM 
Advances verified Mr S income with payslips. In its view, all of this left Mr S with sufficient 
disposable income to make the repayments to this loan. 
Ive carefully considered what TM Advances has said. But the credit check it carried out 
showed Mr S was carrying quite a bit of debt and had taken out a lot of recent credit. Mr S 
may have had a relatively high monthly salary, but I think that the information on the credit 
check was enough to call into question the expenditure information provided. Indeed, I have 
to question why Mr S would need to borrow on such disadvantageous terms if he had close to this amount available in disposable income in the first place. In these circumstances, I 
think that TM Advances needed to take steps to verify Mr S actual monthly expenditure. 
As I cant see that this TM Advances did do this and instead chose to rely on what looked to 
have been an overoptimistic assessment of Mr S disposable income, I dont think that the 
checks it carried out before providing Mr S with his loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to TM Advances that Mr S would 
have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided,
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have told TM Advances that Mr S would have 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
TM Advances was required to establish whether Mr S could make his loan repayments 
without experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that while Mr S 
had a relatively high income, he had a high level of expenditure too. Indeed he was regularly 
overdrawn and was borrowing from a number of different short-term lenders in order to try 
and meet his commitments. And I think the proportionate checks would have shown TM 
Advances that he was likely to use this loan for similar purposes, or to at least cover the hole 
this left in his finances, which meant he was unlikely to be able to make his payments 
without borrowing further or suffering significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr S would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted TM Advances to the fact that Mr S was in no sort of position to make the 
payments on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did TM Advances act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that TM Advances acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other 
way. So I dont think TM Advances acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some 
other way.
Did Mr S lose out as a result of TM Advances unfairly providing him with this loan?
As Mr S paid a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what TM Advances did wrong.
So I think that TM Advances needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what TM Advances needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, TM Advances should put things right for Mr S by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr S made, whether to TM Advances or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £4,000.00 originally lent. If Mr S has already repaid more than £4,000.00 then TM Advances should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr S;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr S to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information TM Advances recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr S 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to take off tax from this interest. TM 
Advances must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr S complaint. TM Advances Limited needs 
to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman