DRN-4435724
The complaint
Mrs D says Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
Mrs D took out a loan for £3,500 over 36 months on 7 July 2021. The monthly repayments 
were £227.52 and the total repayable was £8,190.72. There remains an outstanding 
balance.
Mrs D says she had unsettled defaults and other adverse information on her credit file when 
she applied. The loan should never have been given to her. ELL says its checks were 
reasonable and proportionate and showed Mrs D could sustainably afford its loan.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ds complaint. She said if ELL had appropriately considered   
Mrs Ds unsettled default balances it ought to have realised she could not afford this loan.
ELL disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. It said it assumed Mrs D was 
repaying 1% (not 5% as the investigator said) of her defaulted balances. This was fair as 
there was no evidence she was paying more. And customers typically only make nominal 
payments towards historic defaults. Also, it had included Mrs Ds mobile handset costs in her 
living expenses and therefore not also as a creditor payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Mrs D required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she owed in a 
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an 
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs D. In
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs D.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Mrs D. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mrs Ds loan
applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable
way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did ELL make a fair lending decision?
did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mrs D before it approved the loan. It asked
for details of her income and checked this. It asked for copies of recent bank statements and 
a payslip. It asked about her housing costs and estimated her living costs using national 
statistics, adding a buffer to cover unexpected costs. It also checked Mrs Ds credit file to 
understand her existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. It asked about the 
purpose of the loan which was home improvements. 
From these checks combined ELL concluded Mrs D would have £251.22 of disposable 
income each month after taking on the loan and so it was affordable. 
I think these checks were proportionate but I am not satisfied ELL made a fair lending 
decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
The remaining dispute in this complaint that is material to the outcome is about what value 
ELL should have assigned for the repayment of defaulted debt. ELL could see from its credit 
check that Mrs D had six defaults in 2017 and 2018. Four had been settled, but there 
remained a high level of historic debt of £12,875 that was not yet settled. Relative to Mrs Ds 
income this was not insignificant. ELL argues as it was most likely Mrs D was only making 
nominal payments at around 1% of balance that is what it considered in its affordability 
assessment. It adds Mrs Ds bank statements do not show she was paying any more than 
this, and definitely not the 5% of balance the investigator said should be considered. 
But I agree with the investigator  I think a fair affordability assessment has to consider this 
loan in the context of Mrs D  even if only theoretically - making a higher repayment to her 
debt collectors. I say this based on the regulatory requirements set out below from CONC 
5.2A.12 (R) that state:
The firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement 
4) without failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory 
obligation to make;
and 5) without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
I would argue ELL did not do this as it can only defend the loan as affordable if it ignores that 
Mrs D was already in breach of other contractual obligations i.e.. those of her credit 
agreements that had defaulted. And to assume she would only ever make nominal 
repayments to allow her to prioritise meeting the contractual repayments of this new credit 
agreement means she would not be repaying her defaulted debt as quickly as otherwise 
possible. This does not seem fair and reasonable to Mrs D in the context of the requirement 
for ELLs checks to be borrower-focused, and to not just consider the likelihood of ELL 
getting its money back, but also the impact on Mrs D.
It follows I agree with the investigators findings that this loan ought not to have been 
assessed as affordable for Mrs D. Had ELL allocated a higher value to the repayment of 
defaulted debts, Mrs D would not have had the necessary disposable income to sustainably 
afford this loan.
In the round I think ELL was wrong to give this loan to Mrs D.
I have not found any evidence ELL acted unfairly towards Mrs D in some other way.
Putting things right
To settle Mrs Ds complaint, ELL must:
1) Add up the total amount of money Mrs D received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Mrs D made should be deducted from this amount.
a) If this results in Mrs D having paid more than they received, any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then ELL should attempt to arrange an 
affordable and suitable payment plan with Mrs D.
2) To remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Ds credit file relating to this 
loan once any outstanding capital balance has been repaid.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mrs D a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to 
reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Ds complaint. Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, 
must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman