DRN-3418469
The complaint
Mr O complained that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, (NewDay) unfairly turned down his 
claim brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr O signed up with a travel company with the aim of being able to take holidays. He made 
three separate payments in November 2016, January 2017 and August 2017 totalling 
£613.84 and was entitled to take a total of seven holidays. The payments were made using 
his NewDay credit card. But Mr O said that he wasnt able to book holidays as expected as 
the travel company never had availability.
Unhappy with the service he received from the company, he complained to NewDay under 
provisions in the CCA, arguing that it was jointly responsible for what had gone wrong. 
NewDay responded to say it didnt accept the claim made as it couldnt identify a breach of 
contract. 
Mr O called NewDay to say he wasnt happy with its decision not to uphold his claim, and it 
agreed to look at it again, but having done so, it didnt change its position on the claim. 
NewDay said the travel company had explained that it had offered alternative weeks to Mr O 
when he couldnt get the availability he wanted, so they had offered to provide services 
under the contract. Mr O said this wasnt the case and that the travel company hadnt 
actually offered him accommodation. Unhappy with the response, Mr O brought his claim to 
our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint, but didnt think it was one that should 
have been upheld. They looked at what Mr O had said, but didnt think there was sufficient 
evidence to say that he was told there would be unlimited availability or that he would be 
able to book fortnightly holidays. Mr O didnt agree with the view and asked for the complaint 
to be looked at again by an ombudsman.
The complaint was passed to me and, after considering all of the available evidence and 
arguments, I came to a different conclusion to our adjudicator. So I issued a provisional 
decision setting out my provisional findings and inviting both parties to give me anything 
further they wanted me to think about.
In my provisional decision, I noted that Mr Os complaint was that NewDay turned down his 
claim under the CCA. The provisions of the CCA, to which Mr O referred, deal with products 
bought using credit. He said that the travel company hadnt provided him the holidays he 
expected under the agreement and pointed to s.75 CCA to say that NewDay was jointly 
liable to him for those breaches.
S.75 CCA reads:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
So I looked at what Mr O said happened to see whether that could amount to a breach of 
contract.
Mr O set out the holidays he said he tried to book. He said that he originally took one short 
break in England in 2017. Later that year he tried to book another break in England for that 
December, but he said the travel company lost his booking and then later said there was no 
availability in England until 2018. Mr O said he was offered a weekend away in Scotland, but 
this wasnt suitable due to the travel time for a short break, and he also noted that the 
holiday in England that he had tried to book was still showing as available on the travel 
companys website. He said he tried to book two holidays overseas, but was told he had to 
complete one holiday before he was allowed to book a second one and that the travel 
company would not book fortnightly holidays. Following this, Mr O raised his claim.
Whilst the complaint was with our service, Mr O said he was contacted by the travel 
company asking why he had not booked any holidays with them. Its records showed that a 
week had been booked in 2017 for the following year, but had been cancelled. Mr O said this 
didnt happen and asked to see a copy of the booking logs, but nothing was subsequently 
provided by the travel company.
In September 2018 Mr O was able to get a two-night hotel booking through the travel 
company, albeit after a lot of pushing to get it arranged and outside of the providers normal 
timescales for confirming a booking.
Throughout 2019 Mr O said that he tried to book stays through the travel company without 
success, often being promised call backs that didnt materialise. And in 2020 he tried to 
make bookings that appeared available on the travel companys website, but was told they 
were not available for the entirety of the year. Mr Os entitlement to use the holidays ran out 
in August 2020.
After I reviewed the file, I asked NewDay to get some more evidence from the travel 
company so I could understand its position on what had been alleged. I noted that for the 
travel company to fulfil its side of the agreement, it would have to be able to provide seven 
holidays to Mr O. So I asked for it to set out what availability it had for holidays and what 
records it had of Mr O trying to book holidays. I also asked for it to set out how it operates in 
arranging holidays and how this was presented to Mr O.
The travel company responded with the following:
I can see that having reviewed our mutual clients account, they had a total of 7 
breaks active until August of 2020.
I can see that the travelled on two breaks, both in the UK, since the earliest date that 
you have pointed out in the email below, but I cannot discuss anything further due to 
Data Protection Regulations.
The breaks purchased are subject to availability, against a number of hotels/resorts 
on the company website and are not for a specific date nor destination.
In reviewing the account I do not agree with the assessment that has been made, 
that the company was in breach of contract and the breaks have now expired, as per 
the contract with our mutual client.Based on what Mr O set out, I thought it was clear that he tried to book holidays with the 
travel company, but had been unable to do so. I thought the evidence he presented had 
been clear and consistent and I had no reason to doubt what he said. In contrast, the travel 
company had not provided any evidence that Mr O would have been able to book the 
holidays he was entitled to under the contract. Having looked at the evidence, I thought it 
more likely that Mr O did try to book holidays, but he was not given the holidays he wanted 
nor was he offered any reasonable alternative. It followed I thought the travel company didnt 
provide what it had agreed to provide under the contract it had with Mr O, so I thought it was 
in breach of that contract.
I noted that under s.75 CCA, NewDay could be held jointly liable with the travel company for 
that breach of contract. So I considered what damages Mr O would have been entitled to 
and, therefore, what I thought NewDay needed to do.
Mr O paid a total of £613.84 for seven holidays. They were supposed to be either a week- 
long overseas holiday or a shorter break within the UK. Mr O was able to go on two trips, so 
I thought he was entitled to compensation for the missed trips, i.e. 5/7 of the contract price or
£438.46. Mr O also needed to be paid compensatory interest on this amount. I thought that 
interest should run from the time he first tried unsuccessfully to book a holiday after he 
travelled in 2018, until he got paid. Mr O said on 10 June 2019 that he had unsuccessfully 
tried to book a holiday shortly before then, so I thought interest should run from 1 June 2019.
Mr O responded to my provisional decision to say he broadly agreed with what I said, 
however he noted that he bought seven weeks of holidays but had taken two short breaks 
totalling six days. So Mr O asked if compensation should be higher at 6/7 of the contract 
price.
NewDay didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything further to consider about my provisional findings, 
save for my proposed award amount, I see no reason to depart from what I previously said. 
So for the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Os complaint against NewDay.
Ive again thought about the amount of compensation Mr O should get. Ive seen that he 
bought 7 Separate Break/s of Accommodation. Further, in the travel companys terms it 
says:
We primarily deal with one-week stays in one-bedroom self-catering apartments, 
except for UK destinations which are short breaks..
So I think Mr O bought seven separate trips, not seven full weeks of accommodation. And 
each of the two trips he took within the UK would be one of those seven trips, meaning he 
had five unused trips when the contract came to an end. It follows I think he would be 
entitled to a payment for 5/7 of the contract price.
Putting things right
I direct NewDay to pay Mr O:
1. £438.46; and2. interest at 8% per annum, simple, from 1 June 2019 to the date of payment. HMRC 
may require NewDay to take tax off this interest. If so, NewDay must tell Mr O how 
much tax was deducted.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Os complaint against NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, and direct it pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman