DRN-4344147
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about HDI Global Specialty SEs handling of claims they made under 
their buildings insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs P are joint policyholders. As most of the communication relating to the complaint 
has been from Mr P, Ill refer mainly to him in my decision.
HDI is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As HDI has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to HDI includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In October 2021, Mr and Mrs P made a claim under their buildings insurance policy with HDI 
for storm and flood damage to their property. HDI arranged for repairs to be completed to 
damage covered by their claim.
In August 2022, Mr and Mrs P made a second claim for storm damage. Repairs hadnt been 
fully completed for the damage covered by their first claim. 
HDIs contractors then found that moisture levels in the property were high. HDI said no 
further repairs could be carried out until the source of the moisture was determined and 
addressed.
Mr P complained about delays in the progression of their claim and a lack of communication 
from HDI. 
In its letter responding to Mr Ps complaint (dated 3 March 2023), HDI said its loss adjusters 
had appointed an agent to attend Mr and Mrs Ps home, but they hadnt been able to 
determine the exact cause of the damp. The loss adjusters had appointed another company 
to investigate it. HDI said this company was currently in contact with HDIs building 
contractors to arrange a joint visit to Mr and Mrs Ps home to investigate the source of the 
damp.
HDI said it felt the time taken to progress investigations had not been reasonable. It had 
found avoidable delays as well as issues over the time taken to contact Mr P. HDI 
apologised for this and offered him £150 compensation.
Mr P remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his concerns. Our investigator 
didnt think HDIs offer of compensation was enough to put things right.  She recommended 
HDI increase the compensation payment to £450.
Mr P didnt think the amount our investigator recommended was sufficient. He said the 
delays were too lengthy and hed had no communication from all the parties concerned. He 
and his family have had to live and sleep in bedrooms with dampness and mould causing 
health problems on top of mental stress.
As Mr P disagrees with our investigators outcome and HDI havent responded to it, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs P have raised several other complaints about HDIs handling of 
these claims. To be clear, in this decision I have only considered the events complained of 
that occurred from 12 September 2022 to 3 March 2023. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly.
Having reviewed HDIs records, it looks like Mr P was considering a cash settlement for 
outstanding work on the first claim and for the second claim in September / October 2022. 
HDI offered Mr P a cash settlement, but it looks like Mr P was having some difficulty 
sourcing his own contractor, so it was decided that the repairs would be carried out by HDIs 
agents.
During a site visit in early November, HDI found that moisture readings in the property were 
high. There was evidence of damp on the ground floor in areas which had been previously 
recorded as dry and where repairs had been substantially completed. There was also an 
issue with damp upstairs.
HDI arranged for the company whod previously dealt with drying out works to the property to 
attend and carry out investigations into the damp. However, they werent able to establish 
what the cause was. Another company was instructed to carry out further investigations in 
early January 2023.  
I understand there were two issues which required investigation and several parties were 
involved. However, HDI has acknowledged there were delays in progressing things. It looks 
like there was a delay in costings being approved for scaffolding and roofers in January / 
February 2023.  I can also see that Mr P chased for an update on his claim on several 
occasions. It looks like there was a delay in dehumidifiers being supplied to him in November 
/ December 2022. 
Im aware that Mr Ps claims have been ongoing for some time. But, as explained Im only 
looking at what happened from 12 September 2022 to 3 March 2023. I think it was 
necessary for HDI to have stopped repair works while it looked into what was causing the 
damp in Mr Ps home. I can see that HDIs agents were taking steps to try to resolve things 
but there were also avoidable delays. HDI also could have done more to keep Mr P up to 
date on occasion. 
I appreciate this situation has been difficult for Mr P and his family, who have been living in 
poor conditions and are concerned about the effect of the damp on their health. This is likely 
to be particularly difficult, given the length of time their first claim has been going on for. 
However, I think some of the delay within the six month period was beyond HDIs control. 
Having thought about the impact of the delays HDI is responsible for as well as the poor 
communication with Mr P, I think £450 is a reasonable amount to put things right.Putting things right
HDI should pay Mr and Mrs P £450 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and direct HDI Global 
Specialty SE to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman