DRN-3882107
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the interest rate provided by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
on Halifaxs Help to Buy ISA (HISA)
What happened
In September 2020, Mr S transferred his HISA to Halifax to take advantage of a better rate of 
interest being offered by Halifax at that time. However, Halifax later reduced the interest rate 
offered on its HISA, and because other providers arent accepting HISA transfers in, this 
means that Mr S cant take advantage of better interest rates offered by some other 
providers. Mr S wasnt happy about this and wanted Halifax to increase the rate of interest 
offered on their HISA. So, he raised a complaint.
Halifax looked at Mr Ss complaint. They declined to raise the interest rate they offered on 
the HISA at Mr Ss request and confirmed there were no restrictions imposed by Halifax that 
would prevent Mr S from transferring his HISA to another provider if he wanted to. Mr S 
wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Halifax had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Halifax have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations would 
be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective and after taking all the circumstances of a complaint into consideration. 
This means that in this instance, my remit here is focussed on whether Halifax have acted 
unfairly in how theyve administered Mr Ss HISA account, and it isnt within my remit to 
consider the broader considerations that Mr S has expressed his dissatisfaction about.
And, having reviewed how Halifax have administered Mr Ss HISA, I dont feel that they have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
In arriving at this position, Ive considered that the terms of Halifaxs HISA include that the 
interest rate is variable, which means Im satisfied that Halifax were entitled to lower the rate 
of interest on the HISA as they did.
Additionally, Halifax arent imposing any restrictions on Mr H transferring his HISA to another 
provider. And while there might not be many other providers accepting HISA transfers  with 
those that are accepting transfers having restrictions which make such a transfer unworkable 
for Mr S  this isnt Halifaxs fault. And I wouldnt consider censuring Halifax for the 
difficulties Mr S has faced trying to obtain a better rate of interest with another provider 
because of restrictions imposed by those other providers.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Halifax are entitled to set the interest rates on their variable rate 
products as they see fit. And Im also satisfied that Halifax arent preventing Mr S from 
transferring his HISA elsewhere. 
All of which means that I dont feel that Halifax have acted unfairly or unreasonably in how 
theyve administered Mr Ss HISA, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Halifax to take any further action. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr S was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman