DRN-3738102
The complaint
Mr B complains that James Hay Administration Company Ltd trading as James Hay 
Partnership didnt implement its own policy and allowed him to transfer the funds from his 
occupational pension defined benefit (DB) scheme into a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP). Mr B believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr B to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Bs. 
What happened
Mr B was a deferred member of his former employers DB scheme. In 2012 Mr B completed 
forms to apply to set up a James Hay SIPP, which included transferring the cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV), of around £142,500, into it.
James Hay processed that application and set up the SIPP. I understand Mr B then sought 
advice from a financial adviser about where to invest his funds within the SIPP. In 2015 he 
transferred the funds from his SIPP to a different pension product.
In 2022 Mr B complained to James Hay about its decision to allow him to set up the SIPP. 
Amongst other things he said this was against James Hays policy at the time. He said he 
believes hes lost valuable benefits from his DB scheme as a result. 
James Hay replied. It said it hadn't given Mr B any pension advice and the onus was on him 
to take advice about the benefits he would be giving up. It added that Mr B had signed a 
form to say that he was giving up any entitlement to benefits under the DB scheme. It also 
said that while it didn't as standard accept DB transfers where the applicant hadnt received 
advice, there were no laws or regulations preventing it from processing the application. 
James Hay also said that Mr B may have only recently learnt it had overrode its own 
internal policy to accept the transfer but it argued that was only relevant if Mr B was 
previously unaware he had suffered any loss, or could not reasonably have been expected 
to be aware of his loss any earlier. It argued that Mr B had brought his complaint too late and 
so was out of time.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He thought Mr B had brought his 
complaint in time and as such we had the authority to look at it. But he didnt think 
James Hay had done anything wrong. He said the SIPPs terms and conditions allow 
transfers from other pensions where the applicant has not received financial advice. He 
added that regulations insisting that consumers must take financial advice (in certain 
circumstances) when transferring DB scheme funds were introduced some years later and 
so didnt apply at the time of the transfer.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators assessment. Mr B accepted the SIPP allowed 
transfers in from other pensions. But James Hays own policy was that it would not accept 
transfers from DB schemes where the consumer had not received financial advice and 
James Hay hadn't explained why it moved away from that policy in this instance.
Our investigator made some further enquiries of James Hay and Mr B. James Hay said it 
hadn't made a conscious decision to allow a transfer from a DB scheme without advice. 
Instead it said it was likely the individual processing Mr Bs transfer didnt recognise it was 
from a DB scheme and so didnt question if Mr B had taken advice. It said that while it hadn't 
adhered to its own internal policy there was no regulatory requirement for it to insist that 
Mr B took advice. It also said that allowing the transfer to go ahead didnt cause Mr B any 
losses. 
Our investigator remained of the opinion that James Hay didnt need to take any further 
action. He said it was apparent it had made an admin error when processing Mr Bs 
application. But he didnt think that if James Hay had refused the application this would have 
led Mr B to seek advice about transferring. Instead our investigator believed Mr B would 
have found a different SIPP to transfer into.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint so its been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mr Bs made a number of points. I've considered everything on file. 
But in this decision I dont intend to comment on each and every issue raised. Instead I will 
focus on what I see as being the key matters at the heart of Mr Bs complaint and the 
reasons for my decision. 
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of James Hays actions here.
PRIN 2: A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our Investigator gave.
Should James Hay have allowed Mr B to transfer his DB scheme funds to a SIPP?
In 2015 a change in legislation meant that transfers of pensions with safeguarded benefits  
including DB schemes  could only go ahead when the scheme member had sought 
appropriate independent advice. But, as those rules weren't introduced until 2015, they 
weren't in place at the time that Mr B transferred his DB scheme funds in to his SIPP in 
2012. So James Hay wasnt under any regulatory obligation to ensure Mr B had been 
through that process first.
But, the SIPPs terms and conditions say that James Hay reserve the right not to accept 
certain types of transfer including those from a DB scheme where the applicant hadn't taken 
financial advice. That is not an outright refusal to allow transfers in those circumstances. But 
James Hay has since confirmed that its policy at the time was that it wouldnt usually accept 
transfers from a DB scheme where the consumer hadn't first taken advice. And it accepts it only did so in this case because it made a mistake. In other words if James Hay had acted in 
line with its usual policy it most likely wouldnt have allowed the DB fund transfer to go ahead 
when it did and would only have done so if Mr B took advice. 
I haven't seen the reasons behind James Hays policy not to accept the DB fund transfers 
without independent advice. But, its well known that DB schemes are considered to be 
extremely valuable and their benefits are difficult to match from alternative pension products. 
That's because DB schemes offer a guaranteed level of income at almost no risk to the 
member. Instead the employer sponsoring the scheme accepts the risk and promises to pay 
the member their pension entitlement once they reach the appropriate pension age. Also, 
usually, those pensions increase in line with inflation (or the relevant indexation of the 
specific scheme). That means that DB pensions retain their spending power over the years. 
DB schemes usually also have other valuable advantages, such as a guaranteed income for 
a spouse on the death of the scheme member. 
In contrast the alternative pensions on offer on the open market are unlikely to have 
guaranteed benefits. They usually involve the consumer investing their pension pot into 
various funds and they then rely on investment performance to give them an income in 
retirement. But, as those products are dependent on investment performance theres no 
guarantee what the pension will be worth once the consumer comes to take it. And as such 
they are generally seen as being inferior to DB schemes. 
Regardless of what James Hays reasons were for its policy of not accepting DB transfers 
without advice, in Mr Bs case its process broke down. From the evidence Mr B supplied with 
his SIPP application James Hay should have identified that he wanted to transfer from a DB 
scheme. And that he hadn't taken advice. So in order to act in line with its own policy  in the 
absence of other reasons for it to apply discretion to accept the transfer  it shouldn't have 
let it go ahead.
So I've gone on to think about whats more likely than not to have happened if James Hay 
had applied its policy appropriately. In those circumstances I think its likely that James Hay 
would have declined Mr Bs SIPP application, as all the funds Mr B wanted to invest in it 
were coming from his DB scheme. And, I think the decline of that application would have led 
to it explaining to Mr B that it wouldnt accept DB transfers where the client hadn't taken 
advice.
What exactly would have happened from that point can't really be known for certain. So I 
need to come to my determination based on the balance of probabilities. There are a 
number of possible scenarios. I think the two most likely are:
Mr B would have found an alternative SIPP provider who would allow him to transfer 
his DB scheme funds without taking advice.
Mr B would have taken financial advice.
I've considered each in turn.
Could Mr B have found an alternative SIPP provider who would allow him to transfer his DB 
scheme funds without taking advice?
Mr Bs argued that, as James Hay wouldn't have accepted a transfer at that time, its more 
likely than not that no other SIPP provider would have accepted a transfer in those 
circumstances either. But I don't think thats a reasonable assumption. There are numerous SIPP and personal pension providers operating in the open market. 
And as I've said above, at the time of the events Mr B complains about, there was no 
regulatory requirement for consumers to take advice before transferring out of a DB scheme. 
That requirement wouldn't arrive for another three years. So there was no rule preventing a 
DB transfer into a SIPP where advice hadnt been taken. And just because James Hay had a 
policy in place not to accept transfers in Mr Bs circumstances doesn't mean that was a 
policy other SIPP providers also adhered to. It was James Hays own policy, not a policy of 
the entire SIPP market. 
Further, in refusing to allow potential customers to invest in a SIPP, for a reason that was not 
a regulatory requirement, the SIPP providers would be essentially denying themselves the 
income the SIPP would attract by way of fees and charges. And given there was no 
regulatory barrier to a SIPP provider accepting Mr Bs application, I think its more likely than 
not that Mr B couldve found an alternative SIPP provider to accept his transfer regardless 
that he hadn't received financial advice.
I think its also worthwhile pointing out that, in response to our questions, Mr B told us that in 
order to take advice before applying to transfer his DB pension he would have had to pay an 
advisers fee. Hes quoted fee figures of between 3% and 7% of the full fund value. And that 
would be between £4,275 and £9,975. Mr Bs told us that while he wasnt aware at the time 
of the complexities involved in a DB transfer, he was perfectly capable of completing the 
application process without taking advice first. So while he might not have realised the value 
of the benefits that he was giving up by transferring, seeking that advice would have cost 
him a significant sum. And given its likely he could have found another SIPP provider who 
would have accepted his application without paying that fee, I think, on balance, that would 
have been his next steps.
Whats likely to have happened if Mr B had have taken financial advice?
Mr Bs also said that if James Hay had refused his application he would have taken financial 
advice. As I've indicated above I'm not persuaded that would have been his most likely 
course of action. But, even if I accept thats what he would have done, that doesn't mean 
that James Hay is responsible for any potential losses resulting from the transfer.
The regulators guidance has been that advising firms should start from the position that a 
DB transfer won't be suitable for most customers. But there might be genuine reasons why 
its in a consumers best interests to transfer their funds away from a DB scheme. And 
Mr Bs told us that he was considering the advantages of a SIPP because of the flexibility 
and control it would give him over his pension funds. And in those circumstances its likely 
that some advising firms at the time would have considered those objectives  flexibility and 
control  as sufficient reasons to justify a recommendation to transfer. So, even if Mr B had 
sought advice, theres no guarantee that advice would have prevented him from transferring 
his DB funds. 
In addition, as I've said above, James Hay said it reserved the right to refuse an application 
because the applicant hadn't taken financial advice. But I've seen no evidence that 
James Hay would insist that the advice given had to be positive that a transfer was in the 
consumers interest. Indeed the regulations introduced in 2015 only require that a consumer 
has taken advice before proceeding with a transfer; the regulations do not stipulate that a 
consumer must receive a positive recommendation to transfer. That means a consumer can 
still proceed with a DB transfer even when theyve been advised not to. So even if Mr B had 
decided to take financial advice, its far from guaranteed that the advice would have been that he should not transfer or that, if that had been the advice, he would have followed it and 
left his DB funds where they were. 
For the above reasons I'm not satisfied that any losses Mr B might have suffered because 
he chose to transfer his DB scheme funds to a SIPP were caused by James Hays mistake 
in not following its own policy. On balance, I think Mr B wouldve found a way to transfer his 
DB pension through other means.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman