DRN-4398988
The complaint
X complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) handling of a subsidence claim made 
under a block insurance policy which covers a property they rent out. X says AXAs poor 
service and claim handling has resulted in financial losses, including loss of rental income.
Where Ive referred to AXA below, this also includes any actions and communication by the
various parties appointed by AXA to act on their behalf.
What happened
X is a leaseholder for one of two flats in a building, and they rent their property out. The
other flat is owned by the freeholder of the building, who is also the policyholder of an
insurance policy which covers the whole building  including Xs leasehold flat. X isnt a
policyholder but is noted on the policy as an interested party due to being a leaseholder, and
the policy was taken out in part for their benefit.
Only X is party to this complaint, and it is about the alleged impact and financial losses
incurred directly by them as a result of AXAs handling of the claim.
There was a tenant in Xs flat and they moved out at the end of May 2020. In early
June 2020 during an inspection before reletting the flat, X discovered the property had
various cracks, so they notified the freeholder.
The freeholder contacted AXA to make a claim. It was determined to be subsidence, and
monitoring was required, along with the removal of a local authority owned tree. The
property was determined as stable in May 2022 and AXA could then move towards repairs.
X has been unhappy with AXAs handling of the claim throughout and raised several
complaints. This includes X saying they were unable to let out the property, and X is holding
AXA responsible for loss of rental income during the claim.
AXA issued several complaint responses in which they paid compensation. But AXA didnt
agree to pay loss of rent as they dont think the property was uninhabitable.
X remains unhappy with AXA and approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint. He thought
AXA had acted fairly by not paying loss of rent, and he thought the compensation was
already reasonable, so he didnt recommend this be increased.
X didnt agree so the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision. I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint, but for partly 
different reasons to the investigator. So, I issued a provisional decision, to give both parties 
an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision. Im not minded to uphold the complaint, but there 
are some partly different reasons for not doing so. Therefore, Im issuing a 
provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial 
findings, before reaching my final decision.
Ill start by outlining that I dont intend on commenting on everything that occurred, or 
every complaint point, concern, or issue that X has raised. Instead, Ill focus on what I 
think is important in reaching a decision which is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to either party, instead it reflects 
the informal nature of this service and my role within it. But Id like to reassure both 
parties that Ive considered all the information theyve provided when reaching my 
provisional decision.
The claim has been complex, with various parties involved, including X, the 
freeholder, AXA, loss adjusters, solicitors, the local authority, arborists, builders and 
others too.
Our investigator issued two lengthy assessments on Xs complaint, and X provided
extensive and significant amounts of comments and information in response to these. 
I dont intend on revisiting this all here in my provisional decision. Instead, Ill focus 
on the points which I think are relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable decision.
AXAs responses to Xs complaints
Following a number of complaints being raised during the claim, AXA provided 
several final responses. Ive summarised these below.
27 March 2021 final response  this was addressed to the freeholder and X jointly. 
This addressed the temporary repair to the door area which was preventing 
monitoring access. AXA said they appreciated the frustration this had caused. They 
also said they can see confusion was caused surrounding when repairs would be 
carried out. They awarded £200 compensation, but this was payable to the 
freeholder.
24 June 2021 final response  this addressed delays with the claim and 
communication issues. AXA paid £200 for this.
25 June 2021 final response  AXA apologised that X hadnt received a copy of the 
final response dated 27 March 2021. They said they agreed with the previous 
response, so the position remained unchanged. However, they recognised X wasnt 
awarded the compensation previously, so they paid this (£200), with an additional 
£50 added for what had happened.
9 September 2022 final response  This considered the declined loss of rent claim, 
and X being unhappy with the claim cover due to the freeholder (policyholder) being
underinsured. 
AXA said they didnt think the property was uninhabitable at any point, including 
when the local authority was due to bring the felled tree through Xs property. The response also commented on the extent of the temporary repairs that had been 
completed being sufficient, along with the back door being stuck. They also said that 
they thought the separate claim for a leak had been fairly declined, as it was due to 
age related wear and tear. 
AXA also noted X was unhappy with the proportion of the claim they werent 
including due to underinsurance, but as this was in relation to the freeholder and a 
separate complaint, they didnt comment on this further.
Additionally, AXA said they didnt think there had been a data protection breach, as 
the freeholder hadnt received the original final response of 27 March 2021. But AXA 
accepted some confusion had been caused.
However, AXA also recognised the first part of the complaint had been raised a 
considerable time beforehand, but hadnt been addressed by them, so they paid 
£600 compensation for this. And they paid £75 for the second part and confusion 
caused.
12 September 2022 final response  this said that AXA was satisfied the previous
complaint response of 9 September 2022 covered the points raised.
So, across the claim and complaints, AXA accepted things had gone wrong at points 
and paid a total of £1,125 compensation.
Xs complaints raised with this service
X said there were three main complaint points. Ive summarised these below.
Complaint one  X was given conflicting advice about who would be responsible for 
the temporary repairs and AXA caused delays. X also says the temporary repairs 
completed in October 2020 werent adequate.
Complaint two  the back door to Xs property became stuck in January 2021 and 
wasnt resolved by AXA, so X had to pay for this. There was also water ingress due 
to the temporary repairs not being adequate.
Complaint three  between April and July 2021 the local authority required the flat to 
be empty in order to remove the tree that had been felled.
X says as a result of all of the above, they lost rental income and want AXA to pay 
this.
Jurisdiction
When the complaint was first brought to us, AXA said some of the complaints it had
addressed had been brought to us too late and were therefore outside the jurisdiction 
of this service.
This is on the basis each of the final responses outlined X had six months from the 
date of that final response to bring the complaint to us, or AXA wouldnt give their 
permission for this service to consider matters which X had referred outside of these 
timescales.The six-month timescale is one of the rules this service must follow to be able to 
consider complaints, the full rules are outlined in the Financial Conduct Authority 
handbook, available on their website.
X brought the complaints to this service on 22 December 2022. As outlined above, 
AXA issued final responses on 27 March 2021, 24 and 25 June 2021, and 9 and 22 
September 2022.
So, of those final responses, only the final responses from September 2022 were 
brought to us within that six month period.
Our investigator said the main crux of the complaint was that X believed they were 
entitled to loss of rent payments along with other costs due to AXAs handling of 
matters.
AXAs final response of 22 September 2022 specifically dealt with the loss of rent 
claim, including reasons why it was declined. AXA also referred to previous points in 
the claim, which they say support their position. Our investigator said that whilst 
some of the individual complaint final responses were brought to this service too late, 
the 9 September 2022 final response revisited matters throughout the claim and the 
overall crux of the complaint. Therefore, he considered that this service was able to 
consider the overall claim and what had happened.
Im minded to agree with what our investigator said here, and for the same reasons. 
AXA hasnt challenged this further, so from my understanding they have also agreed 
with this and are no longer raising a jurisdiction challenge, and they agree this 
service can look into what happened during the claim. Therefore, Ill now go on to 
consider the merits of the complaint.
Loss of rent and the policy terms
Our investigator entered into lengthy discussions around whether X was able to let 
the property or not, and by extension whether loss of rent should be covered. Whilst 
this is partly relevant, I think an important point wasnt actually considered  before 
getting to those arguments.
The policy terms say:
What is covered
C.
loss of rent due to You which You are unable to recover
additional costs of alternative accommodation, substantially the same 
as Your existing accommodation, which You have to pay for.
while the Buildings cannot be lived in following loss or damage that is 
covered under Section One
To confirm, Section One includes subsidence, which is the relevant claimed event 
here. 
So, this says the policy covers either loss of rent due which is unrecoverable, or the 
costs which have to be paid to live elsewhere during the claim.
The second point isnt relevant here as X didnt have to pay for them, or a tenant, to 
live elsewhere. Ill focus on point one as thats the most relevant here.But there is an important point that doesnt seem to have been considered. The 
policy says loss of rent due to You. So, the starting point for a loss of rent claim to be 
covered is that the lost rent needs to have been due, and unrecoverable.
However, the tenant who was living at Xs property moved out in May 2020. The 
cracking to the property was then discovered after, reported to the freeholder, and all 
that has happened since stems from the claim that was then made.
But loss of rent only applies for rent due and unrecoverable. But there wasnt a 
tenant in situ when the subsidence was discovered. So, there wasnt any rent due or 
unrecoverable at that point.
X says that a new tenant was lined up to move in shortly after the first tenant 
vacated. X says paperwork had been signed, but they then didnt move in:
In June 2020 new tenants were supposed to move in  but cracking was 
noted to the building. Naturally they wanted to know the cause and what was 
going to happen before moving in.
However, there hasnt been any evidence provided, demonstrating a tenant was lined 
up and then withdrew. X says:
The tenants signed up to rent my property at £1350 per calendar month. 
However, their data has been deleted because they did not move in due to 
the cracks and uncertainty of what was happening.
Due to data protection, I didnt keep their personnel (sic) data any longer than
necessary, for the purpose it was obtained.
Without any evidence to support there was a tenant who was due to move in, or that
contracts had been drawn up to pay rent for a contracted period, how much and 
when this was, Im not persuaded its been demonstrated rent was due to X at that 
point. And in the absence of any rent being due, that part of the policy doesnt 
become operative by strict application of the terms.
However, X also argues that due to AXAs handling of matters, they were unable to 
let the property out either, so they say AXA has caused them to lose rent, by not 
being able to let out the property or obtain a tenant. Ill consider this separately.
Did AXAs claim handling result in a loss of rental income?
X argues that at set points, due to AXAs handling of matters, they were unable to let 
the property out. Ive focussed on the points I consider most relevant.
Structural stability
X says that after they reported the issue to the freeholder in June 2020, they didnt 
know anything further until September 2020 when the freeholder left a copy of the 
inspection report carried out, which didnt determine any structural safety issues.
X argues that until that point, they were concerned about the structural safety of the
property, so they couldnt let out the property. And therefore, they lost rent.
Whilst I note that the report wasnt provided directly to X following completion, it was 
the freeholders policy. They logged the claim, and they liaised with AXA. Whilst X was an interested party noted on the insurance policy, without involvement in the 
claim directly at that point, I dont think AXA acted unreasonably by not sending any 
reports directly to X.
Furthermore, I cant see that X contacted AXA directly about any concerns they had 
during this time either. I recognise X contacted the freeholder, but I cant hold AXA 
responsible for any updates the freeholder may or may not have given. And in any 
event, a tenant wasnt in the property during this time, so rent wasnt due.
Temporary works
AXA agreed to do temporary works to the cracking. I understand that there was some
confusion who would be responsible for the cost of this. This was later resolved, and 
X agreed for these works to be completed. This was with a view to letting the 
property out, as by that point, X was aware there were no structural safety issues.
AXA completed temporary works in October 2020, which included filling the cracks. X 
says these works werent completed sufficiently. This seems to be on the basis that 
redecoration wasnt included, and it was solely to fill the cracks. X later arranged for 
the walls to be sanded and painted, but says the property couldnt be let due to 
AXAs unsatisfactory repairs.
However, these works were only temporary measures. Whilst I can appreciate why X 
would have wanted the property to be fully redecorated, given the property was still in 
subsidence mitigation stages, there was a high likelihood the cracks would reappear 
whilst the property was still stabilising. This is why temporary works would be carried 
out, and final works including redecoration would be in the repair stages after the 
property was stable.
I wouldnt expect AXA to carry out full redecoration at that early stage, as they would 
need to keep repeating this whilst the property was stabilised as cracks would likely 
reappear. AXA did offer to carry out redecoration works outside normal temporary 
works, along with a contribution if required from X, but this would have been instead 
of them doing them at the end  which is all they would have been responsible for.
I dont think AXA acted unreasonably here. And the property was part way into a 
subsidence damage claim. Therefore, whilst cosmetically the decoration wouldnt 
have been to the standard of a property without issues, that is to be expected during 
a subsidence claim. I accept that this would make the property less desirable to a 
tenant, but equally moving into a property which is going through a subsidence claim, 
with likelihood of cracks reappearing is equally not as desirable, even if the 
decoration is fully redone. I dont think AXA did anything wrong here or that they are 
responsible for the loss of rent during this time.The stuck door
The back door became stuck in January 2021 and X reported this to AXA. X also 
says that due to the inadequacy of the works, the property suffered water ingress. X 
says that AXA failed to resolve this in a timely manner, and this was a health and 
safety issue, which resulted in the property not being able to be let out. As a result, X 
says AXA is responsible for the loss of rent here.
Ultimately X paid for the door to be planed, which enabled it to be freed and 
openable. AXA reimbursed this cost, albeit several months later.
However, I dont think this point is quite as straightforward as X alleges here  simply 
that AXA failed to act in a timely manner.
Firstly, X argues that this was a health and safety issue due to fire safety, which 
means the property was uninhabitable. However, it also appears from the file notes 
of a call with X at the time that they may have had a slightly different view then:
Discussion: explained the reason for the door being classed as a fire door, 
(name) dispute this because windows are available for jumping through.
I cant establish what was discussed with certainty either way, as it is a note of a call 
and AXAs interpretation of that call, rather than emails verbatim directly between the 
two parties.
But regardless of this, it does appear that AXA arranged for one of their contractors 
to attend and X was under the impression they would fix the door at that point. But X 
was also told they may need to scope for the works. The contractors then concluded 
it was a fire door and couldnt just be planed or fixed in that way. Instead, they said 
the door needed replacing.
However, due to the separate issue of underinsurance with the freeholder (and 
policyholder), which X wasnt party to, this meant a contribution was required from 
the freeholder to replace the door. But X says the freeholder didnt want to pay a 
contribution at that stage. X subsequently arranged for the door to be planed  and 
AXA reimbursed this, albeit some time later.
So, I dont think this is solely the fault of AXA. They arent acting unreasonably in 
relying on their contractors opinion that the door needs replacing and given its a fire 
door, I wouldnt expect AXA to ignore this and arrange works against guidance. And 
given the door was needing replacing, but due to underinsurance required a 
contribution which the freeholder didnt want to pay, I dont think there is much more 
that AXA could have done here.
I also need to take into account that the property wasnt tenanted before the door 
became stuck and wasnt after it was freed either. And I dont think AXA is solely 
responsible for delays after being reported. And any water ingress was intermittent, 
but a tenant wasnt in the property during that time either. So, Im not minded to direct 
AXA to pay X loss of rent on this basis.
Local authority
X also says the local authority insisted the property be vacant to remove the tree that 
was owned by them through Xs property. So, X says they couldnt rent the property 
out during that time, so loss of rent should be payable.Firstly, I havent seen any evidence from the local authority that shows they said the 
property needed to be untenanted. Whilst X has provided a telephone number for the 
local authority and says we can ask them for further information around the reasons 
because X doesnt know, its not our role to obtain the information on which X seeks 
to rely to support their argument.
So, I need to consider this argument on the information I do have. The tree was 
removed in the space of a single day, through Xs property. I can understand why a 
local authority may require a property to be empty on the day of the tree removal. But 
had tenants of been in the property, whilst inconvenient, I dont think its an 
unreasonable ask to leave the property empty for a day. Or if it was, then X may 
have been able to explore the policy cover for alternative accommodation.
But I dont think, on balance, X would be expected to leave a property empty and 
untenanted for several months in the lead up to the one-day removal of a tree. And in 
any event, evidence hasnt been provided to support this was a requirement by the 
local authority.
So, by strict application of the terms loss of rent isnt covered, as rent wasnt due for 
this period. And Im not persuaded the property couldnt be let out solely as a result 
of this either.
Therefore, I dont intend on directing AXA to pay for the equivalent rental income for 
this period either.
Furthermore, whilst focussing on some of the main arguments above, Ive also not 
seen any evidence to support that X actually attempted to rent out the property at any 
point during the claim. I also cant see that X tried to mitigate any issues with the fact 
the property was undergoing a subsidence claim to try to secure a tenant, such as by 
advertising at a lower amount, for example, either.
Our investigator also asked if X tried to let the property out during the claim and 
whether they consulted with any property professionals who advised on the 
prospects of being able to. X said:
Due to the pandemic, I did video viewings and most people wanted to know 
what the yellow stickers (level monitoring stickers) were and what was going 
on with the crack above the rear door and water ingress. After explaining the 
property is being monitored for subsidence and the crack and ingress was 
going to be sorted, they were still not interested. 
I self manage the property, always have done and never had a problem 
quickly finding a tenant.
X also said separately that theyd have been wasting their time doing viewings due to 
the condition of the property.
I dont think its been shown that either due to AXAs handling of matters, or the local
authority, that Xs property couldnt be let out. And I havent been provided with any 
evidence to support that X attempted to do so either. And I dont agree the property 
was uninhabitable or AXAs actions prevented the property being able to be let (or 
attempted to be let). So, Im not minded to direct AXA to pay loss of rent on this 
basis.Even if X did attempt to let the property out at any of the points in the claim, this 
would always have taken time for the new tenant to move in and start paying rent. 
Contracts would need to be drawn up and agreed, referencing and all the associated 
administration would also have been required too. And the tenant would have 
needed to be satisfied the property was undergoing a continued subsidence claim, 
and the rental price was reasonable for the inconvenience and disruption associated 
with that too.
But given the fact Ive not been provided with anything which supports renting the 
property was attempted, I cant conclude on balance that rent was due. And as I say, 
there was no rent due at the time the subsidence was reported either, so this part of 
the policy cover wouldnt apply. And Im not persuaded that X has shown either that 
the property was uninhabitable and couldnt be let (for the various reasons outlined 
above), or that they attempted to rent the property out but were unable to do so.  
Therefore, I dont think it would be reasonable to direct AXA to pay loss of rent 
outside of the strict application of the terms either.
The overall service and other points
AXA accepts the service fell short and this is why they paid a total of £1,125 
compensation. I dont intend to revisit each point where they did fall short, but Ive 
mentioned some of these where Ive summarised the final responses above, and I do 
agree the claim has been prolonged and taken time.
However, subsidence claims are complex and lengthy in nature even where nothing 
goes wrong, and no avoidable delays occur. It was further complicated here by X 
being an interested party, whose leasehold property was impacted, but X wasnt the 
policyholder, and the freeholder was instead. Both parties communicated with AXA 
separately about different points, and there were many different parties involved on 
behalf of AXA too, which will inevitably complicate matters.
But X also says that AXA has caused the claim to be longer than necessary, for 
example, by carrying out monitoring for an extended period. And X says this could 
have been concluded sooner on the basis the local authority said they would only 
need monitoring for a specific period in consideration of the tree removal, but AXA 
wanted to monitor for a further six months, and this also includes after the tree was 
removed.
Whilst I recognise what X says here, it isnt for the local authority to decide how long 
AXA, as the insurer, needs to monitor the property for. Instead, AXA need to be 
satisfied the property is stable in order to carry out a lasting and effective repair and 
its for them to decide at what point they have enough evidence to determine that. If 
the property isnt stabilised before permanent repairs are carried out and further 
movement occurs, then further repairs would be required, causing additional 
inconvenience and costs, which could be avoided if sufficient monitoring was carried 
out.
I do also need to note that from my understanding, X decided to remove and 
decorate over the monitoring studs which were required to be able to conclude the 
property was stable. This was at a point where monitoring was nearing completion, 
but additional readings were still required and X removing and decorating over these 
impacted things.And I also note that AXA was unable to gain access on the basis X was self-isolating 
and wouldnt agree to further visits until AXA had provided details and qualifications 
of parties involved in the claim. And AXA was also awaiting payment of the excess 
which hadnt been paid.
So, whilst AXA has caused some delays, and there are elements or poor claim 
handling, I cant hold them solely responsible for the overall timescale of the claim 
and everything that happened throughout. And overall, Im satisfied AXA has 
provided a reasonable level of compensation (totalling £1,125), so Im not intending 
to direct them to increase this.
X has also said they are unhappy with AXAs contractors diagnosis of the cause of a 
water leak, as they suggested obtaining expert reports and replacing the flat roof, but 
this wasnt necessary. As a result, X says they have been subjected to intellectual 
abuse. However, the suggestion was made on the basis it was thought to be an issue 
at the time, so suggestions were made accordingly, but in any event X didnt pay for 
a report or roof replacement so they havent been financially impacted as a result. 
And overall, Im satisfied AXA has already paid a reasonable amount of 
compensation across the claim and complaints.
X says they needed to have treatment and tests from a medical practitioner. X has 
provided invoices of the costs incurred.
However, for me to recommend AXA pay for medical treatment costs, Id needed to 
be persuaded this treatment was prescribed or directed by a medical professional, 
solely due to AXAs handling of matters, with evidence to support that. But nothing 
has been provided to show this. In the absence of evidence demonstrating this, Im 
not minded to direct AXA to reimburse those costs.
Therefore, for the reasons outlined above, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision
AXA didnt respond to the provisional decision by the deadline.
X responded to the provisional decision but they didnt agree. In response to the point about 
decorating over the monitoring studs and this impacting things, X said that AXA didnt 
specify a timescale in which they needed to remain in situ. X also said the property needed 
to be decorated as it had been vacant for some time, and because of water ingress and the 
tree being removed through the property.
In response to the point about AXA not being able to gain access, X said this hasnt been 
written in the context of the situation. X also said if any information has been provided by the 
freeholder, this should be discounted. X also said there is no mention of what they say are 
inaccurate file notes.
X said that I was correct in outlining it wasnt their policy and was instead the freeholders. 
So, they said the excess was the responsibility of the freeholder and they werent sure why 
this was being mentioned. X also said they werent provided with a copy of the original 
report, and this was sent to the freeholder instead, but AXA should have kept them updated. 
X also said the utility and council tax standing charges havent been considered.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional conclusions I reached, and the responses to 
my provisional decision. Having done so, and whilst I appreciate itll come as a 
disappointment to X, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision.
I note what X says about needing to decorate the property, decorating over the monitoring 
studs, AXA being unable to obtain access, and AXA needing payment of the excess. These 
points were mentioned in the provisional decision as some of the examples why I wasnt 
persuaded AXA were solely responsible for the duration the claim took. And for issues and 
delays AXA were responsible for, I was minded to conclude the compensation already paid 
was reasonable. And my final decision on the compensation remains the same, that AXA 
has already paid sufficient compensation so Im not going to direct them to increase it.
X says the freeholder was responsible for paying the excess, but they were asked for half. 
Whilst I note what X says here, information X provided also outlined the freeholder wasnt 
willing to pay this at the time. I cant hold AXA responsible if the freeholder was unwilling to 
pay the excess. I already considered that AXA sent the freeholder a copy of the report in my 
provisional decision, and my thoughts on that point remain the same as I outlined, and for 
the same reasons. And as I also mentioned, I cant hold AXA responsible for any information 
the freeholder did or didnt pass on to X at that time. 
X has also said there was no mention of what they say were inaccurate file notes. This 
relates to X disagreeing with the investigators findings, and the reason they reached the 
outcome they did, which was based on alleged contact with X about the stuck back door. 
However, these notes of alleged contact werent relevant in me reaching my provisional 
decision, as I didnt rely on those notes specifically like our investigator did. Instead, the 
reasons for the outcome I reached are outlined here, and those notes/alleged contact 
attempts with X do not form part of that reasoning. 
X also said the utility standing charges and council tax have been ignored. However, I dont 
think loss of rent is covered under the terms or needs to be paid outside policy cover for the 
reasons outlined in my provisional decision, and I also dont consider these charges to be 
payable by AXA on the same basis.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman