DRN-2135470
The complaint
Mrs N says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs N bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a store card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ns case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ns complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs N says PPI wasnt discussed when she took out the store card and she didnt 
know it had been added to her account. She doesnt dispute that she signed for the 
PPI, but she thinks she was told where to sign by the store assistant. So she doesnt 
consider AXA gave her a proper choice about buying the PPI. Ive noted everything 
Mrs N has said. 
Im mindful that these events took place over twenty years ago, and that exact 
recollections of what happened can fade over time. I accept its possible PPI wasnt 
discussed when Mrs N took out her store card, but its equally likely that it was  
although I can understand why Mrs N may no longer remember this, given the amount 
of time thats passed since the policy was sold. 
Without anything else to support what Mrs N has told me, I dont think it would be fair 
or reasonable for me to say that AXA didnt make her aware that the PPI was optional. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs N so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means Mrs N might have had to 
cover her repayments.
But even if AXA had recommended the PPI to Mrs N, it doesnt look as though it was 
unsuitable for her, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs N 
says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer, and that her parents wouldve 
helped her if she was off work. Shes also told me she was saving for a house.
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mrs Ns employer benefits and would do 
so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place wouldve meant Mrs N could use her 
employer benefits and savings to cover other expenses. And it wouldve meant she 
didnt have to rely on her family. So I think Mrs N wouldve had some use for the policy, 
despite her existing arrangements.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But its unlikely Mrs N would have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman