DRN-2344085
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his CreditExpert service with Experian Limited.
What happened
Mr B signed up to CreditExpert in 2008, and to pay for it he set up a continuous payment 
authority with his credit card.
In 2013, Experian increased the price of the service from £6.99 to £9.99 a month. They also 
added additional features. They sent Mr B an email about the price increase and new 
features. They later increased the price to £15.99 a month.
In 2014, Mr Bs credit card account was taken over by a different company with a different 
brand. His account carried on with the new company, and that company sent Experian the 
new card details so that his payments could continue.
Mr B is unhappy with the price increases. He especially feels that with the 2013 increase, 
Experian effectively ended the service hed signed up for and moved him to a separate 
service without his permission. He also feels that Experian were wrong to continue charging 
him when his credit card account changed branding. He explained that hed assumed the 
payments had automatically been cancelled as the card was with a new company.
Mr B would like to be refunded the difference between the price hes been paying for the 
CreditExpert service and the original £6.99 a month he signed up to in 2008.
Experian didnt feel theyd done anything wrong, but paid Mr B £125 as a goodwill gesture.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that, under the terms Mr B had agreed to, Experian were allowed to raise the price 
so long as they notified him  which they had. They explained that Mr B had given Experian 
a continuous payment authority which would carry on to the next card if his card expired or 
changed branding. They noted hed continued to use the service after 2014 and had not 
cancelled it. So they didnt think Experian needed to refund him.
Mr B didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Under the terms for CreditExpert, Experian were allowed to increase the price. This is quite 
normal  indeed, I would have been very surprised if the price had stayed exactly the same 
for well over a decade.
Experian did need to notify Mr B of the price change, but I can see that they did  both from 
their own records, and from the fact that Mr B forwarded on his notification to us.
I understand Mr B is particularly unhappy that the price increase came alongside new 
features added to his service. But Ive already established that Experian were allowed to 
increase the price, and that they did so within the terms and conditions that Mr B agreed to. 
Indeed, they were allowed to increase the price without adding any new features at all. So if 
I were to agree with Mr B that theyd done something wrong here, I could only say they were 
wrong to add the new features. But that doesnt seem right  I cant possibly say that it 
wouldve been more fair if Experian had increased Mr Bs price and added no new benefits 
at all. It seems perfectly reasonable that Experian gave him extra features. So on a fair and 
reasonable basis, I cant see that Experian did anything substantially wrong there.
I also appreciate that Mr B feels strongly that his service was cancelled and replaced with a 
different product in 2013. Hes pointed to the fact that Experian called it new in their 2013 
email. But while I understand his train of thought, I think this was just marketing  his service 
was new in the sense that it had been renewed and brought up to date. But it was still the 
same product, with the same name, under the same relationship, between the same parties, 
with the same base purpose  just with some extra features added on top.
So while Ive taken all of Mr Bs arguments on board, I dont agree that Experian did anything 
substantially wrong in changing the price or giving him new features.
When Mr B signed up for CreditExpert, he gave Experian a continuous payment authority 
using his card details. The way this authority worked was that Experian would get his new 
card details whenever his card got replaced. That way, Mr B wouldnt accidentally have his 
subscription cancelled if, for example, his card got lost or expired and had to be replaced.
So when Mr Bs credit card account was taken over by the new company, he was issued a 
new card. But it was still the same credit card account, and the authority that Mr B had given 
Experian was still in place. So the new company gave Experian the new card details  as 
they wouldve done for his other payment authorities, to make sure that Mr B didnt lose out 
by having his subscriptions accidentally cancelled by the branding change.
It follows that I dont think Experian did anything wrong in continuing to take payments from 
Mr Bs credit card account. Hed given them the authority to do so in 2008, and I dont think 
that the later change of branding was relevant in this regard.
Lastly, from what both parties have told me, I understand that Mr B continued to use his 
CreditExpert service after this point. So he was aware that he still had this service and that it 
had not automatically been cancelled. And it certainly wouldnt be fair for me to tell Experian 
to refund Mr B for a service that he used and didnt cancel.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman