DRN-3503297
The complaint
Mr F claims that Nationwide Building Society failed to protect him from losing money to an 
investment scam. 
For the purposes of this decision, all reference to Mr F includes his representative. 
What happened
Mr F received a considerable amount of compensation because of a car accident he was 
involved in and wanted to invest some of the funds to make profit. After some research, Mr F 
joined International Market Live Inc (IM). Mr F paid this firm to provide educational content 
and interactive training on how to successfully trade on the online financial markets. 
During his time with IMs academy, Mr F decided to trade his money. This was carried out 
via a platform provided by a separate company, IC Markets (EU) Ltd. Over the course of 
several months, Mr F deposited a total of approximately £155,000 with IC Markets, which 
was used to trade in the contract for differences (CFD) market. Mr F says that he was 
convinced by the representatives of IM that his investments would prove very profitable. 
However, in the end he lost all but a fraction of what he paid in. 
At which point, Mr F raised a complaint with Nationwide, citing that it ought to have 
recognised the risk of financial harm that this scheme posed. He thought Nationwide ought 
to have warned him about the risks of IM and its practices, together with taking further steps 
to protect the account from trading on high risk ventures such as CFDs. Especially, given the 
health conditions he has following the accident he was involved in, which he says somewhat 
impairs his cognitive ability. 
Nationwide rejected the complaint. It said that it did question some of the payments that Mr F 
instructed, but he provided reassurances that he had authorised the transactions. It wasnt 
aware that the injuries Mr F had sustained meant he was incapable of managing his financial 
affairs. Plus, Nationwide judged that both IM and IC Markets were not regarded as 
fraudulent according to the official information available to it.    
Mr F brought the matter to our service and, having considered everything, one of our 
investigators agreed with Nationwides position. He concluded that Nationwide should not be 
held liable in the circumstances. 
Because Mr F disagrees with this outcome, the case has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I recognise that Mr F was involved in an accident and I understand that he 
suffered long term injuries. I dont doubt that this must have caused a very difficult time for 
him and his family. 
Even so, its not evident that Nationwide were put on notice of any incapacity Mr F might 
have to manage his finances. On the contrary, everything suggests Mr F was able to make 
his own choices in matters relating to his money. Accordingly, Ive reached my findings on 
the basis that it would be unfair to expect Nationwide to have factored Mr Fs health into its 
decision making when it was not aware of such circumstances.   
relevant considerations
The relevant legislation, plus various principles of good practice, make it clear that banks do
have a duty to protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams.
Also, as a firm regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), Nationwide has a 
regulatory obligation to counter the risk that its accounts might be used to further financial 
crime.
Still, this must be balanced with Nationwides other duties. Theres a provision that delaying 
a payment instruction could lead to a breach of the Payment Services Regulations 2017
(PSRs), which set requirements for the timing of payments such as the ones that Mr F made
to IM and IC Markets. Whats more, while the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would 
not necessarily constitute unauthorised investment advice, in circumstances such as these, 
there is a general prohibition that Nationwide should not be providing investment advice 
pertaining to where a consumer should choose to invest (or not invest) their money.
In other words, its possible that Nationwide could have warned Mr F about the dangers of 
falling victim to investment fraudsters, without providing him investment advice. But these
obligations should only reasonably have been engaged under the PSRs if there were
sufficient grounds for suspecting the payees (i.e. IM and IC Markets) were fraudsters; 
meaning that Nationwide could have delayed the payments while concerns about these 
payees were discussed with Mr F. Hence, why I would need to be satisfied that IM and/or   
IC Markets were operating scams when these payments were made in order to expect 
Nationwide to have done anything further here. 
IC Markets (EU) Ltd & International Market Live Inc (IM)
I turn first to IC Markets. When Mr F made the disputed payments, this CFD provider was 
authorised and regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySEC) 
and continues to be so now. Suffice to say, illegitimate or illegal firms set up with the 
intention of scamming consumers are highly unlikely to submit themselves to regulatory 
oversight. The evidence demonstrates that Mr F executed trades on this platform and he did 
so at his sole discretion. To that end, Im satisfied theres strong evidence IC Markets wasnt 
operating a scam and provided the services Mr F paid it to by facilitating investment trades.
IM is an entirely different entity. I understand that representatives of this business act as a 
point of contact to new members, all of which is designed to grow the business and 
encourage more consumers to sign up. The money that Mr F paid IM was seemingly subject 
to the agreement that he would be provided with training material and other educational 
content. 
So, unlike the deposits Mr F made with IC Markets, he was not engaging in an actual 
investment or carrying out trades; IM is not permitted to carry out such financial activity.Mr F was apparently happy with his initial interactions with IM and theres no question that 
he was provided with training and instructive material regarding CFD trading. Indeed, at first 
Mr F says he made a good profit as a result of the training. I accept that IMs ambassadors 
may have used sales methods, or communication styles that were seen to be unfair. 
Especially, when considering the substantial financial losses Mr F incurred on the 
investments he made with IC Markets that were allegedly promoted by IMs agents. 
Be that as it may, I am not satisfied that Nationwide ought to have taken further steps on 
account of suspecting IM was a scam. While the ways and means of this business might 
have been viewed as unreasonable or even unethical  that doesnt necessarily mean it 
amounted to the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud. This is reinforced by the 
external insight that was available to Nationwide at the time. The FCA and other powers 
regard the use of industry intelligence as critical to detecting and preventing investment 
fraud. The most prominent official watchlists that publish warnings about merchants that 
operate in the UK and abroad do not record notices about IM being fraudulent (they only 
notify that it is not permitted to carry out certain financial services, as Ive explained above).
There was the inevitable risk of Mr Fs investments returning a deficit, based on market 
performance. But as Ive explained, Nationwide isnt required to protect its consumers from 
the risk of financial loss due to investment advice/choices, or bad bargains. For the same 
reason, I find it unreasonable to hold Nationwide accountable for Mr Fs decision to act on 
the content he was presented by IM in an attempt to make a profit.
Besides, on occasion Nationwide did intervene with payments Mr F instructed to both IM and 
IC Markets, which Mr F confirmed as genuine and that he was happy to proceed as 
intended. Not only that, we know that Mr F had some separate trading experience  its 
evident that he sent at least two payments to another crypto exchange around the same time 
as these disputed transactions. All of which, leads me to believe that there were sufficient 
grounds for Nationwide to be assured that Mr F was not subject to a scam. 
So, in conclusion, its my decision that Nationwide should not be held liable for these 
payments  or Mr Fs loss that ensued  as I am not satisfied they amounted to fraud. It 
follows that I do not necessitate it to do anything beyond what it has already for this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman