DRN-2872644
The complaint
Ms B complains that Citywide Financial Partners Ltd provided her with inappropriate advice 
about her provisions for retirement.
What happened
Ms B was introduced to Citywide in September 2017 by one of its existing clients. In the 
initial meeting she explained that she had resigned from full time work and her notice period 
ended the following day. She told Citywide that she intended selling a buy to let property 
that she owned and wanted its advice on how to best invest the proceeds from the sale to 
provide an income for her retirement.
The sale of the property didnt complete until the following June. But in the interim Citywide 
met twice more with Ms B to firm up its recommendations about her future investments. It 
then met again with Ms B following the sale of the property to agree the implementation of its 
recommendation. At that meeting, Ms B advised that she required an increase to her 
planned annual income, so Citywide subsequently sent her some updated cashflow 
forecasts, although its recommendations remained unchanged.
Ms B took out three products that were all held in an investment wrapper with a third-party 
provider. She held an Individual Savings Account (ISA), a Personal Investment Plan (PIP) 
and a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). The funds in all three products were invested 
in line with a model portfolio developed by Citywide  the Citywide 40 Portfolio. Ms B agreed 
to pay an annual fee (charged monthly) to Citywide for its ongoing management of her 
investments.
In September 2019 Ms B told the wrapper provider that she no longer wished Citywide to 
provide servicing for her investments. When Citywide was told about that request it wrote to 
Ms B to let her know that the agreement she signed required her to provide three months 
notice of the termination of the agreement. So it told her that she remained liable for a further 
three months servicing fees, and that it would continue to provide her with support during 
that notice period.
Ms B has said that her complaint covers five main areas;
It is based on a model portfolio rather than something specific to her needs
It has no reference to her primary objective that is income
It has charges that are more expensive because of the platform
It has a risk level that is too high
The portfolio is more complicated than she needs
Ms B s complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the 
recommendations Citywide made had been suitable for Ms Bs circumstances. The advice 
met Ms Bs needs for income during her retirement and appeared to be appropriate for the 
attitude to risk that Citywide had assessed. He didnt agree that the inclusion of the three 
investment vehicles had increased the costs for Ms B, or that they introduced unwarranted 
complexity into her portfolio. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld, or that 
Citywide needed to pay Ms B any compensation.
Ms B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Ms B and by Citywide. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I have looked carefully at the documentation that Citywide produced before Ms B accepted 
its recommendation in November 2017 and invested her funds in June 2018. These primarily 
consist of a recommendation report produced in November 2017, and lengthy records of the 
meetings it held with Ms B in September, October and November 2017, and in June 2018. 
I can also see that Citywide continued to meet with Ms B after the investments had been 
made, with it providing records from meetings in August 2018 and January 2019.
It seems to me that Citywide went to great lengths to understand Ms Bs financial situation 
and her income needs in retirement. I can see that over the course of her discussions with 
Citywide, Ms B revised the amount of income she wanted each year. And as a result of that 
change, Citywide provided her with new projections showing the pressure that taking those 
levels of income might place on her retirement savings. But, that doesnt mean that the 
advice Citywide gave to Ms B was incorrect.
The majority of Ms Bs pension savings were placed into what Citywide called a Personal 
Investment Plan. That vehicle was designed to allow Ms B to take money from the plan, 
either from the income generated by her investments or by liquidating some of the capital 
assets, to meet her needs in retirement. That solution is a common approach to situations 
such as that presented by Ms B where the capital being used is outside tax efficient 
wrappers such as an ISA or pension plan. It allowed funds to be withdrawn utilising capital 
gains allowances, rather than creating an income tax liability. I dont think that was an 
unreasonable approach for Citywide to propose.But Citywides advice also took advantage of some tax efficiencies that were open to Ms B. It 
recommended that she included an ISA within her portfolio, and that she added funds to the 
ISA from the PIP to utilise her allowance each year. And Citywide also suggested that Ms B 
open a SIPP to take advantage of tax relief that would be added to pension contributions 
again funded by withdrawals from her PIP. And I think it important to note that the provider of 
the investment wrapper didnt make a separate charge for each investment account. Ms B 
paid a single charge regardless of the products she held. So Citywides recommendation 
that she took a SIPP and an ISA, in addition to the PIP, didnt result in her facing higher 
costs.
During its initial meetings with Ms B, Citywide assessed her attitude to risk. That assessment 
determined that Ms B had a risk profile in the medium range. Each of Ms Bs investments 
were placed into the same Citywide fund  the fund that was recommended was 
Citywide 40. That fund held around 60% of the investment in fixed income bonds, with the 
remainder spread across equity and property investments. I think that would be suitable for a 
consumer exhibiting a similar risk profile to Ms B. And I have noted that Ms B asked Citywide 
whether she should instead utilise its Citywide 60 fund to increase her returns. Citywide 
advised against that approach as the fund carried too high a risk for Ms Bs situation. I think 
that was also reasonable advice to give.
Citywide has shown that it also considered other options to provide Ms B with the income 
she required in retirement. Ms B said she had no need to leave any of her estate to other 
beneficiaries  so that might suggest a conventional annuity product might have been 
suitable for her. But Citywides research showed that the amount of capital available to Ms B 
would be insufficient to purchase an annuity providing income at the level she required.
So on balance I think that Citywides advice to Ms B was appropriate. It took account of her 
specific circumstances and provided the means for Ms B to meet her stated income needs in 
retirement. By also advising Ms B to open an ISA and a SIPP she was able to take account 
of tax efficiencies at no additional cost. And the investments Citywide recommended across 
all three accounts appear to have been suitable for Ms Bs measured attitude to risk.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Citywide Financial Partners Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman