DRN-3029192
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 
2003 and 2008. Mr and Mrs G say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them PPI. Although the 
mortgage taken out in 2003 and the further advance taken out in 2008 were joint mortgages, 
the PPI was set up just to cover Mr G for accident, sickness and unemployment.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Gs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Lloydss offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr and Mrs G paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen copies of the paperwork for both 2003 
and 2008. On both mortgage application forms there were yes and no boxes to either 
select or decline PPI. Mr and Mrs G have ticked the yes box to request PPI. They then 
completed a separate PPI application form to confirm that they wanted the policy. The 
mortgage application forms make it clear that an applicant did not need to take out any 
insurance via Lloyds. On balance I consider that Mr and Mrs G would have been aware 
that the policies were not a condition of the lending.
The PPI was sold in branch at the same times as the mortgage and further advance 
were arranged. I can see from the paperwork that a demands and needs questionnaire 
was completed each time, which shows that Lloyds advised them to buy the PPI. As 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time, shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for Mr G. For example Mr G was eligible 
for the cover and had limited means to fall back on, so the couple had a need for cover.
There was nothing about Mr Gs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim and in fact Mr G did make a successful claim for unemployment 
in 2011/12. Although Mr G says he had some medical conditions some time before the 
policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have recommended it. I say 
this because Mr G has mentioned a few one-off conditions that he had in his youth, the 
last one being in 1961, some 42 years before the first sale and he appears to have been 
in good health ever since. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental 
health and/or back problems.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover for Mr G. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and 
Mrs G as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were 
buying from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it 
seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I 
dont think Mr and Mrs G would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs G would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Gs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Gs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs G about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in 
this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr and Mrs G was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Lloyds didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs G because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs G should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr and Mrs G about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshiptaken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr 
and Mrs G in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level 
of commission to them before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Gs representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr and Mrs G paid for their PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr and 
Mrs G with the policy Ive concluded above they would still have taken out if Lloyds had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloydss payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As Lloyds has already paid Mr and Mrs G compensation on this basis, I dont consider it 
should do anything further. 
my decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Mr and Mrs G an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). 
As Lloyds Bank PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that it 
should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman