DRN-4269892
The complaint
Mr R has complained that an advisory firm, subsequently purchased by Capital Professional 
Limited (trading as Ascot Lloyd) failed to advise him to delay a withdrawal from his self-
invested personal pension (SIPP), resulting in his having to use a higher proportion of his 
standard lifetime allowance than wouldve been the case, had he waited until the following 
tax year. Mr R says he now potentially faces a higher lifetime allowance charge in future.
What happened
In February 2009, Capital Professional Limited (referred to from hereon as Capital 
Professional) advised Mr R that he could withdraw a quarter of his SIPP value as a pension 
commencement lump sum and generate a taxable income with the remaining three quarters. 
In doing so, Mr R would use up 37.25% of his standard lifetime allowance.
Mr R went ahead with the withdrawal in early 2009, prior to the end of the 2008/09 tax year. 
Mr Rs SIPP provider subsequently confirmed his pension commencement lump sum 
payment and taxable income withdrawal had indeed used up 37.25% of his standard lifetime 
allowance.
The standard lifetime allowance for 2008/09, the tax year when Mr R initiated the pension 
withdrawal, was set at £1,650,000. For the tax year ending 5 April 2010, the standard 
lifetime allowance was set at £1,750,000.
In late 2012 the Government announced a new scheme starting on 6 April 2014 under which 
the standard lifetime allowance would reduce. Those impacted by the scheme were eligible 
to apply for, amongst other things, a certificate for/of fixed protection, which would allow 
them to avoid certain charges on a protected fixed value in their pension benefits. On 13 
May 2014, HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) issued Mr R with a certificate for fixed 
protection 2014, confirming his entitlement to a lifetime allowance of either £1,500,000 or the 
standard lifetime allowance, whichever was greater.
On 26 November 2021, Mr R complained to Capital Professional saying it shouldve been 
aware of the impending increase in the standard lifetime allowance and, as such, shouldve 
advised him to delay his withdrawal request until after 6 April 2009. Had Capital Professional 
done so, Mr R said he wouldve only need to used 35.13% of his standard lifetime allowance 
in the tax year ending 2010, as opposed to the actual 37.25% he used of the previous years 
allowance. 
Using his fixed protection value of £1,500,000 as a benchmark, Mr R calculated that the 
2.12% difference between the two percentage figures given above equated to £31,800. He 
complained that this meant that, were he ever to exceed his lifetime allowance, he could 
face an additional lifetime allowance charge on this sum (although this calculation doesnt 
appear to account for tax).
Capital Professional responded to Mr Rs complaint stating it had been made too late to 
consider it, and so Mr R brought his complaint to this Service. An ombudsman considered 
the timeliness of Mr Rs complaint and concluded it had been made in time for this Service to 
consider the merits of the complaint. It was then allocated to our investigator to give an initial 
finding on the merits.
Our investigator requested further information and Mr R confirmed that he had held three 
personal pension plans, and that by 30 April 2021 he had utilised 45.75% of his available 
lifetime allowance (incorporating the 37.25% used in 2009), meaning 54.25% remained 
available to him. Although the standard lifetime allowance had decreased by this point, due 
to Mr Rs certificate for fixed protection 2014, his allowance remained at £1,500,000. Thus, 
54.25% represented an unused allowance of £813,750.
Mr R also confirmed that his SIPP was valued at £1,204,148 on 21 December 2022. Of this, 
£871,719 was crystallised (i.e., it was the residual fund that was used to generate the tax-
free lump sum and taxable income in 2009) and £332,429 remained uncrystallised (i.e., 
funds which have yet to be used for a withdrawal and so have not been tested against the 
lifetime allowance).
During the course of our investigators review of Mr Rs case, the Chancellor announced 
plans in the 2023 budget to remove the lifetime allowance. (Some residual implications may 
impact the amount of tax-free cash that can be taken by a small group of consumers, but Mr 
R does not fall within that group).
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Rs complaint, reasoning that Mr R hadnt incurred a 
lifetime allowance charge and was unlikely to do so based on the value of his pension 
benefits compared to his remaining lifetime allowance. Furthermore, following the 
Chancellors announcement, an excess charge for exceeding the lifetime allowance would 
no longer be applied in any case.
Mr R disagreed. He said his pension was invested for growth, and it was possible this growth 
could exceed the standard projection rates used by the industry and relied upon by our 
investigator. Mr R also noted that the Chancellors plans to abolish the lifetime allowance 
were not yet in place, and even once fully implemented the potential remained for a lifetime 
allowance to be reinstated in some form or another. In summary, Mr R felt that he was at risk 
of future detriment, and that this risk wouldve been avoided if Capital Professional had 
advised a delay in arranging the pension withdrawal.
As the parties could not agree, the matter has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regarding jurisdiction, I agree that this complaint has been brought in time, and Im not 
planning to revisit the timeliness arguments made in the previous jurisdiction decision. 
However, for clarity I note that the jurisdiction decision refers to Ascot Lloyd Financial 
Services Limited, when in fact the respondent business is Ascot Lloyd (as a trading style of 
Capital Professional Limited). Capital Professional has since confirmed it accepts 
responsibility for the original advice, hence why this decision refers to Capital Professional.
As such, I will now turn to the merits of this complaint. It is true that, with a brief delay, Mr R 
wouldve been able to undertake the same transactions but wouldve used a slightly smaller 
proportion of his standard lifetime allowance to do so. However, that doesnt mean that 
Capital Professional shouldve necessarily advised him to delay. At the time the advice was given, the standard lifetime allowance had risen every year since 
it was first implemented, and it wouldnt have been reasonable to expect Capital 
Professional to have predicted a reversal to this position several years in the future. The 
percentage of the allowance Mr R lost by not delaying his transactions was relatively small 
and wouldve been easily eclipsed by future increases, had the lifetime allowance continued 
to follow the pattern seen prior to that point. 
Furthermore, the entire value of Mr Rs SIPP was only a little over a third of the standard 
lifetime allowance at that time, so he already had a large margin available to him. And, 
although Mr Rs SIPP was not his sole pension fund, it was by far his largest holding. (I 
understand that two other funds were used to purchase annuities, and represented only 
3.27% and 5.23% of his total lifetime allowance usage of 45.75% by 30 April 2021.) So, 
taking into account the reasonable assumption of continued yearly increases to the lifetime 
allowance, there was no reasonable prospect of Mr Rs exceeding his allowance.
As such, I dont think that Capital Professional gave Mr R unsuitable advice. Based on 
information available at the time, no substantive benefit or risk to mitigate wouldve been 
apparent to justify a recommendation that Mr R delay drawing benefits from his pension.
If Capital Professional didnt give unsuitable advice, there can be no detriment to Mr R 
resulting from it. However, even had I found the advice unsuitable, Mr R has suffered no loss 
here. He has not incurred a lifetime allowance charge, nor has he had to change his financial 
plans in order to avoid one.
In fact, Mr Rs complaint relates solely to the possibility of future loss, and I cannot see any 
prospect of such loss at present. As stated above, the value of Mr Rs SIPP is far lower than 
his unused allowance. So, even if he were to crystalise all the remaining funds in his SIPP, 
he would not incur a charge.
Furthermore, the lifetime allowance  such as it pertains to Mr R  is being removed 
(permanently, to the best of our knowledge) and no future charges will be applied. Mr R has 
said we cannot know what further schemes or rules may be introduced in the future, but  
while this is true  I cannot factor unknown, unquantifiable future events into my current 
findings.
In summary, I dont think Capital Professional gave Mr R unsuitable advice by failing to 
recommend that he delay his pension withdrawals. And, even if it had, I dont think that Mr R 
has suffered a loss, or  based on the best available information at the time of writing  that 
he is likely to suffer a loss in future.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint or making any award against Capital Professional Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Ellie Clare
Ombudsman
