DRN-2397040
The complaint
Mrs J complains that FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford Credit Europe irresponsibly approved a 
hire purchase agreement that she couldnt afford.   
What happened
In February 2019, Mrs J acquired a new car from a dealership. The cash price of the car was 
around £36,600. She part-exchanged her existing car for £2,000 and paid an additional 
£2,000 deposit using her credit card. The remainder of the cash price was financed using an 
interest free hire purchase agreement from FCE Bank. Mrs J was required to make 38 
monthly repayments of around £450 followed by a final optional payment of around £15,500. 
In December 2019, Mrs J voluntarily terminated the agreement and handed the car back to 
FCE Bank because she couldnt afford it. This left a shortfall of just under £10,000 for her to 
repay. She says that FCE Bank told her shed need to pay this within 28 days or they would 
default the account. Mrs J felt this was unfair and said that she should never have been 
given the agreement in the first place. She didnt think FCE Bank had completed appropriate 
affordability checks. 
FCE Bank responded to say that Mrs J had met their lending criteria based on the 
information she provided during the application and after completing a credit check. It said 
for this reason it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She didnt think FCE Bank had 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. She said that the information it 
had recorded about Mrs Js income wasnt right and that if theyd attempted to verify this and 
requested details of her expenditure it would likely have discovered the agreement wasnt 
affordable to Mrs J. Further, she said that FCE Bank hadnt adequately taken into 
consideration the large amount of unsecured debt she had elsewhere when considering 
affordability. 
Mrs J agreed with our investigator but FCE Bank didnt. In summary, it said that Mrs J had 
declared an income of around £3,400 per month and this was verified by the dealership by 
looking at a copy of Mrs Js payslip. It said the finance wouldnt have been approved without 
the dealership confirming it had verified the income. It said that other than a mortgage and a 
loan, the credit check didnt show that Mrs J had any other credit commitments and therefore 
it wasnt aware of the other unsecured debt she held at the time. 
Because FCE Bank didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set 
out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. 
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are: 
1. Did FCE Bank complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs J would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs J could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did FCE Bank act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Did FCE Bank complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs J 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, FCE Bank were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mrs Js ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often referred to as an 
affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Mrs J could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering her 
specific circumstances), rather than how statistically likely she was to repay. The latter, is the 
risk posed to FCE Bank as the lender, or its credit risk but this is not necessarily the same 
as an assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to:
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances. 
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
After taking into account the deposit, Mrs J was required to repay over £32,000 to FCE Bank 
with monthly repayments of around £450. While the agreement was interest free, this was 
still a relatively large amount of credit with sizeable monthly repayments. Further, FCE Bank 
were aware these repayments were larger than Mrs Js monthly mortgage repayments, so 
taking her individual circumstances into account this was a significant financial commitment 
for her. I therefore think a reasonable and proportionate assessment of affordability ought to 
have been fairly thorough. 
FCE Bank says it asked Mrs J about her income and says she declared this to be £3,400. In 
response to the investigators assessment it said that it didnt seek to verify this itself, 
however, it says the dealership would have done this on their behalf by reviewing a payslip. 
I note FCE Bank hasnt been able to provide the copy of the payslip it says was provided. 
Mrs J has provided us with the copy of her payslip that the dealership appears to have seen. 
This shows that her income was actually around £2,300 (including some benefits she 
received), which is also supported by copies of her bank statements that Ive reviewed. So on balance, Im persuaded that the dealership wasnt presented with a payslip that showed 
Mrs J earned £3,400. It seems it wasnt possible for her to have demonstrated this level of 
income. 
This leads me to conclude that either FCE Bank or the dealership on its behalf entered 
incorrect information about Mrs Js income during the application process. In any event, its 
clear FCE didnt do enough to verify the income that was stated on the application form. 
I think given the amount of borrowing and the size of the repayments, it would have been 
proportionate and reasonable for FCE Bank to have done so. 
FCE bank says it completed a credit check which showed that Mrs J was responsible for 
mortgage repayments of around £300 per month and a personal loan with repayments of 
£500 per month. It hasnt provided us with a copy of the check it carried out but says that no 
other credit commitments were shown. However, Im not persuaded thats the case, and 
even it was I dont think an adequate check was carried out. 
I say this because Mrs J has provided her credit report from the same credit reference 
agency that FCE Bank says it used. This shows that at the time of the application she had 
five credit card accounts. These accounts had a combined credit limit in excess of £42,000. 
At the time of the application Mrs J owed over £30,000 across these credit cards. As part of 
its affordability assessment FCE Bank ought to have taken into consideration sustainable 
repayments towards these debts, taking into account the total amount of debt Mrs J could be 
in if she had borrowed up to the credit limit on all of these credit cards. 
As FCE Bank dont appear to have done this or sought to get a reasonable understanding of 
Mrs Js other committed expenditure, I dont think it carried out reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks before lending. I note the application says Mrs J declared around £430 
as her committed expenditure, but this clearly couldnt have been right based on the credit 
commitments Mrs J had at the time. FCE Bank needed to do much more in the 
circumstances before agreeing to lend. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs J could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
Its not clear exactly what further questions or evidence FCE Bank would have asked for had 
it sought to adequately verify Mrs Js income and find out more about her committed monthly 
expenditure. In the absence of anything else, Ive reviewed copies of Mrs Js bank 
statements in the months leading up to the application as well as her credit file. Im not 
suggesting FCE Bank were required to check her bank statements, but I think these give me 
a good indication of what information it would have likely found out about her financial 
circumstances if it had completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. 
As Ive set out above, Mrs Js income was much lower than FCE Bank had recorded. For 
clarity, Im not persuaded that Mrs J gave this incorrect figure based on how FCE Bank have 
described the application process. I think its likely that FCE Bank would have also 
discovered Mrs J was actually earning around £2,300 per month if it had sought to 
adequately verify her income. 
FCE Bank already accepts it was aware that Mrs J was committed to paying around £800 
per month towards a personal loan and mortgage. In addition, I think it ought to have known 
about the credit card accounts she held too. She had access to a substantial amount of 
borrowing, much of which shed already drawn down. FCE Bank ought to have considered 
what sustainable monthly repayments towards the credit card debts would likely be if she 
had maxed out the credit limits. As this would adequately demonstrate whether she could comfortably meet her existing commitments as well as the proposed hire purchase 
agreement. 
It seems her minimum monthly payments on these credit cards at the time exceeded £500 
per month. However, Mrs J still had access to over £10,000 in additional credit on these 
cards which she could have utilised at any time. Had she done so, her minimum repayments 
would have been much higher still. However, its clear that paying just the minimum payment 
each month isnt a sustainable way to repay a revolving credit facility. A sustainable 
repayment is likely to be much larger. But even using the minimum payments Mrs J was 
making at the time, her existing credit commitments came to around £1,300. Once the hire 
purchase agreement repayments are taken into account, Mrs J would be left with less than 
£550 each month to meet other essential costs. 
This would have included: food for a family of four, travel, council tax, utilities, insurances, 
her communications accounts (which were also visible on her credit file) and other 
household essentials and childcare costs as well as the ongoing costs of maintaining and 
running the car she was acquiring under the hire purchase agreement. Clearly this wouldnt 
have left her with enough to meet all of her existing essential expenditure, let alone make 
sustainable repayments towards her existing revolving credit commitments. This is further 
supported by the fact the Mrs J attempted to return the car so soon after entering into the 
agreement explaining that she couldnt afford the repayments. 
Taking all of this into account, its clear that if FCE Bank had completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks it would most likely have found that Mrs J couldnt 
sustainably afford the hire purchase agreement. It therefore now needs to put things right.
Did FCE Bank act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Mrs J says that FCE Bank insisted that she pay them nearly £10,000 within 28 days of her 
voluntarily terminating the agreement. She said that they told her they would register a 
default with credit reference agencies if she didnt. Given that Mrs J told FCE Bank the 
reason she was terminating was because she couldnt afford the agreement, I think it was 
unreasonable of it to insist on full repayment. 
However, I note that FCE Bank did hold off on registering any adverse information for over a 
year while her complaint was being looked into, so despite what it may have told Mrs J, it did 
ultimately act reasonably. 
Mrs J says that it was reporting an incorrect balance on her credit file. Her credit file showed 
that her outstanding liability after termination was over £28,000, not the circa £10,000 figure 
it should have been. She asked FCE Bank on several occasions to correct this figure. She 
says they told her that they accepted it was showing incorrectly but wouldnt correct it until a 
final decision was issued by an ombudsman at this service. FCE Bank appears to have said 
something similar to our investigator. 
I dont think that was a particularly helpful or reasonable stance to take. Its clear the 
information being recorded on Mrs Js credit file was incorrect and I do think FCE Bank could 
and should have corrected it. However, Im mindful that under the circumstances it would 
have been entitled to have recorded the account in default too given how long it had been 
since Mrs J had made any payment, and it didnt do this until very recently. The default 
would have impacted Mrs Js credit file more adversely than the incorrect balance. 
Overall, while I think FCE Bank could have responded better to the concerns Mrs J had 
raised, taking everything into consideration Im not persuaded its actions caused a significant detriment to her. This is because the information it did report, while not accurate, was more 
favourable to her than if it had reported the true repayment position of the account.
  
Putting things right
Mrs J has already voluntarily terminated the agreement, having made the monthly 
repayments for the time she had use of and access to the car. However, shes not made any 
further payments since. Given Mrs J did have use of the car during that time, I think its fair 
she pays for that use. As the agreement was interest free, I think its fair that FCE Bank 
retains the full monthly payments for the time she had the car. However, it should end the 
agreement with nothing further to pay. 
Mrs J paid a £4,000 deposit on top of the monthly payments she made. As I think the 
monthly repayments adequately cover her fair usage of the car, FCE Bank should refund the 
deposit she paid in full, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date she paid the 
deposit to the date of settlement. 
Lastly, Mrs Js credit file has now been impacted as FCE Bank has now recorded a default. 
It has also recorded that Mrs J voluntarily terminated the agreement. Neither of these things 
would have happened if FCE Bank had carried out reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. I dont therefore think its fair for her credit file to be impacted by 
FCE Banks error. Given how soon Mrs J opted terminate the agreement, I think it would be 
reasonable for FCE Bank to remove the agreement entirely from her credit file.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct FCE Bank Plc trading as 
Ford Credit Europe to:
End the finance agreement with nothing further to pay.
Refund the £4,000 deposit Mrs J paid, adding 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Remove the agreement entirely from Mrs Js credit file. 
If FCE Bank considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award, it 
should provide Mrs J with a certificate showing how much its taken off so she can reclaim 
that amount, assuming she is eligible to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman