DRN-3391236
The complaint
Mr T complains about Great Lakes Insurance SEs decision to decline cover for a claim he 
made for subsidence on a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T insured his home with Great Lakes. In 2018, shortly after buying the property, he 
noticed cracks and informed Great Lakes. It appointed a surveyor who concluded that the 
likely cause of the cracks was subsidence due to clay shrinkage, caused by a tree owned by 
the local authority.
The damage to Mr Ts property was relatively minor and the cost of repairing this was 
assessed as being less than the £1000 policy excess applicable for subsidence claims. Mr T 
arranged for contractors to carry out the works recommended by Great Lakes surveyor.
In 2021, Mr T noticed further cracks to the property. By this time, hed changed insurers, and 
the property was now insured by a business Ill refer to as F. Mr T contacted F who said it 
considered the damage was a continuation of the previous issue and so Great Lakes should 
be liable for the further repairs.
Mr T contacted Great Lakes who said that in its view, F should be liable for the repairs. As 
neither insurer was prepared to accept cover for Mr Ts claim, he referred complaints about 
both to our service. Investigations have been carried out by a separate surveyor who has 
concluded that the local authority owned tree is causing clay shrinkage, leading to 
subsidence of Mr Ts property.
Our investigator considered that the damage in 2021 was more likely than not to be a 
continuation of the 2018 damage, and that a lasting and effective repair hadnt been carried 
out as part of the original claim with Great Lakes. She said that Great Lakes should consider 
Mr Ts claim for the 2021 damage. She agreed that F could fairly decline Mr Ts claim made 
on his new policy. Great Lakes didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As an insurer, Great Lakes has a duty to cover a lasting and effective repair to the property. 
It seems to have accepted that the 2018 claim was covered by the policy in effect at the 
time, but the costs of carrying out the recommended repairs were less than the £1000 policy 
excess. As a result, Mr T arranged for contractors to carry out these recommended repairs.
So my starting point of my considerations here is whether the repairs as recommended by 
Great Lakes surveyor were lasting and effective  and Im not persuaded that was the case. 
I say this for a number of reasons.
I note from the comments made by the surveyor following the investigation of the 2018 
damage that it had informed the local authority of the issue and that the tree owned by the 
local authority was believed to be the cause of the damage. It doesnt appear that any further 
measures to prevent further damage being caused by the tree were carried out, despite it 
being acknowledged and noted that further clay shrinkage, and therefore damage to the 
property, could occur. 
Great Lakes position appears to be that the recommended repairs were lasting and effective 
because there were no further incidents of subsidence, or apparent movement of the 
property, between 2018 and 2021. Im not persuaded by this. No monitoring or investigation 
has occurred in the intervening period, and Im not satisfied that the lack of visible damage to 
the property supports that no movement has occurred.  
I acknowledge Great Lakes point that as an insurer it isnt liable for carrying out purely 
preventative works. However, it seems to me that in order for a lasting and effective repair to 
have been carried out here, works to prevent the subsidence and damage occurring again 
should have been included. It seems to me that Great Lakes own surveyor was aware that 
damage could re-occur, and so in order to effect a lasting repair, it should have covered 
works specifically designed to prevent that.
Reference has been made in correspondence with our service to the Association of British 
Insurance (ABI) Domestic Subsidence Claims Agreement. This deals with situations where a 
policyholder has moved insurers and subsidence is subsequently found at the property. Its 
Great Lakes position that the spirit of the agreement means that F should be liable for Mr Ts 
2021 claim. Id make two points here. Firstly, Great Lakes has confirmed that it isnt a 
signatory to the agreement, so its not binding on it. Secondly, the agreement covers 
situations where the first occurrence of subsidence is after the change of insurers  here the 
case is different in that subsidence, caused in the same way, occurred several years before 
the change of insurer. 
The ABI agreement acknowledges this in its guidance, which says that where continued 
damage is due to inadequate repairs undertaken by a previous insurer, the claim should be 
referred back to the previous insurer. In applying the spirit of the agreement in light of this 
guidance, I think that the claim would fall back to Great Lakes to consider  which is what 
Ive concluded in any case, irrespective of whether Great Lakes is a signatory of the 
agreement.
One thing I have considered is whether I should hold Great Lakes responsible for the repair 
not being lasting and effective as it wasnt any contractor appointed by Great Lakes who did 
the works. It seems to me though that the contractor Mr T used did the works based on the 
assessment carried out by Great Lakes appointed surveyor  and the only reason this was 
the case was because hed been informed that the cost would be less than the policy 
excess. I think it was reasonable for Mr T to rely on the opinion of Great Lakes surveyor that 
the proposed repairs were sufficient. Great Lakes was liable for the extent of the works 
carried out, and as Ive outlined I dont think the repairs did amount to a lasting and effective 
repair.
For these reasons, Im satisfied that the 2021 damage should be considered a continuation 
of the previous claim from 2018 and that this falls within the scope of Great Lakes policy. It 
needs to assess the claim in accordance with the policys terms and conditions.
Mr T has incurred a number of costs in relation to the damage, including monitoring and 
investigation costs, at the request of the local authority. He also paid the costs of the original 
repairs in 2018. Great Lakes will need to assess what cover is available for these as part of 
its review of the claim.My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, Great Lakes 
Insurance SE must consider Mr Ts claim as a continuation of the 2018 claim, in accordance 
with the relevant policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman