DRN-3949547
The complaint
Mr B and Miss B are unhappy with what Amtrust Europe Limited did after they made a claim
on their legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
In 2021 Mr B and Miss B bought a property. The purchase completed on 30 April 2021. They
took out home insurance with Amtrust (which included legal expenses cover) and started the
same day. Some months later they found there was Japanese knotweed at their property.
They thought the seller was aware of this and it should have been declared during the
purchase process. They sought assistance from their legal expenses policy to obtain
compensation, and the cost of remedial action, from the seller.
Amtrust turned down the claim. It said while the policy did cover contract disputes that was
only where the contract was made after the insurance had been taken out. In addition, for
disputes relating to the purchase of your main home the process needed to have
commenced at least 30 days after the insurance was taken out (unless similar insurance
was in place immediately beforehand). As Mr B and Miss B had taken out this policy on the
same day their purchase completed it didnt think there was cover for the claim they were
making.
Our investigator was satisfied Mr B and Miss B only became aware of the problem with
knotweed after they moved into their property. And she thought theyd taken all necessary
steps to investigate this when buying the property. So she didnt think it was reasonable of
Amtrust to rely on the policy exclusion it had quoted to turn down the claim. And she said it
should reconsider the claim against the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr B and Miss B agreed with her outcome. Amtrust initially queried whether Mr B and Miss B
had made a complaint about the decision to turn down their claim. Our investigator clarified
the position and invited comments on the outcome shed reached. Amtrust didnt provide a
further response. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Amtrust has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Amtrust queried whether Mr B and Miss B had made a complaint about the decision on this
claim as it didnt think they had concerns about how it had been handled. I dont think Mr B
and Miss B do have concerns about the handling of the claim but its clear they are unhappy
with the decision to turn it down. And that complaint point was responded to by Amtrust and
incorporated into a final response from the seller of the policy in late November 2021. Mr B
and Miss B confirmed in a call with our investigator in April 2022 they wanted us to consider
this issue and she requested information from Amtrust about it that month. So Im satisfied
this is an issue we need to, and can, consider.
Mr B and Miss B have raised separate concerns about what happened when the policy was
sold and what they were told at that time. However, that isnt something Im considering. The
seller of the policy (which wasnt Amtrust) is responsible for these issues and those points
formed part of a separate complaint to us (which Mr B and Miss B decided not to pursue). 
What Im considering is Amtrusts decision to turn down the claim they made to it.
In doing so Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of their policy. I dont think its in
dispute the policy does cover consumer disputes including the purchase or sale of your
main home. However, the policy says the contract must have been made after you first
purchased this insurance. And under What is not covered it says in respect of disputes
over the purchase or sale of your main home, the purchase or sale must have commenced
at least 30 days after you first purchased this insurance or purchased similar insurance
which expired immediately before this insurance began.
In this case I understand Mr B and Miss B took out their policy on the same day their house
purchase completed. So I think Amtrust are right to say the claim they then made (which
relates to that purchase) isnt covered by their policy. The relevant contract wasnt made
after they took out the insurance and the purchase didnt commence at least 30 days after
they bought the policy.
However, as well as the policy terms I also need to consider whats fair and reasonable in all
of the circumstances. So Ive considered whether there are grounds to say Amtrust should
nevertheless cover the claim. I dont think there are. I accept Mr B and Miss B wouldnt have
known there was any issue with knotweed when they took out the policy. But I dont think
date of knowledge is the issue here. The policy is clear it only covers contracts entered into
after the policy was taken out. And for disputes over the purchase of a main home it only
covers those where the purchase commenced at least 30 days after the policy started.
Mr B and Miss B have queried what benefit that clause provides to Amtrust. Its for Amtrust
to decide what risks it wants to cover. In this case it appears to have decided it doesnt want
to cover risks associated with contracts for the sale or purchase of property taken out before
the policy started or soon after. Thats a decision its entitled to take.
Mr B and Miss B also say the term as it relates to the 30 day period is unfair. They say
nobody would take out cover until theyd actually purchased a property. But I dont think that
is the case. The legal expenses cover is an add on to a home insurance policy. A consumer
might already have taken out that sort of policy in relation to an existing property or taken out
contents insurance to protect their own possessions whether they owned a property or not.
The policy also says it will provide cover if a consumer had a previous policy offering similar
benefits. I understand in this case unfortunately Mr B and Miss B didnt have such a policy
but I dont think that means the term itself is unfair. And I dont think Amtrust acted unfairly in
turning down the claim they made.
Responses to my provisional decision
Amtrust didnt provide any comments on my provisional decision. Mr B and Miss B did 
respond. In summary they said:
As advised by their solicitor theyd exchanged and completed their property purchase on 
the same day. It was unreasonable to think someone would purchase home insurance in 
advance of exchange taking place. And they didnt believe it would have been possible 
to take out cover even if there had been a been a gap between exchange and 
completion as they couldnt have insured something they didnt own;Legal expenses cover had been included as standard for the policy they took out but the 
restriction relating to the purchase or sale of a property wasnt highlighted on the website 
relating to this cover. Nor was it highlighted as a significant or unusual term in the IPID 
document; 
They thought this clause discriminated against first time buyers and every customer in 
the same situation to them would fall foul of this issue meaning the policy wasnt 
appropriate for their circumstances;
They accepted Amtrust had acted in line with the policy terms in turning down their claim 
but didnt agree theyd acted fairly in doing so (and argued the clause itself was unfair).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr B and Miss B wouldnt have been able to take out insurance for their new 
property prior to exchange taking place. But I think they would have been able to do so after 
exchange even if completion didnt take place on the same day. Responsibility for the 
insurance of a property is normally passed to the buyer from the point at which contracts are 
exchanged. 
In any event I dont think thats the key issue here. Its not in dispute the exclusion in 
question applies to what actually happened. The question is whether its fair of Amtrust to 
apply that exclusion. And insurers are generally entitled to decide what cover they want to 
provide in exchange for the premium they charge. I dont think its inherently unfair of 
Amtrust to decide it doesnt want to cover risks associated with contracts for the sale or 
purchase of property taken out before the policy started or soon after.
And I dont think this clause would necessarily impact every first time buyer as Mr B and 
Miss B suggest. As I said in my provisional decision the policy will provide cover if a 
consumer had a previous policy offering similar benefits. I dont think it would be unusual for 
a consumer to have, for example, taken out contents insurance (which often includes legal 
expenses insurance) to protect their own possessions whether they own a property or not.
Mr B and Miss B say this exclusion doesnt appear in the IPID document or on the relevant 
website relating to this. But the website is the responsibility of the seller (a different 
business). And while Amtrust may be responsible for producing the IPID information the 
requirement under the rules is for this to contain the main exclusions where claims cannot 
be made. I think that would normally mean an exclusion that would tend to affect the 
decision of customers generally to buy.
Im not persuaded the exclusion in this case meets that test. It only limits one aspect of the 
legal expenses cover as it relates to consumer disputes and is only relevant to consumers 
whose property purchase didnt commence at least 30 days after the insurance was taken 
out and didnt have similar cover in place beforehand. I dont think this would affect the 
decision of a consumer generally to buy so Im not persuaded it needed to be included in the 
IPID. 
So it remains my view that Amtrust hasnt acted unfairly in turning down the claim Mr B and 
Miss B made. Im sorry to bring them what I appreciate will be disappointing news.My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 
10 March 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman