DRN-1947592
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with BoS in 2004. They were sold PPI in connection with 
this mortgage at the same time during a branch meeting.
 
Although the mortgage was in joint names, the PPI only covered Mr B. It would have 
provided a monthly benefit for up to 24 months if Mr B was off work sick or lost his job.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and                
Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs B will be disappointed by this outcome but I will go on to explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr B was eligible for the policy. And based on Mr Bs age 
and circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Mr B would have been eligible.
BoS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs B that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to the account. Mr and Mrs B say that no discussion about 
PPI took place and that it was added without their knowledge. They say they didnt have a 
need for PPI as they had sufficient existing repayment provisions, they had a secure 
employment history and were debt free other than this mortgage with no dependants. They 
say that given their circumstances they wouldnt have agreed to take PPI if it had been 
discussed with them.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. Ordinarily in such cases as well as 
considering what the parties have told us, I would also have looked to the documents from 
the time of the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have happened. But, 
unfortunately, BoS no longer have the documents from the time of sale. 
However, this is understandable given the length of time since the sale, so I cant hold this 
against BoS. But what it does mean is that I dont have sufficient evidence to be able to 
conclude that the PPI was added without their knowledge. Particularly given my 
understanding of the sales process at around the time of this sale and the sample 
documents I have seen previously for these types of PPI sales. These show that PPI was 
presented as optional and it would only have been applied to the account following a 
discussion and once the consumer had decided to take it out.
So while I appreciate what Mr and Mrs B have told us, I cant say its more likely that PPI 
was not presented as optional or that it was applied to their account without their knowledge.
BoS accept they advised Mr and Mrs B to take PPI. This means they would have had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs B. I dont know whether they 
took all the steps as they should have but based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time, I think it was suitable for them. I say this because:
Mr B doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would have 
made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy. 
Although Mr B has told us he wouldve been entitled to pay from his employer if he 
was off work sick, the policy would have paid out in addition to this and for a much 
longer period of time  - for up to 24 months. It would also have paid out in addition to 
any redundancy pay Mr B may have been entitled to. 
 
Mr and Mrs B have told us they had savings at the time of the sale. But there is no 
guarantee that the savings would still have been available if/when the need arose. I 
note in the PPI questionnaire completed by Mr and Mrs B that these savings were to 
be used for incidentals relating to the property they wanted to purchase abroad (the 
property for which this mortgage was taken out). But even if Mr and Mrs B did still have 
some savings available to them when the need arose, Mr and Mrs B could have used 
the savings for other essential living expenses while the PPI took care of the mortgage 
repayments. I understand they say they could have sold a property or drawn on Mr Bs 
pension, but the PPI meant they didnt need to resort to such measures and I dont 
regard them as suitable alternative repayment means.
Mr and Mrs B could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially 
if they no longer needed or wanted it.
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs B, BoS also had to give them 
clear enough information so that they could make an informed decision as to whether or not 
to take it out, in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions under the policy.
It's possible that BoS didnt give Mr and Mrs B all of the information as they should have. But 
this in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put them off taking it out. 
And I dont think better information would have put them off taking the PPI out. I say this for 
the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for them. 
So I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr and Mrs B this PPI policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Bank of Scotalnd plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman