DRN-3776043
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as B, is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC declined its 
application for a Coronavirus Business Interruption loan (CBIL) and that Lloyds didnt 
clearly explain why.
Bs complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Ms S.
What happened
On 29 March 2021, Ms S applied to Lloyds on Bs behalf for a £125,000 CBIL. Lloyds 
declined this application on 1 April 2021 and highlighted affordability concerns as the reason. 
Ms S appealed the decision and provided further information to Lloyds which, based on the 
feedback shed received from Lloyds about the first application, she believed would be 
sufficient to enable Lloyds to accept Bs application. But Lloyds declined Bs appealed 
application also. Ms S wasnt happy about this. And she also wasnt happy that Lloyds 
refused to provide similar detailed feedback as to why theyd declined the appealed 
application, as they had for the initial application. So, she raised a complaint on Bs behalf.
Lloyds responded to B and confirmed it didnt feel it had acted unfairly by declining Bs initial 
and appealed CBIL applications as it had. Lloyds also confirmed that the primary reason for 
the declining of the application was concerns Lloyds held over Bs ability to service the 
additional debt it was applying for. Ms S wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so she 
referred Bs complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Lloyds had acted 
unfairly in how it had managed the situation and noted that, ultimately, it was for Lloyds to 
decide whether it was willing to provide lending or not. Ms S remained dissatisfied, so Bs 
complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
I also feel its important to confirm that this service wouldnt generally instruct a bank to 
provide lending to a complainant in circumstances such as this, where Lloyds have 
confirmed that its unwilling to provide lending to B. This is because lending decisions are 
commercial decisions that its at the discretion of a bank to make. And this commercial 
discretion applies even regarding Government initiated schemes such as the CBIL scheme.
While it follows from the above that I wouldnt consider instructing Lloyds to provide a loan to 
B as Ms S would like here, I would consider instructing Lloyds to conduct a re-assessment of 
Bs CBIL application  if I felt that Lloydss hadnt conducted a fair assessment of Bs 
application when arriving at its decision in the first instance.   
However, having reviewed all the information provided to me by Lloyds about Bs CBIL 
application, Im satisfied that Lloyds have fairly assessed and considered Bs application. 
And this means that Im satisfied that Lloyds decision not to offer a CBIL to B has been 
based on a fair assessment, and as such isnt unfair. 
I can appreciate that Ms S would like to better understand why Lloyds arrived at the decision 
it did. And I can further appreciate how Lloyds refusal to provide a detailed explanation as to 
why it declined Bs appealed application  undertaken following the submission of further 
information to Lloyds from B  would be frustrating for Ms S, especially given that Lloyds did 
provide a detailed explanation of why it declined the initial application. 
But Lloyds arent obliged to provide the detailed reasoning as to why it declined Bs 
appealed application as Ms S would like. And I dont feel that Lloyds right in this regard is, or 
should, fairly be prejudiced by Lloyds willingness to provide detailed information to Ms S 
regarding Bs initial application. 
Notably, Lloyds have provided a detailed explanation to this service as to why it declined Bs 
CBIL application and the appealed application. And having reviewed this information  which 
Lloyds provided to this service confidentially and which as such Im not at liberty to share 
with Ms S  Im satisfied that Lloyds have conducted a fair assessment of Bs application 
and have taken the relevant information and factors into account. And Im therefore satisfied 
that Lloyds declining of Bs CBIL application and appealed application wasnt unfair. 
I make specific reference to the appealed application here because Im aware that Ms S has 
concerns about Lloyds handling of the appealed application. I can confirm to Ms S that Ive 
considered her concerns when reviewing the information that Lloyds have provided to this 
service about why the appealed application was unsuccessful. And having done so, I dont 
feel that Lloyds have acted unfairly as Ms S hypothesises. Rather, Im satisfied that what 
happened is that the information that Ms S provided in support of the appealed application 
wasnt sufficient to assuage Lloyds concerns.
I realise the above explanation may not be entirely satisfactory to Ms S. But I hope she finds 
some comfort knowing that someone independent and impartial has reviewed Lloyds 
assessment of Bs application and hasnt found it to have been conducted unfairly. 
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any 
further action here. This is because Im satisfied that Lloyds have conducted a fair 
assessment of Bs CBIL application, and that having done so, that Lloyds decision to not 
offer lending to B is a decision which Lloyds are fairly entitled to make.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman