DRN-2331372
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in connection 
with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didnt actually sell the PPI, but its 
accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep things 
simple.
Mrs B says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Mrs B opened a store card account in a shop in 1986. AXAs records show that the PPI was 
added to her account in December 1994, following a phone call.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Bs card each 
month if shed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA isnt able to provide a call recording or a copy of the call script used around the time 
when the PPI was added to Mrs Bs account. I dont think thats unreasonable, given that 
this was so long ago. So I dont know what was said to Mrs B about the PPI. But based 
on what we know about the sales process, and given that PPI was added more than 
eight years after shed taken out her store card, I think Mrs B would have realised that 
the PPI wasnt compulsory.
From what we know about the way this type of PPI was sold at the time, I think its 
unlikely that AXA recommended the PPI to Mrs B. That means it didnt have to check 
that it was right for her. It was for Mrs B to decide whether to take the cover, knowing 
what other means shed have had of making her store card repayments if she was off 
sick, or if she lost her job. But AXA did have a responsibility to give Mrs B clear enough 
information to enable her to decide whether the policy was right for her.
Mrs B has told us that shed have been entitled to generous sick pay from her employer. 
Shes not sure exactly how much, but shes told us that people currently in similar 
positions are entitled to five months full pay, followed by five months half pay. She also 
says that significant unemployment benefits would have been available to her. But if 
shed made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it 
would have paid a monthly benefit of 15% of what she owed on her store card. And it 
would have done this each month until her credit agreement ended, or she returned to 
work, or the outstanding balance at the time of her claim had been repaid- whichever 
was the earliest.
So the policy would potentially have covered Mrs B for longer than shed have been 
entitled to full sick pay. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any sick pay or 
redundancy pay that Mrs B received from her employer. So she could have used those 
to cover other day-to-day expenses. And she wouldnt have had to use any savings she 
had to make her store card repayments.
I acknowledge that Mrs B says she could have relied on her husbands income, if need 
be. But circumstances can change, and I cant be sure that Mrs Bs husband would have 
been in a position to help if the need had arisen. So taking everything into account, 
I think the PPI policy could have been useful to Mrs B.
I accept that its possible the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But Im satisfied, on balance, that she chose to take out the PPI - 
so it looks as if she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that 
now. Based on what shes told us about her circumstances when she took the PPI out, 
Mrs B was eligible for the policy, and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main things it didnt cover (for example provisions about unusual working arrangements 
or existing medical conditions). 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that the policy was unaffordable for Mrs B. And since she 
was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time with no further cost if 
her circumstances changed, or if she decided she no longer wanted the cover.
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information about the PPI 
would have put Mrs B off taking it out. So I dont think shes lost out as a result of 
anything that AXA may have done wrong.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman