DRN-3837871
The complaint
Mr H complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds (AA) handling of his 
claim following an accident he had when driving, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr H was involved in an accident whilst driving his car. The passenger side 
wing mirror was damaged as a result. He contacted AA to ask for advice on whether he 
should make a claim. He was told an incident would be reported anyway that could impact 
on his premiums. So, he decided to pursue a claim.
Mr H says there were delays arranging for his car to be repaired. He also says AA told him 
his car was drivable. However, he was subsequently pulled over by the police and told he 
couldnt drive his car in its damaged state. When he enquired about a hire car, he was told 
there werent any available. A hire car was provided later on but this wasnt like for like and 
caused further issues for Mr H.
Mr H says he has made countless phone calls, sent emails, and used social media to 
contact AA. He thinks the service provided has been very poor. He says he has since bought 
a replacement wing mirror himself and arranged for it to be fitted.   
In its final complaint AA says it agrees with Mr Hs concerns and offers its apologies. It says 
the images Mr H sent to its repairer initially, were of insufficient quality to provide an 
estimate. A new link was sent on 17 May 2022 to upload additional photos. AA says a 
response wasnt provided and the link expired. 
To resolve matters it offered to inspect the damage at Mr Hs home and provide a cash 
settlement. Alternatively, Mr H could send more photos and it would arrange for a repair 
date, or Mr H could arrange his own repairs and provide an invoice. AA says it will need 
supporting images and an invoice on company letter headed paper for its engineer to review, 
if this was the option Mr H preferred. AA also paid £250 for the distress and service failings 
experienced by Mr H.
Mr H didnt think AA had done enough to resolve his complaint and referred the matter to our 
service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. He says there was a period of 17 days when 
Mr Hs car wasnt drivable, and AA should pay £10 per day for loss of use. He thought the 
options provided by AA to repair the car were reasonable, along with the £250 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
AA accepted this outcome, but Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Im not going to add to the remedy set 
out by our investigator. I realise this will be disappointing for Mr H, but I will explain why I 
think my decision is fair. 
Ive listened to the call recording when Mr H first contacted AA. He explains about the 
accident and the call handler tells him liability in these circumstances is initially considered to 
be split, but this will be investigated. Mr H is advised to keep any receipts from paying his 
policy excess, should he be able to claim this back later. The call handler tells Mr H he will 
receive an email so he can provide photos of the damage. The call is subsequently 
transferred to someone else to discuss the provision of a courtesy car, at which point the 
recording ends.
There was no discussion about whether the car was still drivable in the call recording. I dont 
have a recording of the later conversation relating to the provision of a courtesy car. But I 
would expect AA to make efforts to establish whether the car was drivable or not at an early 
stage. 
I have no reason to doubt Mr Hs comments that AA told him his car was still drivable. I also 
accept that he was stopped by the police. At which point he was told he shouldnt drive his 
car in its damaged condition. I can understand that this must have been distressing for Mr H. 
The Road Vehicles (Construction and Use) Regulations (1986) say that a vehicle should 
have at least two mirrors, one of which must be the drivers side wing mirror. My 
understanding is that Mr Hs car didnt have a functional passenger side wing mirror. But he 
did still have an internal rear-view mirror and a drivers side wing mirror. The indication from 
this is that the car could still legally be driven.
That said, there are other requirements under the regulations, including that a mirror is fixed 
in a way that it remains steady under normal driving conditions. From the photos provided, 
the wing mirror was severely smashed and being held together with tape. The Road Traffic 
Act (1988) also contains a condition that says the use of a vehicle cant represent a danger 
of injury to any person. 
I acknowledge that AA thought Mr Hs vehicle was drivable. Ive not seen information to 
confirm the reasoning given by the police when Mr H was pulled over. But it is clear from his 
testimony that the police didnt think he should be driving his car. 
Having considered this point, I dont think AA should reasonably have given Mr H advice that 
his car could be driven. This also likely delayed the process of him receiving a courtesy car. 
Mr H has provided copies of the photos he sent to AAs repairer for it to inspect the damage. 
The photos are clear and show the severely damaged wing mirror. Im not an engineer so I 
cant comment on what the repairer was missing from these images. There was a request 
from the repairer for additional photos. AA says Mr H didnt respond to this. However, it does 
acknowledge that communication couldve been better in relation to this point, suggesting 
more direct discussion with Mr H and the repairer wouldve been helpful here. I think its 
likely that poor communication contributed towards the delays in AAs claim handling. 
I can see that a courtesy car was provided on 14 May 2022. This took 17 days from when Mr 
H first registered his claim. I note his comments that the car wasnt like for like with his car, 
and this wasnt suitable for giving lifts to his elderly parents who have mobility issues. 
Ive read Mr Hs policy terms to understand what cover is provided. The terms say:An AA Comprehensive Car Insurance policy means that following an accident, You will be 
provided with use of a standard courtesy car while Your Insured Car is undergoing repair, 
subject to the repair being carried out by Your Insurers approved repairer a standard 
courtesy car will be supplied during the period of the repairs. A standard courtesy car is a 
category A vehicle, normally a small 3 door, 1 litre hatchback car.
Im sorry Mr H experienced problems because of the type of courtesy car he received. But I 
cant see that AA did anything wrong here given the cover that was in place. 
I do think a courtesy car shouldve been provided sooner. Mr H sent photos early on in the 
claim to show the condition of the wing mirror. I dont think it was correct for AA to tell him his 
car was drivable based on the information it had. Mr Hs policy provides for a courtesy car if 
his is undergoing repairs. The repairs didnt go ahead, but I think a significant factor to this 
were the communication issues and service failings highlighted. 
In these circumstances I think AA should make a payment to acknowledge Mr Hs loss of 
use for the 17-day period before he received a courtesy car. We think £10 a day is fair and 
so AA should provide a payment for £170. This is in addition to the £250 compensation AA 
paid for the distress and service failings it has already acknowledged.
I note Mr H says he bought a replacement wing mirror online and paid someone to fit it for 
him. I think the options AA set out in its complaint response were reasonable to ensure Mr 
Hs car was repaired. One of the options was for Mr H to arrange the repairs and provide 
evidence in the form of images and an invoice on company letter headed paper. Mr H can of 
course liaise with AA if he wishes to claim, albeit he does have a £250 policy excess to pay, 
which will of course be a consideration. 
In summary I dont think AA treated Mr H fairly because of the communication and service 
failings that resulted in delays and the lack of a courtesy car. It should pay him £170 to 
acknowledge the loss of use of his car. But I think the £250 compensation AA has already 
paid is fair to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited should:
pay Mr H £170 for the loss of use of his car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman