DRN-1768732
Complaint
Mr S says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading at the time as Egg) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr S bought the policy in 2002, at the same time as taking out a credit card online. It 
covered him in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive looked carefully at screenshots showing the process Mr S wouldve gone through when 
he applied for his card online. From those, I can see there wouldve been a section for PPI, 
which gave an overview of the policys cost and purpose. Then there were two options to 
choose from: one to buy PPI, and one to turn it down. According to the electronic record of 
Mr Ss application, he chose the option to buy PPI. So I think its most likely that Canada 
Square made Mr S aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it 
at the time  though I can understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Canada Square didnt give Mr S tailored advice about buying PPI, so they didnt have to 
check if it was right for him. They did have to give Mr S enough information to decide if the 
PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information Canada Square gave Mr S about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr S chose to take out the policy, which indicates he 
wanted this type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it 
looks like he was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations.
The policy wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ss existing work benefits and offered him more 
comprehensive cover, such as for when his sick pay reduced to just a fraction of his normal 
pay. I understand Mr Ss family may have been happy to help, but there was always the 
chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this policy meant he wouldnt have to 
ask his family to pay his credit card for him. So the policy couldve been useful for Mr S in 
case he was off sick or out of work in the long term. And it was paid on a rolling monthly 
basis, so Mr S could cancel the PPI at any time without a penalty. The policy had a normal waiting period that was comparable to similar policies, and I do not 
think it was onerous given that the insurance was there to cover long-term time off sick or 
unemployment. I understand that Mr S feels it was unreasonable to be asked to sign on as 
unemployed in order to claim for unemployment, but I dont agree. I think thats a reasonable 
and fairly standard requirement, and is not unfair or onerous. I also understand he did not 
agree with the way the relevant government benefits office ran things, but Canada Square 
were not responsible for government departments. Lastly, I understand he now feels it 
wasnt possible for him to go more than 12 weeks without a job offer, but long-term periods 
of unemployment can and do happen, even to people who are highly qualified.
Overall, I do not think that better information about the PPI was likely to have put Mr S off 
taking it out.
Lastly, Mr S mentioned that he got a refund for a different PPI policy, and I understand why 
hes raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, were suitable in different 
circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, and so on. So even if 
one given policy was mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that a different one was, too. Ive 
explained above why Ive not found this particular policy to have been mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman