DRN-2685738
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Zenith Insurance plcs valuation of his car.
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said after looking at the 
specifications of Mr Hs vehicle she was satisfied the offer from Zenith (£4,750) was fair and 
in line with the trade guides used by this service. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman review. He said the advertised vehicle he had 
seen was the only car available in the country similar to his car and would cost between 
£6,500 - £7,500. So, that was by definition the market value.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why below.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
I appreciate Mr Hs concern that he hasnt been able to find a replacement car of equal value 
with the settlement Zenith has offered. Mr Hs policy says Zenith will settle the claim by 
paying him the market value of his car at the time of the loss. But that sum isnt necessarily 
the same amount that the car was purchased for or the cost of replacing it.
Its not this services role to provide an exact valuation of the car. We consider if the offer 
being made is reasonable based upon the trade guides we use. Those guides are based on 
likely selling prices rather than advertised prices, which allow a margin for negotiation. 
Ive considered the trade guides used by this service which vary, as do the prices of the 
same make and model of cars across the country. But I believe the valuation offered by 
Zenith sufficiently considers Mr Hs cars age, mileage and condition. I believe an insurers 
valuation is fair and reasonable if its within the ranges of the various guides we use. And I 
note the valuation is within the ranges from the trade guides. So, I believe this is a fair offer 
in the circumstances.
So, Im not going to ask Zenith to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman