DRN-2803952
The complaint
Mr B says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him
irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr B took out five loans from ELL between April 2011 and May 2019. This decision deals 
solely with loans 4 and 5 as we cannot consider loans 1 to 3. This is because one of these 
rules we have to follow allows a lender to object to us considering a complaint if it is made 
over six years from the event being complained about. And where it is more than three years 
since the consumer could have reasonably known they had a reason to complain. 
As ELL objected, the adjudicator assessed whether or not loans 1 to 3 fell outside our 
jurisdiction. She concluded they did and explained why. Neither party challenged her 
conclusion so I will comment no further on this. And I will consider loans 1 to 3 solely in the 
context of the overall lending relationship between ELL and Mr B.  A summary of Mr Bs 
borrowing follows.
loan taken out repaidamount, 
£term, 
months
1 30/04/2011 02/11/2011 1000 13
2 02/11/2011 09/08/2012 2699.72 24
3 09/08/2012 16/12/2014 3648.89 30
4 16/12/2014 24/12/2017 3603.99 30
5 30/05/2019 - 2500 33
Mr B says ELL didnt carry out effective affordability checks. Our adjudicator concluded that
ELL was wrong to give loans 4 and 5 to Mr B. He said the lenders checks were 
proportionate, but it hadnt made fair lending decisions based on the information it gathered.
ELL agreed in part saying it accepted it shouldnt have approved loan 5, but not loan 4. It 
agreed to compensate Mr B for loan 5 in line with our guidelines. Mr B rejected this offer and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and 
Ive followed it here.
 
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Mr B required it to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr B. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr B. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Bs loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did ELL make fair lending decisions?
- did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
As ELL has now agreed it should not have given loan 5 to Mr B I will focus here on what 
remains in dispute - loan 4. 
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr B to understand his disposable income
before it approved the loan. It asked for his monthly income and checked his income with 
payslips and asked for copies of his recent bank statements. It seems to have however used 
a percentage of his income to estimate his expenses, not actuals from the data in the bank 
statements. It checked Mr Bs credit file to understand his existing monthly credit 
commitments and credit history. It understood loan 4 was to refinance loan 3. From these 
checks combined ELL concluded loan 4 was affordable for Mr B. 
Im not persuaded the checks were wholly proportionate given Mr Bs borrowing history and 
the term and value of the loan. I think ELL should have verified its assumptions about Mr Bs 
living costs. But I wont comment further on this as I agree with the adjudicator that ELL 
didnt make a fair lending decision when Mr B applied for this loan based on the information 
it gathered. In response to the adjudicators view ELL said the default that was registered in the prior 
month was only for the minimal amount of £51 and could have been an unresolved disputed 
transaction. But ELL didnt address the more crucial points the adjudicator made. 
When Mr B applied for loan 4 he had been borrowing from ELL continually for 43 months, 
and loan 4 was over three times the size of loan 1. It was the third time Mr B had refinanced 
his previous loan. So I think there were clear signs that Mr Bs finances were not stabilising 
and he was not getting out from under the debt he was carrying, rather his indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably. From the information it gathered ELL also knew Mr B was using 
payday loans to support his finances. I think from this information combined ELL ought to 
have realised it was most likely Mr B was having problems managing his money.  
ELL could argue the loan was affordable based on the level of disposable income its checks 
showed. But ELL knows, as a responsible lender, it was required to do more than just make 
sure Mr B could afford the loan on a pounds and pence basis. It had to make sure the 
repayments were sustainable and not likely to cause Mr B to suffer any adverse financial 
impact. CONC 5.3.1G stated:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required , a firm
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
So given the information it gathered I think ELL ought to have seen there was a high risk
Mr B would be unable to repay loan 4 sustainably. It follows I think ELL was wrong to give
loan 4 to Mr B, as well as loan 5.
I have not found any evidence that ELL acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some
other way.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the capital that he borrowed on loans 4 and 5 
because he had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on loans
that shouldnt have been provided to him.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on loans 4 and 5 and treat all the payments
Mr B made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Bs loan accounts results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments
would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Bs loan accounts results in there being a capital balance 
outstanding, then ELL should work with Mr B to agree a suitable payment plan, 
keeping in mind its obligation to treat Mr B positively and sympathetically if he is 
having financial difficulties.Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to loans 4 
and 5.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr B a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Bs complaint about loans 4 and 5. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), 
trading as Everyday Loans, must now put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman