DRN-3515121
The complaint
Mr C complains about refurbishment charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) asked him to pay at the end of a car lease.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators findings. Ill explain why.
Mr C acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr C responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The damage charges that remain
Whilst MBFS have their own vehicle return standards the industry guidelines for what is 
considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is 
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). So, I think that 
industry standard is the fairest gauge of whether charges have been levied fairly and Ill use 
that when considering the damage in the inspection reports.
MBFS agreed to remove the charges theyd applied for damage to the wheels. So, Ive 
considered the remaining charge for the dent on the door.
The BVRLA guidance says that dents on the swage line are not acceptable and I think the 
deformation of the wave board in the inspectors photograph clearly shows there is a dent on 
that line. So, I think its clear the damage is outside of what would fairly be considered 
reasonable wear and tear.
Mr C says the damage wasnt present during the first inspection and must have occurred on 
the trip to the auction house. He points out that the weather was very poor, and the trip was 
around 70 miles. I would agree that the initial video is inconclusive and doesnt focus on the 
area in enough detail to demonstrate the extent or presence of any damage. But that doesnt 
mean the damage wasnt present and I think its much more likely to have occurred in Mr Cs 
two year and 15,000-mile tenure than during a short 70-mile transfer to the auction house.
Im therefore persuaded that the dent was likely to have been present on collection and that 
MBFS havent been unreasonable when making a charge for it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman