DRN-4019865
The complaint
Mr G and Miss G complain that they were unable to get through to a mortgage adviser with 
Lloyds Bank PLC on 29 September 2022 and so missed out on a favourable interest rate 
that was no longer available when they did make contact in early October 2022.
What happened
Mr G and Miss G saw a fixed rate mortgage product that they wished to avail of with Lloyds 
and attempted to contact the bank on 29 September but after five hours of trying were 
unable to get through to a mortgage adviser. Mr G and Miss G made a complaint on the 
same date and tried to contact another employee who had arranged a staff mortgage for 
them before. A lady in complaints told Miss G that other staff had a similar issue but that she 
would get a code to show she had tried to get through on the day and that the rate she 
wanted of 3.26% would be honoured. The rates changed on 1 October and the rate they 
wanted was no longer available when they got an appointment on 4 October when Mr G and 
Miss G began an application, completed on 10 October for a rate of 4.2%. 
As Mr G and Miss G heard nothing further about their complaint, they contacted Lloyds in 
early October when it was clear that Lloyds wouldnt honour the rate they wanted. Lloyds 
says that it couldnt honour historic rates as it could only make recommendations for 
products available during the course of an application. It offered £50 compensation for the 
incorrect information. Our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld in part as 
Lloyds was responsible for misinforming Mr G and Miss G about its ability to apply historical 
interest rates and that Lloyds should pay £150 in total compensation to Mr G and Miss G. Mr 
G and Miss G disagreed saying in summary that they should have got the rate that was 
available when they tried to get through on 29 September 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The core of this complaint is that Mr G and Miss G were unable to make contact with a 
Lloyds mortgage adviser on 29 September and missed out on an interest rate that was 
available then although they secured the rate that was available a few days later at a higher 
rate of interest. Ive no doubt that Mr G and Miss G made great efforts to get through on that 
day but were unable to. The reason for that, I understand, was the great volumes of calls 
that Lloyds was receiving that day and I expect that was related to the rise in the Bank of 
England base rate which occurred shortly before that. 
In order to get the rate they wanted, Mr G and Miss G required not only to get through to 
Lloyds but then get an appointment with a qualified mortgage adviser and get a 
recommendation from that adviser, following an assessment, for the mortgage they wanted. 
Lloyds was unable to facilitate an appointment for Mr G and Miss G on the day they tried to 
get through. We would expect Lloyds to arrange appointments within a reasonable period 
and I see that within a few days Mr G and Miss G did get an appointment and that seems 
reasonable
Its not our role to tell Lloyds what resources it should direct towards answering phone calls. 
Its a commercial entity and thats a matter for the bank. We can require that Lloyds 
customers should have access to a financial service including a mortgage appointment 
within a reasonable period. But that doesnt mean that it has to be on the same day that the 
customer first tries to contact the bank. In this case Mr G and Miss G got that appointment 
not on the day they wanted it but within a reasonable period which was in fact a few days 
later. Unfortunately, they missed out on a more favourable mortgage rate that lapsed in the 
meantime but Lloyds provided the service within a reasonable period which is what we 
would require. Presumably had Mr G and Miss G acted earlier and tried to book the 
appointment some days previously they might have been able to get an appointment before 
the end of the month and get the rate they wanted.
So, even though Mr G and Mrs G didnt get an appointment on the 29 September I dont 
consider that Lloyds did anything wrong. When they got the appointment, the adviser 
advised them with reference to interest rates current at the time and not historic rates. 
Interest rates had changed in the meantime and the interest rates that were available in 
September were simply not available in October so I would expect the adviser to deal with 
the October rates. I see that some confusion was caused, by I understand a complaints 
adviser, suggesting that the interest rates could be carried over in some way. But that was 
incorrect information which may have built up Mr G and Miss Gs hopes but was incorrect. 
For that I accept that Lloyds should pay compensation of £150 not £50 and for that reason I 
will be upholding this complaint. But otherwise, I dont consider that Lloyds did anything 
wrong.
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr G and Miss G £150 compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman