DRN-2486639
The complaint
Miss P complains that Ferratum UK Ltd irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans Ferratum provided to Miss P between July 
2019 and December 2019. Miss P borrowed amounts ranging between £300 to £600, to 
repaid in two to four monthly instalments. The amounts she had to repay each month ranged 
between £152.17 and £251.06. None of the loans overlapped. Miss P repaid the first three 
loans, but an amount remains outstanding for loan four. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Miss Ps complaint should be upheld. Miss P 
disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. Miss P said Ferratum 
had offered to refund interest for loan three and waive loan four, but it had withdrawn this 
offer. She thought this showed that it had been in the wrong. She said other lenders had 
gathered information that showed she was having problems managing her money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss P could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Ferratum should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Miss P could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ps complaint.
Ferratum asked Miss P for information about her income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Miss P said her monthly income was £1,251 and her outgoings were £300. I 
cant see anything untoward in Ferratums credit checks that should have prevented it 
lending to Miss P. I think these checks were proportionate and sufficient for loans one to 
three. 
For loans one to three, given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Miss Ps 
circumstances at the time and her history with Ferratum, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Miss P provided or the information 
Ferratum shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Miss P was saying. 
From the information Miss P provided and what Ferratum found, these three loans looked 
affordable for Miss P. So I cant say that Ferratum was wrong to have provided loans one to 
three. Unlike another lender Miss P has complained about, Ferratums own checks didnt 
show that her loans were unaffordable. 
Loan four was for £600, double the amount of the three previous loans. And it was to be 
repaid over four months with higher instalments of £251. Miss P had been borrowing 
continuously for about five months. So I think this should have prompted Ferratum to make 
further checks to ensure that Miss P could sustainably repay her loan. It could, for example, 
have verified what shed told it by checking her bank statements. 
I think a proportionate check for loan four would most likely have shown:
that Miss P had only one other outstanding short-term loan with another provider;there was nothing significant in the credit searches that should have prevented 
Ferratum from providing loan four.
So I cant say that Ferratum was wrong to have provided loan four. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Ferratums lending history with Miss P, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Ferratum should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Ferratum should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans. But I cant see that the number of loans, their 
amounts, or the period of borrowing should have alerted Ferratum that Miss P was 
experiencing financial difficulties. 
From what I can see, loan four is still outstanding. I cant say why Ferratum initially offered to 
waive this loan, and to refund interest for it and loan three, but it has since withdrawn its 
offer. I expect Ferratum to respond positively and sympathetically to Miss P if she is having 
difficulties repaying this loan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman