DRN-3306434
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to action her request to change the date 
of a direct debit.
What happened
Ms B has a loan that she pays for by monthly direct debits of £47.72 from her Lloyds current 
account. The normal payment date was the 7th of the month. However, in October 2020 Ms 
B says she contacted Lloyds asking it to change the date to the 14th of the month going 
forward. This request wasnt actioned and the November 2020 payment went out earlier than 
Ms B was expecting on 9 November 2020 (because the 7 November 2020 was a Saturday).
Ms B rang Lloyds on 9 November 2020 to complain about the payment going out on that 
date because it had left her in financial difficulty. However, she was unhappy about the way 
Lloyds dealt with her over the phone. On 14 November 2020 Lloyds wrote to Ms B to uphold 
her complaint. It offered her £50 as compensation for poor service plus an additional £18 to 
cover the cost of her phone calls. The amount of £68 was paid directly into Ms Ss account. 
In a later phone call on 19 November 2020, Lloyds offered Ms B an additional £75 for trouble 
and upset (as yet unpaid). The direct debit date was also amended and the payment went 
out as it should on 14 December 2020.
Ms B is unhappy that she didnt receive a promised phone call from Lloyds to discuss her 
complaint further prior to it making its decision and that it paid the compensation into her 
account without asking if she accepted it.
Our investigator concluded that Lloyds had made errors with regard to the direct debit date. 
She recommended that Lloyds make some changes to Ms Bs credit report with regard to 
how the December 2020 payment had been recorded. The investigator also thought that 
Lloyds had provided a poor level of service when Ms B had contacted it by phone. One of 
Ms Bs points was that she felt Lloyds hadnt taken her mental health issues, which she had 
previously told it about, into consideration when dealing with her complaint. Ms B also 
provided some more information about her particular circumstances and the impact that this 
matter had had on her. Taking this into consideration, the investigator didnt think that 
Lloyds compensation offer of £125 was sufficient. As such, she recommended that Lloyds 
should increase its offer to £350 in total, to which Lloyds has agreed.
Ms B doesnt feel that £350 is enough and says she wants at least £2,500 compensation. 
She also has a number of other points that she remains dissatisfied with, which are:
Lloyds showed no consideration, empathy or compassion when dealing with her, 
despite knowing about her vulnerabilities.
Lloyds said it tried to call her on 12 November 2020 but the call was unsuccessful. 
Ms B doesnt believe this as she didnt have a missed call and Lloyds didnt leave a 
voicemail.
Lloyds didnt give her the opportunity to provide any supporting evidence when 
initially investigating her complaint. Our adjudicator has agreed that the complaint 
handling was poor but doesnt think that Lloyds should do anything further.
There is still a Q query marker on the credit file for November 2020 which our 
adjudicator said was reasonable as it was an accurate reflection of there being a 
query between the customer and the lender regarding the account. Ms Bs point is 
that the query marker is only there because of Lloyds error and there would be no 
marker at all had Lloyds done things correctly.
Ms B has told us that she had applications for borrowing turned down by other 
lenders after November 2020. Ms B says she had no other adverse events affecting 
her credit file and so the query marker must be the reason for being declined further 
credit.
Ms B says that Lloyds actions were traumatic and that she was unable to work at 
times due to the severe impact on her mental health. In particular she was signed off 
work between July  September 2021 and had to increase her medication, resulting 
in a loss of income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has accepted that Ms B received poor service over the phone when she rang to 
discuss the direct debit having gone out early. Lloyds has a record of having tried to call Ms 
B in advance of sending out its complaint response and I have no reason to doubt the 
accuracy of that record. However, I also have no reason to doubt Ms Bs account that she 
didnt receive a call. Having considered all the evidence here, I think that what is more likely 
than not to have happened is that Lloyds did call Ms B as thats what the evidence shows, 
but for some reason, the call didnt connect. I dont know why that is, but what Ive 
considered is the impact this situation had on Ms B.
In doing so, I note that Lloyds, having upheld Ms Bs complaint, was keen to let her know 
that and so quickly wrote to her with the outcome. The fact that it did so, and paid the £68 
into her account at that point, did not prevent Ms B from pursuing her complaint further. Ms B 
says our adjudicator agreed that the complaint handling was poor but didnt think Lloyds 
should do anything more. But actually our adjudicator thought that Lloydss original 
compensation offer should be increased to take this issue into account.
Lloyds didnt have any record of Ms B having made an advance request to move the date of 
the direct debit. So although Lloyds later accepted that there was probably some 
misunderstanding when Ms B rang in October 2020, the Q marker does accurately 
represent a query being made on the payment at the time. Ms B hasnt provided any 
evidence that she had credit applications refused. However, businesses lending decisions 
are based on numerous different factors and so Im unable to determine why Ms B might 
have been declined credit if that was the case. 
A Q marker on a credit file isnt an adverse or negative record in the same way as a missed 
or late payment marker. So I dont think its likely to have impacted on any applications for 
credit she may have made. As such, Im not persuaded that it has had an impact on Ms Bs 
ability to get further credit. 
I have no doubt that Ms B found the problems she encountered with Lloyds traumatic. Ive 
thought very carefully about what she has told us about how it affected her in terms of her 
ongoing mental health difficulties. However, on balance, Im unable to conclude that her 
subsequent time off work and increased medication was solely the result of this.
 I understand that Ms B feels very strongly that Lloyds has treated her badly and that she 
deserves a higher level of compensation. However, overall, I consider the amount of £350 to 
be a reasonable and proportionate amount of compensation for the errors that occurred.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Bs complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay an extra £300 to Ms B in 
addition to the £50 it has already paid her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman