Page 1 of 3 The complaint  
Ms D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) provided her with 
inappropriate advice regarding making pension contributions in 1991.  
What happened  
Ms D has been assisted in making this complaint by a claims management company. But, 
for ease, in this decision I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and 
from, Ms D herself.  
In 1991 Ms D was a General Practitioner (GP) working i n the NHS. As I will discuss later in 
my decision it isnt clear whether that was on an employed, or self -employed basis. But 
NatWests notes from the time also record that Ms D was receiving income from private work 
she performed that I consider would cle arly be on a self -employed basis.  
Ms D sought advice from NatWest about making some additional pension contributions in 
respect of the income she received from her private work. In its file from the time NatWest 
noted that Ms D had discussed her situation  with the administrators of the NHS pension 
scheme and been told that she could make additional contributions to that scheme to 
purchase added years benefits. Following her discussions with NatWest Ms D opened a 
personal pension with a third -party provid er. 
Over the following years, Ms D received additional advice from other parties about her 
pension provision. Those advisors were entirely unconnected with NatWest, and so NatWest 
is not responsible for that subsequent advice. So this decision will be onl y considering what 
happened in 1991.  
Ms Ds complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. During her investigations 
she was provided with some additional information by NatWest about the pension options 
available to Ms D in 1991  information o ur investigator verified with the NHS pension 
administrators. That led her to alter her original view of the complaint and ultimately 
conclude that NatWest hadnt done anything wrong when it provided advice to Ms D in 1991. 
So she didnt think that the com plaint should be  upheld.  
Ms D didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.  
What Ive decided  and why  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
DRN-3093703Page 2 of 3  In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Ms D and by NatWest. Where the evidence is unclear, or  there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words  
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.  
 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual  complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.  
 
I think it would be helpful to first discuss Ms Ds employment status at the time she sought 
advice from NatWest in 1991. It seems clear from the documentation produced at the time 
that Ms D told NatWest she was self -employed. And that does fit with my u nderstanding of 
how her engagement with the NHS would be correctly viewed. But it is also clear that Ms D 
was entitled to be a member of the NHS occupational pension scheme at that time, and 
received pension benefits in relation to the work that she did fo r the NHS. But those benefits 
didnt extend to any work that Ms D performed on a private basis, and it appears that is what 
she sought advice from NatWest about.  
 
But in some ways that might be considered to be a relatively arbitrary distinction. What Ms D 
wanted to achieve was to maximise her pension savings to provide the greatest income 
when she later retired. So if that could be achieved by making additional con tributions in 
relation to her NHS activities, rather than her private income, I cant see that would be any 
less attractive regardless of how her earnings were actually divided. So I think it would be 
right that NatWest took that into consideration when pr oviding its advice to her.  
 
It is important to consider the options available to NatWest when it provided this advice, and 
the expectations of the regulator at the time. Ultimately here the decision about how to 
proceed with increasing her pension savings was down to Ms D. In relatio n to the options 
available to her regarding additional contributions to the occupational scheme, Ms D would 
need to gather that information for herself. But it would be right to expect NatWest to point 
her in the direction of the scheme administrator to do  so. 
 
As I said earlier, both NatWest and our investigator have contacted the administrator of the 
NHS pension scheme to understand what options were available to Ms D. Both those 
conversations have produced the same outcome. In 1991 there was no opportuni ty for Ms D 
to make additional voluntary contributions on a defined contribution basis. The only option 
was for her to make additional contributions to the scheme in order to purchase  
added years benefits.  
 
The documentation that NatWest holds from the t ime is understandably limited. It seems its 
relationship with Ms D, in terms of advising on pension matters, ceased in 1993. So it isnt 
surprising that, almost thirty years later, much of the information it gave to Ms D is no longer 
available. But NatWest  has provided us with some internal documents that show some of the 
information it considered before providing its recommendation to Ms D. That documentation 
shows that, prior to NatWest giving its advice, Ms D had discussed paying added years 
contribution s with the scheme administrator, and had been given information about her 
options.  Page 3 of 3 So I think it is reasonable to conclude that, even before she received any advice from 
NatWest about choosing a personal pension, Ms D was aware that she c ould instead make 
additional contributions to her occupational scheme. Since she chose to approach NatWest, 
and ultimately accepted its recommendation of a personal pension, I can only assume that 
she found the added years option to be unattractive  eithe r in terms of the benefits it would 
provide, or the cost that she would need to pay each month from her NHS earnings.  
But ultimately I dont think that has the greatest bearing on this decision. NatWests advice 
was not given in relation to paying additio nal contributions on Ms Ds NHS income. The 
advice NatWest gave her was in relation to making pension contributions in relation to  
Ms Ds self -employed income. And so it was entirely reasonable that NatWest advised Ms D 
that any contributions she wanted to  make in that regard would best be made into a personal 
pension plan  Ms D had little other option in terms of how to use that income to make 
provision for her retirement.  
It seems that Ms D accepted NatWests advice. So from that I would conclude that i t is most 
likely that the contributions NatWest recommended she make were affordable for her 
circumstances and that she found the projected retirement benefits to be attractive.  
I appreciate that Ms D now finds that she has less income in retirement than s he might have 
expected. I do not know how much of that is because of the advice NatWest gave to her, or 
because of the other advice she received and choices she made over the following years.  
And of course much of any shortfall might be due to changes in market conditions that have 
caused what were perfectly reasonable assumptions about investment growth at the time to 
be considerable overestimates now. But I dont consider that the advice NatW est gave to 
Ms D in 1991 was inappropriate.  
My final decision  
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
National Westminster Bank Plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D  to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.  
Paul Reilly  
Ombudsman  