DRN-3358381
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund him money he lost as a result of 
falling victim to a fraud.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr N received an email purporting to be from the DVLA containing a link. 
Mr N clicked on the link and filled in the information requested. But he later realised that this 
may have not been legitimate and contacted HSBC to advise it of the circumstances.
Later, Mr N received a telephone call from someone purporting to be from HSBCs fraud 
department; Mr N says that the call displayed HSBCs official telephone number as written 
on the back of his bank card. The caller informed Mr N that a payment was attempted on his 
account and asked him to confirm if hed carried it out. Mr N confirmed that hed not. The 
caller then told Mr N that theyd call back and issue instructions on what to do next.
Mr N received the call back, as expected. The caller told Mr N that a payment had been set 
up on his account for £10,000 and this was due to be taken at midnight. The caller told Mr N 
that theyd set up another account where his money would be safe and that he should send 
the £10,000 to the safe account via a trusted persons account. He was instructed that this 
should be done in two batches of £5,000 payments.
Mr N made a £10,000 payment to his partners account and then, while the caller was on the 
phone, made the first of the two £5,000 payments from his partners account to the safe 
account details provided. After Mr Ns partner made the initial £5,000 payment, Mr N 
became suspicious, contacted HSBC and uncovered the fraud.
HSBC looked into Mr Ns claim but decided not to reimburse the £5,000 lost. It pointed out 
that Mr N had made the initial £10,000 payment to a trusted and legitimate payee, and 
therefore felt that the bank from which the funds were sent onto the fraudster should look 
into the claim instead.
Mr N disagreed and came to our service to look into his claim again. An Investigator 
considered the evidence provided by both parties and concluded that HSBC should 
reimburse the funds lost.
They pointed out that, while the payment was initially sent to a legitimate account, the 
payment was covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM): a voluntary code 
signed up to by HSBC. When considering the complaint under this code, the Investigator 
found that Mr N was entitled to reimbursement of the money lost.
HSBC disagreed. It gave the following reasons why:
The payment wasnt unusual as it was being sent to a trusted payee that Mr N had 
paid a number of times before. It would therefore have been difficult to identify the 
payment as a concern and prevent the scam.
The CRM Code is not clear cut when dealing with multi-generational scams as the 
code wasnt drafted with these in mind. It placed emphasis on some of the wording 
used in subsequent papers written by the CRM Codes authorthe Lending 
Standards Boardhighlighting that signatories to the code would not be liable in all 
cases involving multi-generation scams. It also pointed out that the account held by 
Mr Ns partner was a signatory of the code and the Investigators view didnt 
recognise the potential of shared liability. 
Mr Ns acknowledgement of giving away personal information in a fraudulent 
phishing email, and the fact that he realised the suspicious nature of the call after the 
first payment, should have left Mr N more vigilant about the call.
Mr N didnt sufficiently question the unusual nature of the instructions he was being 
given or verify the claims the caller was making about suspicious activity on his 
account.
As HSBC disagreed with the Investigators view, the matter has now been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC argues that the CRM Code should not apply to the payment Mr N sent to his partner. 
So, it does not believe Mr N is afforded the additional protection of the CRM Code and does 
not believe it is liable to reimburse him for the loss.
I have carefully reviewed the relevant material surrounding the scope of the CRM Code in 
relation to this type of scam. In particular, that includes the wording of the CRM Code, as it 
stood at the time in question, and the Lending Standards Board comments on the 
interpretation of that wording in its November 2021 publication: Call for Input: Findings 
Report.
In that report, the LSB describes multigeneration APP scams as follows:
These scams, sometimes referred to as friends and family scams, typically involve a 
customer being duped into increasing the number of transactions and/or payees involved in 
the scam (for example, being convinced to transfer funds to a family member who in turn is 
asked to further forward them, onto the scammers account). While the funds have been 
moved to a trusted third party, in that they are a friend or family member, the payment has 
left the control of the payee. This approach seeks to evade the detection and preventative 
measures of the Code []
The report goes on to say that the investigation of such multi-generation scams is captured 
within the scope of the CRM Code.
The payment being disputed in the present complaint is one that Mr N made to his partner, 
under the misapprehension that he was acting under the legitimate instructions of his bank 
to secure his funds. I am satisfied that this payment meets the definition within the CRM 
Code of an APP scam  Mr N transferred these funds to another person for what he believed 
were legitimate purposes, but which were in fact fraudulent. 
The loss here has been sustained by Mr N, and originated in the payment journey between 
Mr Ns HSBC account and his partners account. Mr N has suffered a financial loss through 
an APP scam, and a type of APP scam that the LSB says is captured within the scope of the 
CRM Code. His partner has not suffered a financial loss, and I dont consider that the use of 
her account as a conduit fundamentally changed the form of the APP scam that Mr N fell victim to. I accept that the techniques used here by the scammer appear deliberately 
intended to evade HSBCs fraud detection and protection systems, but that does not in itself 
mean that the CRM Code ought not apply or that HSBC should not be liable.
HSBC argues that responsibility under the CRM Code should sit with, or partially with, the 
partners bank and not with it. It directed Mr N to take up the loss he has suffered with his 
partners bank. I do not agree. 
Being the party that has suffered a financial loss here, Mr N reported the matter to HSBC. 
Receiving its customers report of the scam, and in its capacity as the victims bank, HSBC 
then has the principal responsibility for investigating and responding to the scam report 
(given this is the type of multi-generation scam caught within scope of the CRM Code). I 
consider that HSBC is also then responsible under the CRM Code for both the 
reimbursement decision and for reimbursement of the victim. Leading on from this the CRM 
Code goes on to state: Once a decision to reimburse has been made, the Firm of whom the 
APP scam victim is the Customer should administer the payment of the reimbursement to 
their Customer without delay. 
HSBC also has responsibility under the CRM Code to liaise with the other firms involved 
(that is not something the CRM Code requires Mr N, as HSBCs own customer, to do).
In short, I am satisfied that the CRM Code applies here, and that HSBC has the 
responsibility under the CRM Code to respond and, where appropriate, to reimburse Mr N. I 
consider that to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
On the basis that the CRM Code does apply to Mr Ns transfer, I have therefore gone on to 
consider whether that means HSBC should have reimbursed Mr N for the loss.
Did Mr N fail to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM code?
Ive first considered if Mr N failed to take the requisite level of care required for HSBC to 
choose not to reimburse him under the terms of the CRM Code: which it has agreed to 
adhere to.
The exception set out in the CRM code that is relevant to this case is:
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
The CRM code also lists an exception whereby the customer ignored an effective warning in 
relation to the payment being made. But as no warning was given prior to the £10,000 
payment being made, this isnt relevant to this complaint.
Did Mr N have a reasonable basis for believing the payment he made was legitimate?
HSBC have made a number of arguments that Mr N ought to have known he wasnt dealing 
with a legitimate request from his bank. Ive outlined these arguments above in HSBCs 
response to the Investigators view. However, Im not persuaded HSBC has demonstrated 
Mr N didnt have a reasonable basis for belief, which permits it to refuse reimbursement 
under the code. Ill explain why.
Prior to receiving the call from the scammer, Mr N received an email purporting to be from 
the DVLA. Mr N clicked on a link within the email and provided personal information in the website he was directed to. He later realised that this may have not been genuine and 
contacted HSBC to let it know.
HSBC has argued that Mr Ns realisation that hed likely given away personal information to 
an illegitimate source should have left him more vigilant to the call he later received from 
someone claiming to be from its fraud team. But I think Mr N did show vigilance in 
questioning the caller as to how he could be assured they were legitimate. He was asked to 
compare the telephone number he was receiving the call from against the number on the 
back of his bank card. And Mr N checked this and could see that it matched. I find it 
reasonable that this would have been a convincing tactic to gain his trust. Mr N has 
highlighted that he had no idea HSBCs number could be compromised which further shows 
this was a convincing factor in his basis for believing he was legitimately dealing with HSBC. 
Furthermore, as Mr N was aware he may have shared personal details with an illegitimate 
source, and hed passed this information onto HSBC, it wouldnt then be unreasonable for 
him to receive a call from HSBCs fraud department. Im persuaded that the timeline of these 
events, along with the caller display showing HSBCs genuine number, would have provided 
a convincing deception.
HSBC has further argued that Mr Ns realisation that he may have been scammed after 
transferring £5,000 of the £10,000 from his partners account is further evidence that he 
knew the caller wasnt legitimate, but I dont agree. Fraudsters typically deploy high pressure 
tactics to skew their victims judgement, and its clear here that Mr N was concerned about 
his money being at risk. This no doubt would have impacted his ability to take a step back 
and evaluate the situation considering the urgency in which he was instructed to remove the 
funds that were at risk. I acknowledge that a request to move money from one account to 
another prior to sending it onto the safe account is odd when looking at the circumstances 
with objective hindsight. But at the time, Mr N thought he was legitimately talking with his 
bank and therefore that he was following its instruction. Hes also expressed to our service 
that personal circumstances meant that he was desperate not to lose his funds and he was 
acting swiftly to prevent this.
For the above reasons, Im not persuaded that HSBC has been able to demonstrate that 
Mr N didnt have a reasonable basis for believing he was legitimately dealing with HSBC, 
and therefore failed to meet the requisite level of care. And so it follows that HSBC is unable 
to refuse reimbursement under the code.
Putting things right
HSBC should now go ahead and reimburse Mr N the £5,000 lost as a result of the fraud. 
I agree with HSBCs submission that it would have been difficult for it to identify the payment 
as suspicious considering it was going to a trusted existing payee that Mr N had paid many 
times before. So, it should also pay 8% interest from the date it declined Mr Ns claim to the 
date it settles, rather than from the date of payment as set out by the Investigator.
Ive also considered the impact HSBCs error has had on Mr N. While I think its important to 
acknowledge that the vast proportion of the impact caused was by the fraudster who has 
committed this callous crime, Im persuaded that HSBC exacerbated this in its handling of 
the claim.
In addition to this, Mr N experienced a slight delay in having the remaining £5,000 
reimbursed to him after it was returned from his partners bank.
In recognition of this, I find that the £200 in compensation recommended by the Investigator is fair in the circumstances to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Reimburse Mr N the £5,000 lost
Pay 8% simple annual interest on the amount lost from the date it declined the claim 
to the date of settlement
Pay £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman