DRN-2968622
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that shes been unable to access benefits under her policy with Westfield 
Contributory Health Scheme trading as Westfield Health.
What happened
Miss M has medical insurance with Westfield. She said during the pandemic, its been 
difficult to access the benefits of her policy in the usual way. She explained shed brought a 
claim for her dental treatment and was unable to secure cover. Miss M made other 
observations about the lack of access to medical practitioners and said Westfield should look 
to reduce the cost of her policy. Miss M also said when she called Westfield to discuss this, 
she was told about payment holidays, which she felt should have been communicated 
overtly and proactively by the insurer. Miss M would like some or all her premiums returned, 
because she believes the policy offers little value for money. 
Westfield said Miss Ms claim was declined because shed used her benefit amount for the 
policy year. She submitted the claim shortly before the next policy year began and so there 
was no cover available in the circumstances. It also said the payment holiday was a tool it 
used to help its customers through the pandemic  although it conceded that any claims 
brought to it during a payment holiday wouldnt be accepted. Westfield said it was Miss Ms 
responsibility to reach out and let it know if there were problems making payments. And that 
it wouldnt contact its customers directly about this. 
Our investigator said Westfield hadnt done anything wrong. She agreed with its position and 
so didnt uphold this complaint. But Miss M disagreed. In summary, she said;
The investigator hasnt fully investigated her complaint because she doesnt think 
weve reached a fair outcome;
Although she originally complained about being unable to access dental treatments 
and made similar comments about her optical allowance, the issue is much 
broader than that, as Westfield has severely narrowed its scope of medical 
treatments owing to the pandemic  shed like her premiums significantly reduced 
because of this; or refunded; and
Westfield should have contacted her to tell her about the payment holiday option, like 
other firms, and been more transparent throughout the last two years. 
And so, its for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are similar to those 
already explained by the investigator. The complaint Miss M brought to this service was 
about Westfield not paying her claim for dental treatment. Shed requested that it effectively 
roll over her unused benefits because she had trouble finding a dentist, as many of them 
were only offering emergency dental work during the onset of the pandemic. 
Miss M also complained that shed incidentally discovered Westfield was able to offer 
payment holidays to its customers and she thought that was something it should have 
proactively told her about. There were several other arguments that were borne from our 
investigators findings, but I wont be answering those as I dont consider them material to 
the complaint she initially brought. It also wouldnt be fair for me to make a finding on 
something Westfield hadnt the opportunity to investigate and respond to. 
Im not persuaded by the arguments put forward by Miss M about her dental and optical 
claim. I understand the points raised about effectively rolling her benefit amount over, and 
that she feels its unfair her dental claim was declined. But I dont think this was unfair I say 
that because Miss M exhausted the amount of benefit she had. When Miss M made a claim 
for her dental treatment, shed already had a previous claim paid in the same policy year and 
therefore used up any available benefit. 
I know the latter claim was effectively two days away from the policy renewal, but that 
doesnt mean Westfield should consider it under the new policy year. Westfield hasnt made 
a mistake in declining that claim for those reasons. 
Miss M said shes been unable to access the vast majority of treatments or cover under her 
policy, but shes not gone on to explain this in any detail. Ive also not seen any evidence to 
support that shed tried to access other treatments, other than optical, and been turned 
away. I think some of her arguments here may be hypothetical  and she may have a point 
about that  but I can only consider whats actually happened and whether Westfield has 
made any errors. And so, I dont uphold that part of her complaint either. 
I should also say that I wouldnt have expected Westfield to proactively reach out to Miss M 
to explain the payment holiday. I think that would be unreasonable and unrealistic in the 
circumstances. Should Miss M have had difficulty paying her premiums, I think it reasonable 
to suggest she ought to have discussed this with Westfield. At which point, Id have expected 
it to do what it could to support her and perhaps discuss whether the payment holiday was 
right for her. I saw that this happened and Miss M was offered a payment holiday as a result. 
And so, I dont think Westfield did anything wrong there either. 
I note Miss Ms arguments about Westfield not telling her the criteria for payment holidays 
and when they should be offered to customers more broadly. But I dont think Westfield 
needed to share this information with her. I say that because its for Westfield to decide how 
to support its customers and I consider this to be a commercial decision-making process and 
not something that needed to be shared with Miss M for those reasons.  
Miss Ms point about receiving a refund of her premiums for not claiming on her policy are 
arbitrary and unfair. In regular circumstances, thats to say before the COVID-19 outbreak, 
where a policy didnt pay out, we wouldnt have expected an insurer to return the premiums 
for consumers whove not had a claim paid. Its important to remember that Westfield still 
provided cover for Miss M and were on risk throughout the time she paid her premiums. I 
dont necessarily think it fair to retrospectively consider the value of the policy with the 
benefit of hindsight in the circumstances.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman