DRN-3387534
The complaint
Mr G and Mr G complain that Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc (EIO) have unfairly 
declined a claim made under a home insurance policy.
To keep things simple, any reference to Mr G1 will mean the elder Mr G, and Mr G2 will 
refer to his son. And any reference to EIO includes any representatives or agents.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. For this reason, Ive 
summarised events.
Mr G1 and Mr G2 hold a home insurance policy with EIO. In February 2021 Mr G2 contacted 
EIO to notify it of damage to the property. EIO says he reported a significant escape of water 
 saying it was gushing  which caused extensive water damage to kitchen units, ceiling, 
and appliances, with an oven unable to turn on.
EIO said Mr G2 also said the shower unit and plumbing needed to be replaced in order to 
address the leak. And that Mr G1 would urinate and defecate in the shower due to his 
incontinence. But as the waste pipe hadnt been replaced, this had led to contamination of 
the bathroom floor, which had subsequently been walked into carpets across the home. Mr 
G2 sought to claim for replacement carpets.
Around this time, Mr G2 appointed an electrician to visit. Shortly after, Company A (a 
restoration company), attended on EIOs instruction. One of Company As electricians was 
also due to attend but Mr G2 had cancelled this.
On 22 February 2021 EIOs surveyor attended the property. He said a very minor leak had 
occurred from the shower or pipework and required minimal works. EIO reviewed this 
information and invoked its fraud condition, declining the claim and voiding the policy. It 
disputed the extent of the damage that Mr G2 had reported, and said in places the alleged 
damage was entirely implausible. In summary:
Kitchen: There was no obvious or proven damage to the kitchen or appliances, 
beyond some minor staining to the kitchen ceiling. Appliances were at least 30cm 
from the ceiling stain, and cabinets undamaged. It said the language Mr G2 had used 
(gushing out, streaming through the lights) was not consistent with the minor 
staining to the plaster. And Mr G2s comments the units have had it were not 
consistent as the cupboards were undamaged.
Bathroom: The damage was limited to making good the vinyl flooring lifted to dry the 
floor beneath. And as the leak on the waste pipe was below the shower, any 
moisture would have been contained to the area beneath the shower tray. It also 
referenced a call in which Mr G2 described the flooring as saturated, and said its 
surveyor attended on the same day and advised this wasnt the case.
Carpets: It said the lack of saturation in the bathroom meant the comments about 
contaminated water being spread across the other carpets was false and fabricated, 
and said to induce EIO to replace carpets. Also, it wasnt plausible the household 
would allow Mr G1 to continue using the bathroom with a non-functioning wastepipe 
instead of one of the other bathrooms in the home.
Appliances: It said Mr G2 had sought to claim for a replacement oven, chest freezer, 
and fridge freezer as these had been damaged. And it said he described how it had 
been necessary to purchase takeaway food as the oven was not working  which it 
paid for. It said the staining on the kitchen ceiling stopped around 40cm away from 
the fridge freezer and there was no staining above the oven. So, based upon the 
extent of the damage visible, it felt it was improbable the items claimed for suffered 
water damage, rendering them damaged beyond repair as Mr G2 had claimed.
It said Mr G2s electrician completed PAT testing on the cooker and told him it was 
fine to use. But they did not PAT test other appliances as the electrician felt it wasnt 
possible they were water damaged. EIO says this evidenced Mr G2 was fully aware 
the oven could continue to be used but he claimed for food expenses and a 
replacement oven. It said he also claimed for freezer food as a result of the fridge 
freezer no longer working whilst it was undamaged.
It also said Mr G2 told Company A his own electrician had advised that all of the 
appliances needed to be replaced. It said this was untrue based upon the report 
produced and the details they confirmed in a later phone call.
The complaint was brought to this Service and one of our Investigators looked at what 
happened. He wasnt satisfied EIO had demonstrated Mr G2 had committed fraud and said it 
should remove any internal and external markers reflecting this for the following reasons.
Kitchen: The emphasis EIO placed on Mr G2s description of the leak and units didnt 
amount to a deliberate exaggeration in order to gain more from the claim than he was 
entitled to.
Bathroom: He believed Mr G2 wasnt aware the shower tray could be lifted to resolve 
the underlying issue without replacing it.
Flooring and carpet: He felt the evidence showed the bathroom floor required drying. 
And Mr G2s comments to EIO about the floor being saturated was mis-quoted.
Appliances: He said the photographs provided show that water had spread across 
the ceiling and walls. And it was likely the water couldve reached the appliances. He 
also felt Mr G2 had acted reasonably by turning off the appliances, and his request to 
have them replaced was reasonable in light of his concern they could be impacted by 
human waste. In turn he said the request for food costs was reasonable.
So, he said EIO should settle the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy and pay 
him £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
EIO disagreed, reiterating its concerns that the claim was exaggerated, that damage was 
limited to minor staining and it was improbable the appliances had suffered water damage as 
Mr G2 had claimed.
EIO said there was no evidence to show carpets were contaminated, nor that the bathroom 
floor was saturated. It said any leaking beneath the shower tray would find a route 
downwards. As the bathroom was dried out promptly, it questioned how the spread of 
contaminated water could have taken place across carpets. And it said more weight should 
be placed on Mr G2s false statements and actions. This included:Mr G2 telling EIO his electrician had advised all appliances needed to be replaced  
which was shown to be false when it asked the electrician.
Mr G2 saying his cooker did not work, which has been shown to be untrue.
Mr G2 telling Company As technician that he was given authority by the EIO loss 
adjuster to dispose of appliances, which was untrue. It said this was an attempt to 
deceive the technician to prevent it inspecting and validating the claim. And Mr G2 
had cancelled Company As electrician from attending without any authority which 
casts suspicion on his intentions.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. So, the complaint was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional thoughts on 8 March 2022, and explained 
why I didnt intend on upholding the complaint. Ive included an extract below.
EIO has relied on its fraud condition to void this policy. This says:
If a claim made by you or anyone acting on your behalf, or any other person 
claiming to obtain benefit under this policy, is fraudulent or exaggerated, 
whether ultimately material or not, or if any damage is caused by your wilful 
act or with your connivance we may at our option:
(a) repudiate the claim;
(b) recover any payments already made by us in respect of the claim;
(c) cancel the policy from the date of the fraudulent act and retain the 
premium due for the unexpired period of insurance from the date of 
cancellation up to the renewal date. 
If we cancel the policy we will notify you in writing, by special delivery to your 
last known address.
Generally, for an act to be fraudulent the person doing it will be saying something 
that:
They do not honestly believe is true, or they are reckless about whether it is 
true or not, and
Will be saying it to make a personal gain for themselves (or another).
Ive kept this in mind when considering the concerns EIO has raised about Mr G2, 
which Ive outlined above. For clarity, EIO has said it recognises Mr G1s (as a joint 
policyholder) complex health needs and said its concerns only concern Mr G2.
Ive considered each of the concerns EIO has raised in turn.
Notification of the damage / kitchen and appliance damage
Ive listened carefully to the initial call Mr G2 has with EIOs agent in which he 
describes the loss. In this call he describes the leak as streaming and as gushing.
The surveyor who attended said This property has suffered no more than a very 
minor leak from the shower / pipework.
Having looked carefully at the photos of damage, Im in agreement the water leak 
appears to have been very limited. The staining suggests the water ingress appeared 
in narrow intersecting straight lines from the centre of the ceiling. These extend to at 
least one wall, with several stain marks down the wall. So, I dont think Mr G2s 
descriptions of the ingress were likely accurate or indicative of either streaming or 
gushing water.Also, within the notification call Mr G2 says he tried to turn the oven on, but it 
wouldnt turn on. This is suggested as a result of the leak. And he says water was 
coming in behind the fridge freezer. So, he turned off all the electrics for safety 
reasons.
Its not disputed that the oven was PAT tested and was functional by Mr G2s own 
electrician. This same electrician has also said he didnt need to PAT test the fridge 
freezer or chest freezer as he didnt think it was possible, they couldve suffered 
water damage.
Having looked over the photos with this in mind, the water damage that reached the 
walls appears minimal. And I would agree it seems unlikely the appliances couldve 
been damaged in the way Mr G2 has suggested. There is also no technical or expert 
opinion supporting that this was possible.
Mr G2s electrician also explained he had been to the property several months before 
related to the cooker causing the RCD (within the fuse box) tripping. At this time, he 
said he had noticed signs of water penetration to the cooker isolator switch which he 
said he explained to Mr G2. This was prior to any leak from the bathroom above.
So, I think EIOs concerns about the cooker allegedly not functioning on the day of 
the leak are valid. And I dont think Mr G2 has given a reasonable explanation as to 
why the cooker allegedly stopped functioning only to work again without need for 
repair  particularly given he was seeking to claim for a replacement and the 
consequences of its loss.
EIO has also mentioned Mr G2s comments that the kitchen units as having had it 
due to the water ingress. Im in agreement again that the water leak appears to have 
had limited impact to the units. I also note that subsequently they appear 
undamaged.
Bathroom, flooring and carpets
EIO has said theres no evidence to support Mr G2s allegations the carpets were 
contaminated with urine, nor that the bathroom floor was saturated. Ive listened to 
Mr G2s call with EIO discussing this matter and I think its concerns are valid.
Put simply, the leak in question was within the wastepipe under the shower tray. As a 
result, the water has travelled downwards into the kitchen ceiling. Ive been given no 
evidence or reasoning as to how this wastewater wouldve made its way up onto the 
bathroom vinyl floor, or the floorboards when the vinyl was lifted. Or at very least, 
even if water had somehow escaped from the shower during or after use onto the 
floor, how this was related to the leaking wastepipe beneath the tray as he has 
suggested.
In the absence of plausible explanation, I think EIOs decision that this part of the 
claim was exaggerated is fair.
EIO has questioned why other bathrooms could not be used by Mr G1 to mitigate the 
loss. While this seems a logical step in most cases, Im aware Mr G1 has complex 
medical needs so I appreciate this may not have been possible.
Ive taken into account EIOs allegation that Mr G2 had said the bathroom floor was 
saturated on the same day as it attended, and it was dry. Having listened to the call in question, Im in agreement with our Investigator that Mr G2 had acknowledged this 
was now dry and talked about the saturation in the past tense.
Other concerns
EIO says Mr G2 told a Company A technician that he was given authority by the EIO 
loss adjuster to dispose of appliances  which was untrue. Ive seen commentary 
from the EIO and Company A representative that confirms this. Ive seen nothing 
from Mr G2 that explains this, so I think EIOs concerns that these actions wouldve 
prevented it from validating the claim are valid.
Mr G2 also cancelled Company As electrician from attending without seeking any 
authority from EIO or its representatives. I understand Mr G2 has said this was to 
prevent unnecessary people from attending the property as his family was shielding 
at the time.
However, I wouldve expected this concern to be shared with EIO for it to determine 
whether this was necessary. And I think in the absence of this, I can see why it 
concerned EIO. Particularly in light of the other concerns described, and that this 
action may have prevented the inspection of allegedly not functioning/damaged 
appliances that were subsequently determined to be both functional and without any 
material damage.
I concluded that EIO had acted fairly when determining Mr G2 has acted fraudulently, and by 
relying on its policy terms to decline the claim and void the policy. I gave both parties until 22 
March 2022 to respond. 
EIO said it agreed with the decision. Mr G2 responded to say he disagreed. He said some of 
his comments were made within his initial panic and not mentioned again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still not upholding this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Mr G2s response that his initial comments about gushing water 
or damage to cabinets may have been said in an initial panic. However, even if I agreed this 
was a reasonable explanation to answer some of the concerns raised by EIO, this 
explanation simply doesnt answer or explain the remaining concerns raised.
For instance, its unclear to me why any initial panic would lead Mr G2 to report his oven 
wouldnt work when it appears to have been functional and unaffected by the water leak. Nor 
would it explain any of the concerns about the bathroom floor damage, comments about the 
disposal of appliances or cancelling the electrician from attending, all of which Ive outlined in 
detail above.
So, for all of these reasons, Ive not changed my mind and Im still satisfied EIO has acted 
fairly when determining Mr G2 has acted fraudulently, and by relying on its policy terms to 
decline the claim and void the policy.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman