DRN-3068417
The complaint
Mr I complains that Monzo Bank Ltd failed to refund several transactions that he disputed 
making.
What happened
Mr I told our service that he was parking his car and was approached by two men who 
purported to be traffic wardens. They told him that he needed to buy a ticket and led him 
over to a ticket machine. Mr I described putting his debit card into the machine, which 
swallowed his card and the men left. Mr I suspected that the men had skimmed his card 
and stolen it. Shortly after, Mr I noticed three transactions had been made from his account, 
including a withdrawal from an Automated Teller Machine (ATM). Mr I was using his Monzo 
app at the time when the payments appeared.
Mr I explained that he didnt know how to cancel his card using his Monzo app, stating on his 
complaint form I struggle with online items because of my old age i was only able to seek 
help when i reached home 20 minutes later. Hes stated that he then called his son, who 
arranged for it to be cancelled with Monzo.
Mr I told Monzo that he hadnt entered his Personal Identification Number (PIN) into the 
machine. He remarked that he couldnt understand how these men had managed to use his 
card without the PIN. Mr I confirmed that he hadnt used his card that day. He also told 
Monzo that he waited for five minutes at the machine, which he believed had a device 
attached to it.
The loss of the card was reported to the police and Action Fraud and Mr Is son attempted to 
gather evidence from one of the merchants where the card had been used. Monzo 
investigated the circumstances and told Mr I that he would be refunded. They later accepted 
that they shouldnt have told Mr I that he would be getting a refund at that stage of their 
investigation and later offered £75 for misleading Mr I. Monzo later held Mr I liable for the 
transactions because they didnt believe the transactions were as a result of fraud and 
notified Mr I that they were going to close his account and gave two months notice of this 
closure. 
Mr I brought his complaint to our service and it was looked into by one of our investigators. 
Mr I was represented throughout his complaint. His representative explained that Mr I was 
approached by two men and told hed need to purchase a ticket because a camera had 
spotted him parking. He further explained that the men had a Chip and PIN machine with 
them, and they took Mr Is debit card out of his hands, before saying it wasnt working and 
walking away. Mr Is representative confirmed that Mr I hadnt entered his PIN into the 
machine, that he hadnt given it to anyone or had it written down anywhere.
Mr Is representative also explained that Mr I had tried to call him at the time, but couldnt get 
through because he was at work, so had to wait until he got home. Mr Is representative said 
that Mr I struggles with his English and he questioned why Mr I didnt receive any 
confirmation about one of the transactions which was out of character for the way Mr I used 
his account. 
Our investigator concluded that because there was no compromise of the PIN, it was 
unlikely that someone else could have authorised the transactions and didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr Is representative disagreed with the outcome and said that hed asked Mr I to try and 
recollect what happened. Mr I then said he thought he may have entered his PIN number 
into the machine, but he was being distracted by one of the men. Mr Is representative later 
wrote that Mr I now believed hed entered his PIN number and said that the men were 
rushing him at the time.
Mr Is representative was able to clarify that Mr I put his card in a black card reader that was 
presented to him, and the two men waited for a few minutes before leaving with the card 
reader and Mr Is card.
Mr Is representative asked for a review of the complaint and its been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Monzo can hold Mr I liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, 
Monzo have supplied evidence that shows the genuine card and PIN were used to make the 
transactions. Im satisfied that the evidence shows all the disputed transactions were 
authenticated. 
Consent refers to the way in which Monzo and Mr I agreed to use the card for transactions. 
For example, when using the card and PIN together, Monzo agree to accept that this is a 
legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder or another approved user and make 
the payment on their behalf. The transactions in this case used the genuine card and the 
correct PIN, so Im satisfied that consent was given, and the disputed transactions were 
authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for Monzo to hold Mr I 
responsible, for example if the card was used without his permission.
The crux of this complaint is whether or not the PIN was entered into the ticket machine that 
Mr I referred to. Thats because without the PIN number, its unlikely that thieves would be 
able to correctly guess the PIN at the first attempt, which is what happened here. 
Monzos chat record shows that Mr I reported the loss shortly after the disputed transactions 
were made and carried on with the chat the next morning. In those chats he tells Monzo that 
he didnt enter his PIN into the machine and remarks that he couldnt understand how these 
men had managed to use the card without the PIN. Mr I also said he was walked over to a 
ticket machine and believes these men had a device attached to it that took his card.
Mr Is representative told our investigator a different version of events about the machine, 
stating that Mr I was presented with a device that he took to be a card machine. So, Mr I 
originally said that he was walked across the road to put his card into a ticket machine  this sounds like a more permanent structure that would be recognised as a normal parking ticket 
machine. But, this was later described as a card reader  a black box. The way this was 
described sounds more like a modern wireless card reader. These are quite different 
versions of what happened at the time, although I recognise that some time had passed 
when describing the events to our service. 
Mr Is representative first told our service that Mr I hadnt put his PIN number into the 
machine, nor had he given it to anyone or made any other transactions that day. After our 
investigator issued her report, Mr I thought he may have entered his PIN, but was rushed 
and distracted by these men. In later correspondence, he was more confident about putting 
his PIN into the machine  but acknowledged that it was hard to remember, and he was 
being rushed by these men.
So, when Ive considered this complaint, I have to assess the evidence and where there is a 
dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I must reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Mr Is recollection of events has changed and I recognise that with time passing, its much 
harder to recollect the specifics of an event. Mr I has also told us that his age has added to 
the difficulties in remembering what happened. So, in coming to a conclusion on what was 
the most likely version of events, the record of the chat with Monzo within 24 hours of the 
event seems more reliable, because the events were fresher for Mr I, rather than those from 
several months later.
What that means here is that Mr I said, on several occasions, that he didnt enter his PIN into 
any machine, whether that was a ticket machine or a card reader. Because there was no 
PIN entered, and there were no opportunities that day for someone to obtain the PIN from 
earlier use  its unlikely that an unknown third party could correctly guess the correct PIN on 
the first attempt. 
Without the PIN, the transactions couldnt have been made. Theres no plausible explanation 
that Ive been able to consider that allows an unknown third party to obtain Mr Is card and 
use it without knowing the PIN. And because there were no failed PIN attempts, that means 
whoever used the card - knew the PIN number. 
Whilst Im sure Mr I will disagree with me, the evidence that Ive considered leads me to the 
conclusion that, on the balance of probabilities, it was more likely than not that Mr I 
authorised or allowed his card details to be used to make the payments. So, taking 
everything into account, I think it is fair and reasonable for Monzo to hold Mr I responsible for 
both transactions. 
Mr I, through his representative commented that because one of the transactions was 
unusual, Monzo should have notified Mr I about it. This particular transaction used an offline 
pin verified  procedure which means the terminal used to make the transaction wasnt 
connected to the internet at the time, so it wouldnt have been apparent to Monzo when it 
was entered into the machine until it re-connected with Monzos systems. But, because this 
transaction used the genuine card and PIN, I dont think Monzo had to do anything further 
because they believed Mr I was using the card or had given his permission to use it. As Ive 
already made a finding that I think Mr I was more than likely responsible for these 
transactions, any additional notice about them wouldnt have altered the situation.
Monzo told Mr I that they were closing his account and under the terms of the agreement, 
Monzo can close it as long as they give two months notice, which they did when they issued 
their final response letter. The two months notice is to allow account holders to make alternative arrangements for their banking. Both parties are able to choose to close the 
account and because Monzo followed the terms of the agreement, I dont think it was unfair 
for Monzo to close the account in this way.
Monzo initially told Mr I that hed receive a refund, but this information was incorrect. Monzo 
recognised that they should have looked into the circumstances in more depth before giving 
Mr I this information and they offered £75 for misleading him. I think this was a reasonable 
way for Monzo to recognise their mistake and I wont be asking them to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman