DRN-2714920
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited cancelled their buildings and
contents insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a buildings insurance policy with Lloyds. And they made a claim after their 
home was broken into.
Throughout the claims process, Mr H was unhappy with the way the claim was being
handled and expressed his concerns on multiple occasions to the main adviser handling his
claim. He also expressed his frustrations to, and with contractors involved in the claim. And
as the claim progressed, Mr Hs frustrations grew and his relationship with Lloyds
deteriorated.
In mid-July 2019, Mr H called Lloyds and used an aggressive tone and language with one of
Lloyds advisers. Following this call, Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs H giving them 14 days
notice of the cancellation of their policy. Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with this decision and
raised a complaint.
Lloyds investigated Mr and Mrs Hs concerns before issuing their final response in
August 2019. In this they explained their decision remained the same as the cancellation
was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy, so
they brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs H complaint and felt it should be upheld. She said
Lloyds should have told Mr and Mrs H they could cancel the policy themselves. And as
Lloyds hadnt done that, she didnt think it was fair for a cancellation to be recorded against
Mr and Mrs H. 
Lloyds disagreed with our investigator. They said Mr and Mrs H would have been aware they
could cancel their policy as they would have received a copy of the policy terms and
conditions. They also maintained the policy had been cancelled in line with those terms and
conditions. As Lloyds disagreed with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me to 
look into.
I issued my provisional decision on 29 January 2021. In this, I said I was minded to uphold 
this complaint, but for different reasons to our investigator. I explained that I was satisfied 
Mr and Mrs H would have known they could cancel their policy, so that wasnt a reason to 
uphold their complaint. However, I wasnt minded to agree Lloyds acted fairly by not allowing 
Mr and Mrs H to cancel the policy themselves.
 
Mr and Mrs H and Lloyds had until 25 February 2021 to provide me with any points and/or 
evidence for me to consider. Mr and Mrs H agreed with my provisional decision, but Lloyds 
didnt. Lloyds said they felt I had only considered the mid-July 2019 call when reaching my 
decision and explained their decision to cancel the policy was based on Mr Hs behaviour 
over a period time. They also provided me with confidential notes to support their position.
Ive considered everything again, alongside the information and points provided after my 
provisional decision. And having done so, my decision remains the same and Ill explain my 
reasoning below. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im upholding this complaint. I know this isnt the outcome 
Lloyds hoped for, but Ill explain my reasons below.
Lloyds sent us a copy of Mr and Mrs Hs policy. Under the general conditions of the policy
there is a heading called Cancellation which says:
We can cancel your policy by giving you 14 days written notice at your last known address
if:

You use threatening or aggressive language, violence or aggressive behaviour
against our staff, contractors or property.
Given this term, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Hs policy could be cancelled if Lloyds staff were 
subjected to inappropriate behaviour.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy was cancelled following a call between Mr H and one of Lloyds
advisers in mid-July 2019. Our investigator felt this complaint should be upheld because
Mr and Mrs H werent told by Lloyds they could cancel the policy themselves. However,
I dont agree with this reasoning.
Firstly, I agree with Lloyds that Mr and Mrs H would have been provided with a copy of the
terms and conditions of their policy. This means they had the necessary documentation that
explained when and how they could cancel their policy. But most importantly, Im satisfied
Mr and Mrs H were aware they could ask to cancel their policy. I say this because Ive seen
written correspondence from Mr H and his loss adjuster asking for the policy to be cancelled.
Ive also heard a recording of a call between Mr H and Lloyds where he asked for the
opportunity to cancel the policy himself if Lloyds werent prepared to change their mind about
the policy being cancelled. So, what Ive had to decide is whether Lloyds treated
Mr and Mrs H fairly when they refused to allow Mr and Mrs H to cancel their policy
themselves after they were given notice.
Lloyds disagreed with my provisional decision because they felt I had only taken the        
mid-July 2019 call into account. However, my provisional decision said I considered that call 
to be the main trigger for the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Hs policy. I also explained I had 
reached that conclusion because I had seen limited information that showed Lloyds had 
taken steps to give Mr H clear warnings about his behaviour before giving notice of 
cancellation. My provisional decision also said information from Lloyds and Mr Hs own 
testimony persuaded me that the mid-July 2019 call wasnt the only occasion Mr H 
demonstrated inappropriate behaviours. My decision was clear on this point, so I dont agree 
with Lloyds assertion that I hadnt taken the whole situation into account.Since my provisional decision, Lloyds sent us confidential information to support their 
decision to cancel Mr Hs policy. This information detailed that Mr Hs behaviour had been 
inappropriate on a few occasions over the phone and with their contractors. They also sent 
us information confirming the impact Mr Hs behaviour had on one of their claims handlers. 
Having seen this information, it confirmed what I alluded to in my provisional decision  that 
Mr H had demonstrated unacceptable behaviour on several occasions. So, with that in mind, 
Lloyds were entitled to decide if they wanted to continue providing cover, given the term 
detailed above. And this is something I would expect them do as they have a duty to protect 
the wellbeing of their staff. But when making such decisions, I would expect a financial 
business to consider whether cancellation is the only option, or if there are alternative ways 
to communicate with a policyholder, whether there is a legitimate reason for a policyholders 
behaviour, the impact cancellation will have on the policyholder(s)  to name a few.
Lloyds has maintained the wellbeing of their staff is a priority. And having listened to the mid-
July 2019 call, I understand why they wanted to take steps to protect their staff. I appreciate 
Mr H and his family had been through a difficult time  especially as they have a young child, 
and so he would have been worried and frustrated. However, the language and the tone 
used by him in that call was unacceptable. And I would have expected some form of 
consequence following that call  but Ive had to decide if the resulting consequences were 
fair.
Im aware Lloyds consider Ive put too much weight on the mid-July 2019 call. However, I do 
think its important because ultimately this call was the final straw for Lloyds; and played an 
important part in their decision to cancel Mr and Mrs Hs policy. While the evidence provided 
by Lloyds showed a number of instances of inappropriate behaviour were taken into 
consideration, it didnt show that Lloyds felt compelled to cancel the policy before this call. 
I say this because the statement from Lloyds claims handler said she had spoken to her 
manager about Mr Hs behaviour, however it doesnt seem that conversation immediately led 
to Mr H being sent a warning or notice of cancellation being issued to both policyholders. So, 
Lloyds own actions placed some emphasis on the mid-July 2019 call in the same way I have 
in my decision.
Since this complaint came to our service, Mr H told us the stress and worry from the break in 
had a significant impact on his mental health. And he was dealing with a mental health 
condition he had never suffered from before and wasnt aware he was unwell for some time. 
And this played a part in his behaviour being out of character. I cant see that Lloyds were 
made aware of Mr Hs illness at the time they decided to cancel his policy. So, I can 
understand why that didnt form a part of their decision making. But had Lloyds been aware 
of this, its most likely this is something they would have taken into consideration at the time 
because the information they provided confirmed this. Having said that, I also havent seen 
anything to show they took steps to determine whether Mr H needed additional support 
before cancelling the policy  particularly given the behaviours he demonstrated. I consider 
this is important given the way Mr H reacted after the mid-July 2019 call.
Following the contentious call, Mr H called Lloyds back and he spoke to a different advisor. 
In this call he apologised for the way he handled the previous call  and I consider his 
apology sounded genuine. I think this call is important as it demonstrates Mr H quickly 
became aware that he had done the wrong thing and took steps to try and put things right. 
And he did so without the intervention of Lloyds. Had the situation been the other way 
around I would have expected Lloyds to do something similar  so I must put weight on 
Mr Hs actions following his abrupt call. I also consider his decision to apologise so swiftly 
goes some way in supporting what hes told us about his mental health at the time.Having reviewed everything, its clear the relationship between Mr and Mrs H and Lloyds had
broken down  on both sides. So, for me, the key thing in this case is that both parties were
happy for their relationship to come to an end. And given the circumstances detailed above,
I dont consider its necessary or particularly fair for Mr and Mrs H to have to declare a 
cancelled policy.
In Lloyds submission to our service, they used an example of cancelling a policy after a
policyholder had committed fraud. And in those circumstances, they didnt think it would be
right for the cancellation not to be recorded. While I agree that may be appropriate for that
scenario, when deciding on this complaint I can only consider the specific circumstances
brought to us. Having done so, I dont agree Mr Hs actions are comparable to that of
someone who knowingly committed fraud. So, that argument doesnt persuade me that it
was necessary for Lloyds to cancel Mr and Mrs H policy. Ive also had to consider that 
Lloyds decision to record a cancellation may have an impact on Mrs Hs ability, as an 
individual, to get insurance despite not being responsible for the direction the
mid-July 2019 call took, nor did she act inappropriately with Lloyds members of staff.
Ultimately, Lloyds no longer provides cover for Mr and Mrs H, and Mr and Mrs H no longer
need to have dealings with Lloyds. I consider this is an outcome suitable for both parties.
Mr H has shown remorse for his behaviour, and I consider the cancellation of the policy
should have been recorded as if it was cancelled at Mr and Mrs Hs request.
Putting things right
Lloyds have confirmed that only their internal systems have a record of the way 
Mr and Mrs Hs policy was cancelled. Given that I consider Mr and Mrs H should have been 
allowed to cancel their policy, Lloyds should write to Mr and Mrs Hs new building and 
contents insurer to explain their Lloyds policy should have been classified as having been 
cancelled by Mr and Mrs H. It should also explain their premiums should be recalculated if 
they were affected by Lloyds cancellation.
Lloyds should also provide Mr and Mrs H a letter each, outlining the same so that 
Mr and Mrs H can send them to any other of their insurers who may have taken this 
cancellation into account when calculating premiums. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
To put things right Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited should:
write to Mr and Mrs Hs new buildings and contents insurer explaining they cancelled 
their Lloyds policy and their premiums will need to be recalculated if they were 
affected by Lloyds cancellation; and
give Mr and Mrs H a letter each that they can send to any other insurers who may 
have taken Lloyds cancellation into account when calculating premiums. And this 
letter should explain Mr and Mrs Hs Lloyds policy was cancelled by them, and not 
Lloyds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Sarrah TurayOmbudsman