DRN-2538100
The complaint
Mr B complains that a pension contribution was delayed by Vanguard Asset Management, 
Ltd (Vanguard) and missed being received in the tax year he wished. 
What happened
Mr B said he tried to make a pension contribution payment on 3 April 2020. It had failed but 
his account display was misleading, and he thought it had gone through. He said Vanguard 
shouldve called him to tell him the payment hadnt gone through either on or before Sunday 
5 April 2020. He made the payment on the Friday and wouldve expected Vanguard to make 
contact within 48 hours to tell him his payment was still pending.
Vanguard said it checked its internal records and these showed the cash transaction didnt 
proceed and was given a general decline code with no further reason. The payment had 
remained pending on the account until it was manually cancelled on 6 April 2020. This 
meant it missed the 2019/20 tax year allowance for contributions. It didnt affect the account 
balance as it never cleared into his account. When this happens Mr B would either have 
received an error message or payment decline message under the cash statement for the 
account with an option to try again. It said it had found the problem was often caused by an 
internet browser issue, connectivity or if a card is used that isnt in the name of the account 
holder. It didnt know which issue had caused the problem. Whatever the cause it wasnt at 
fault so wouldnt uphold his complaint. 
The investigator said Mr B wanted to make an online payment to his pension on 3 April 
2020, but it didnt go through. He thought Vanguard had acted appropriately. Vanguards 
records showed the payment was never completed so it was neither a successful or 
unsuccessful transaction. Instead it remained pending until 6 April when it was cancelled. 
Unfortunately, Mr B didnt realise the payment would remain pending for so long. As it wasnt 
technically a failed payment, he wasnt sent any notification. There was no evidence to 
suggest that the cause of the transaction remaining pending was Vanguards fault. By the 
time it was cancelled on 6 April the deadline for the last tax year had passed. Its action in 
cancelling the payment on 6 April wouldnt have made any difference to the payment being 
received before the tax deadline. He didnt think it was realistic to expect Vanguard to call on 
a non-working Saturday or Sunday to tell Mr B his payment was still pending. He couldnt 
see any evidence to show the value of the fund had increased to reflect the payment, so he 
didnt think there was evidence the account balance had increased to reflect the payment 
before 6 April 2020. As there was no evidence to suggest Vanguard were responsible, he 
didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said he wouldve expected Vanguard to backdate the payment to the 
previous tax year. He said when he made his payment, the payment and the tax uplift 
amount were both visible and confirmed but Vanguard hadnt commented on this. The 
investigator said he wouldnt expect Vanguard to do that and there was no evidence it was at 
fault. He also said that Vanguard had advised that his payment wasnt reflected in his 
account balance and provided a statement that showed his account balance before and after 
3 April 2019. This showed there were no changes to his account balance as a result of the 
attempted payment.
Vanguard added that debit card transactions via its website were processed by a third-party 
electronic payment vendor. It relied on a digital code confirming whether the payment was 
successful but there was a set timeframe for receipt of the code. If the code wasnt received 
in time it would delay updating to the client account. When it receives a debit card payment it 
normally saves the transaction and creates a cash expectation which allows the client to 
complete the transaction using the pay now function. This option is available 24 hours a day, 
if it isnt completed within 24 hours the cash expectation disappears or is removed manually. 
Mr B made an attempt on Friday 3 April. The reconciliation on Monday 6 April removed the 
cash expectation as payment had not been received. Mr B then made a successful payment 
on 6 April, but it couldnt be backdated as the tax year end had passed. Because it was the 
tax year end its phone lines were open over the weekend. As they were an execution only 
self-service platform they wouldnt normally call or message clients who have had a failed 
payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to make any award against Vanguard I need first to decide that it has done 
something wrong. I have reviewed the papers, but I am unable to find any evidence that it 
did. 
I say that because I can see copy internal correspondence with its technical team seeking 
detailed evidence of what happened. This didnt show any evidence to suggest the account 
balance was updated and the explanation provided is that already set out.
I have considered Mr Bs argument that Vanguard shouldve contacted him to tell him the 
payment had not gone through. But I dont agree for several reasons. Firstly, it is an 
execution only service so isnt responsible for advising Mr B or ensuring his contributions 
were received within a timescale. But even if I was wrong in that conclusion the following two 
days before the tax year end were over the weekend and not normal working days for the 
whole office. So even if it shouldve called it wouldnt have done so out of normal working 
hours. 
It has also emerged Vanguard wouldve answered incoming calls over that weekend. As the 
telephone lines were open Mr B couldve called to check the payment had gone through.
I note also that when Mr B reattempted the payment online on 6 April it again did not 
proceed, and Mr B had to make the on-line payment again while on the phone with 
Vanguard. 
Unfortunately, as Mr B had left the payment to the very last business day of the tax year 
there was no room for error. But that isnt Vanguards fault.
I have also considered whether Vanguard shouldve backdated the payment to the previous 
tax year. But I think it has a duty to report to HMRC accurately. The payment was received 
on 6 April and I think it was correct to report it in that way.
So, I dont think there is evidence that Vanguard was at fault.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5  April 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman