DRN-3420076
The complaint
Mr A complains about the advice Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave to him 
concerning transferring the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr A to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading Ill refer to the representatives comments as being his.
What happened
In 2011 Portal contacted Mr A and offered to give him advice about his pension and 
retirement needs. Portal then gathered information about the funds available in his DB 
scheme. 
On 28 November 2011, Portal wrote to Mr A. It said that his DB scheme had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £37,151 and a critical yield ((the growth rate required to 
match the benefits from is DB scheme) of 12%. It gave Mr A three options:
 Do nothing 
 Pension Release. This would allow Mr A to take tax free cash (TFC) of up to £9,287 
and to reinvest the residual amount.
 Take TFC of up to £9,287 and use the residual fund to produce a taxable income.
Portal asked Mr A to contact it to discuss his options. On 15 December 2011 Portal spoke 
with Mr A. It completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr As circumstances and 
objectives. It found that:
 Mr A was aged 57, married with one child.
 He had a yearly income of £26,000 plus £150 a month pension income.
 He owned his home while still paying a mortgage on it of £110,000
 He had an outstanding interest free credit card balance of around £10,000 which he 
was repaying at around £50 a month.. 
 His chosen retirement age was 65.
 Mr A wanted access to his TFC but that he didnt need to take an income from his 
pension for seven or eight years so liquidity wasnt important to him.
Portal wrote to Mr A that day. It repeated that his DB scheme had a CETV of £37,151 from 
which Mr A could release £9,278 in TFC. It said that as the critical yield was 12% it would be 
against its recommendation for Mr A to transfer out of the scheme. It said that by doing so, 
Mr A would be giving up a guaranteed pension of £2,716 a year payable at age 65. It added 
that if Mr A still wished to proceed he could do so on an insistent client basis. It also said 
that if he wished to proceed he should reply immediately as the DB scheme may have a 
time-limit to guarantee the CETV.
Portal included a form for Mr A to sign in order to proceed if he wished. It also enclosed an 
insistent client form for him to sign. That said he understood that the critical yield of 12% 
was unlikely to be matched; he would be giving up guaranteed benefits; that hed be worse 
off in retirement; and that he wanted to proceed. 
A week later, on 22 December 2011, Portal sent Mr A its suitability report, which it called a 
pension release report. The report repeated that as Mr A would be giving up guaranteed 
benefits by transferring out of the DB scheme, and as the critical yield was unlikely to be 
met, it was treating Mr A as an insistent client.
The suitability report summarised Mr As objectives as follows, to:
 Use his existing pension plans to take TFC immediately.
 Keep funds invested until he needed a retirement income. 
 Ensure he had a good awareness of investment opportunities available.
 Ensure his investment portfolio reflected his Risk & Reward profile.
 Have access to a system which would monitor the performance of investments.
 Be kept informed of the performance of his portfolio.
The report went on to say:
You have stated that the highest priority for your retirement is to preserve your fund for as 
long as possible, currently taking no income while retaining the flexibility of your pension 
fund and to take your Tax Free Cash. You have also stated that maximising your pension 
income by remaining invested is very important too
You would like to cash in the maximum amount available from your pension as you would 
like [to] help your family out.
The suitability report gave Mr As attitude to risk as moderately adventurous, which it 
described like this:
Moderately Adventurous investors typically have moderate to high levels of financial 
knowledge and will usually keep up to date on financial issues. They will usually be fairly 
experienced investors, who have used a range of investment products in the past.
In general, Moderately Adventurous investors are willing to take on investment risk and 
understand that this is crucial in terms of generating long-term return. They are willing to 
take risk with a substantial proportion of their available assets.
Moderately Adventurous investors will usually take gambles where they see the potential 
rewards as being attractive. They will usually be able to make up their minds on financial 
matters quite quickly. While they can suffer from regret when their decisions turn out badly, 
they are usually able to accept that occasional poor outcomes are a necessary part of long-
term investment.
Under a heading of Recommendations the report repeated that Portal was treating Mr A as 
an insistent client. But it also said that as he understood the risks of transferring from his DB 
scheme it was making a recommendation that he transfer his pension funds into a named 
SIPP. It said the reason for this recommendation was because the potential benefits in 
retirement with that SIPP provider seemed likely to exceed the benefits with other providers 
after Mr A had taken TFC. It added that:
By following this recommendation, you will:
Receive your Tax Free Cash lump sum of circa £9,288.
To help your family out. 
Structure your portfolio to match your current Risk & Reward profile.Have greater long-term flexibility to maintain your pension in line with your 
risk/reward profile.
The investment portfolio Portal recommended to Mr A  apart from 10% held in cash  was 
made up of five unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS). These are investments 
schemes in which funds dont follow the regulators rules on the type and spread of 
investments.
In January 2012 Mr A signed the appropriate forms to transfer his DB scheme funds to the 
named SIPP. Although, for reasons that arent clear, the transfer didnt take place until 
August 2012. At that time the DB scheme transferred £39,836 into Mr As SIPP. Mr A 
subsequently took £9,959 TFC.
Portal sent Mr A an investment update in September 2015. In summary it explained that 
some of the investments hadnt performed as initially expected. But, it also referred to the 
strenuous efforts the schemes were making to return Mr As capital together with the 
growth he was entitled to, earlier than expected.
In July 2018 the SIPP provider wrote to Mr A. It said that his SIPP would produce an income 
of zero. It also said that the total value of his SIPP was £7, including a sum of £1.20 still 
remaining in the UCIS investments .
In August 2019 Portal wrote again to Mr A. It said that because of the illiquid nature of some 
of the funds it had advised him to invest in, Portal would pay him the income he could have 
expected to receive from those, while Portal was still trying to recover his capital. Portals 
statement showed that the remaining value of Mr As UCIS investments was £0.76.
In December 2020 Mr B complained to Portal about the suitability of the advice to transfer 
his pension, as far as I'm aware Portal didnt reply to that complaint. In January 2021 he 
brought his complaint to us. He said, amongst other things that:
 Given the valuable benefits available from his DB scheme Portal shouldnt have 
advised him to transfer out of it.
 Mr A had a cautious attitude to risk but Portal recommended he invest in high-risk 
products.
 He had lost out financially as a result.
One of our investigators looked into it. She initially didnt think that Portal had done anything 
wrong. But, after reviewing Mr As appeal against her view, she changed her assessment. 
She said she didnt think Portal had followed a fair insistent client process and 
recommended that it pay Mr A compensation.
Portal disagreed, it said that the regulators rules our investigator had referred to weren't in 
place at the time it gave advice to Mr A. Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her 
opinion, so the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulators position
The FCA says in its Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption 
for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. In this case, it seems that Portal 
considered a transfer value analysis system (TVAS) report. Portal hasnt provided us with a 
copy of that TVAS, but it has recorded that Mr A was unlikely to be better off than if he 
remained in the scheme. And it advised Mr A against making the transfer. But it noted that 
as he wanted to go ahead anyway it could arrange that but would treat him as an insistent 
client. It might help if I explain that where a consumer decides to proceed with an investment 
against a financial adviser's advice then the consumer is known as an insistent client.
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of 
insistent clients. But there were COBS rules in the regulators Handbook which required 
Portal to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
client. In addition, COBS required Portal to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. So, Portals recommendation had to be clear and Mr A had to have understood 
the consequences of going against the recommendation.
Was Portals advice presented fairly?
While Portals communication with Mr A did set out that its recommendation for him was not 
to proceed with the transfer, I think this was seriously undermined by the process it followed 
in offering advice and also in the statements it made.
For example, when it wrote to Mr A on 28 November 2011, two of the three options it put to 
him involved him taking TFC of almost £9,300. So it likely raised his expectations at that 
point that he could have entitlement to a significant lump sum. But that was before it 
gathered any real knowledge of Mr As situation and whether or not it might be in Mr As best 
interests to have such a large sum dangled in front of him. Similarly, after speaking with Mr A 
on 15 December 2011 Portal wrote to him. It again said it thought he shouldnt transfer out of 
the DB scheme but then in the next paragraph said that if he wanted to do so it could help 
him, while treating him as an insistent client. 
So Portal had already discussed with Mr A what his options were before it gave him its 
suitability report. And, its on the basis of that discussion that Portal says Mr A decided he 
wanted to go ahead with the transfer on an insistent client basis. But at that point Portal 
hadnt yet produced its suitability report. So any information it gave to Mr A, could only have 
been presented in a raw state, that is without the analysis contained within the suitability 
report. Its for this reason that I think the advice process it employed was flawed. That's 
because I don't see how Portal could expect Mr A to make an informed decision about going 
against its recommendation when it hadn't given him all the information he needed in order 
to make that decision. That is, it gave him some limited information relating to the critical 
yield and expected him to make a determination that started him down the road of the 
insistent client process without giving him enough detail to reasonably make that decision.
A much clearer process would have been for Portal to provide its advice and 
recommendations as a whole, taking into account Mr As objectives and attitude to risk. That 
advice should have considered the overall picture  both of transferring out of the DB 
scheme together with the choice of pension and Mr As desire to take TFC immediately. Only 
then should Portal have clearly set out in one document why transferring out of the scheme 
wasnt in Mr As best interests. Instead, its apparent that it first discussed the matter with 
him and while it recorded that its advice was not to transfer, it also told Mr A that it could arrange the transfer for him anyway. So, alongside its recommendation not to transfer, it also 
told Mr A that he could take a lump sum immediately. It was only later that it gave Mr A 
written information about the proposed alternatives in its suitability report, which was after 
Mr A had already said he wanted to transfer out of the DB scheme.
Also, Portals recorded that Mr As first objective was to have access to TFC. It noted that 
Mr A would like it to help out family. But I've seen little evidence it discussed with Mr A in 
detail why he wanted to give up guaranteed pension benefits in order to access TFC at that 
time. That is I've seen no compelling evidence it got to the bottom of what Mr A wanted to 
achieve by taking cash then. And while Portals written that Mr A wanted to help family out, it 
hasnt made any record of who those family members were or why they so desperately 
needed access to cash from Mr As pension funds. And while Portals recorded that Mr A 
wasnt keen on taking on extra borrowing, theres no evidence that it explored with him why 
that might have been a more advantageous strategy for him and his family to follow in order 
to access funds. 
Further, I havent seen any evidence that Portal explored whether Mr A could remain in his 
DB scheme and take funds from it once he reached 60, which was less than three years 
away. Despite requests Portal hasn't provided us with any of the information that the DB 
scheme gave to it about Mr As pension entitlement. So I can't make any assumptions about 
what benefits Mr A may have been able to take from the DB scheme at age 60. But its 
certainly possible that Mr A could have taken TFC and an income from the scheme at that 
time. But theres no evidence that Portal explored this with him to see if this was in his best 
interests.
Portal said the critical yield was too high to be realistically achieved. So it was extremely 
unlikely that an alternative arrangement would match the DB scheme benefits in monetary 
terms. And that made it all the more important that the other reasons for transferring were 
sufficiently compelling. But Portal didnt apparently explore with Mr A why those objectives, 
such as taking TFC straightaway, was worth giving up his guaranteed benefits from his DB 
scheme for. I dont see how Portal could actually give Mr A suitable advice in respect of his 
objectives without knowing the basic facts about what he wanted the cash for. And Ive seen 
no evidence that Portal effectively advised Mr A about the long-term nature of pension 
planning. That is the need for a pot of funds to provide an income for many years ahead. 
In fact I've seen no evidence that Portal sought to find out what Mr As income needs in 
retirement would be or how he intended to achieve those. And without finding out what his 
needs in retirement were Portal wasnt in a position to reasonably challenge Mr As 
understanding of why he thought it was reasonable to go against its recommendation. So, in 
order to advise Mr A, clearly, fairly and without misleading him Portal needed to do an 
analysis of what Mr As likely income in retirement actually would be and then compare that 
with his needs. But Ive seen no evidence that Portal did the appropriate analysis and 
advised Mr A accordingly. I think that was something it needed to do in order to ensure it 
was providing suitable advice. Instead it recommended that Mr A should not transfer out of 
his DB scheme, then later in the same report said that it would recommend he transfer to a 
specific SIPP.
Portal did give Mr A advice not to transfer out of his DB scheme and did bring some of the 
risks of doing so to his attention. But I don't think it can fairly rely on its recommendation to 
Mr A not to transfer. Thats because Mr A apparently made his initial decision to go against 
its advice before Portal had given him its suitability report. It then followed up its 
recommendation not to transfer with information about how he could do that anyway, 
together with a recommendation to transfer into the SIPP. I think that sent mixed messages 
about what Portals genuine recommendation was.Portals role was to discern what Mr As wants and needs were and why Mr A wanted to 
transfer his pension. Its role wasnt simply to do what Mr A wanted without appropriate 
analysis and challenge of his motives for doing so with the implications of taking those 
actions with him. But I've seen no evidence of such a challenge even though that was in 
Mr As best interests. Indeed I've seen no evidence that Portal explored with Mr A exactly 
what he wished to do with his TFC and why. Instead, its suitability report says that Mr As 
objective was to take the lump sum immediately without exploring what Mr As wants and 
needs were. And I dont think Portal met its obligations to challenge his objectives in light of 
what he would be giving up. But theres simply no evidence it explored with Mr A what he 
intended to achieve by transferring his pension and if he could achieve that through another 
means without giving up the benefits from his DB scheme.
It follows that I dont think Portal did enough to fully advise Mr A of his options before it 
showed him down the insistent client road. And I think Mr A could have misunderstood or 
believed that overall, Portal was recommending that he might benefit from going ahead with 
the transfer. So I dont think it treated him fairly. And, if it had done so and provided the level 
of advice I think it should have, I think its unlikely that Mr A would have transferred out of his 
DB scheme.
Portal might well argue that Mr A would have transferred out of the scheme regardless of 
what it told him. But Im not persuaded that Mr A wouldve insisted on transferring out of the 
DB scheme, against Portals advice if it had brought all of his options to his attention. I say 
this because Mr A had no real investment experience. But he was taking a significant risk of 
losing the guarantees from his DB scheme by transferring out of it. So I believe that if Portal 
had challenged Mr A about his need to take TFC immediately, its likely Mr A would have 
been in a different position. So, if Portal had provided him with clearer advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, challenging his motives for doing so and explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice and remained in the DB 
scheme.
Suitability of investments
Portal recommended that Mr A invest in UCIS within a SIPP. As Im upholding the complaint 
on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr A, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because if 
Portals advice had been clearer from the outset I dont think Mr A would have decided to act 
as an insistent client. That means he would have remained within the DB scheme and so the 
investments in the UCIS wouldnt have arisen.
In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mr A for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr A, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for Portals unsuitable advice. I consider Mr A would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, I understand that Mr A did access some income from his SIPP before the funds 
became depleted. But I also understand he retired at 65, so this should be the basis for the 
calculations.This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr As acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr As 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr As SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr As pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr A within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr A.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My aim is to return Mr A to the position he would have been in but for Portals actions. It 
seems likely that some or all of Mr As investments in the SIPP are illiquid, meaning they 
cant be readily sold on the open market. If this is the case it can be complicated to establish 
their value.
To calculate the compensation in this event, Portal should agree an amount with the SIPP 
provider as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and 
take ownership of the investments.
If Portal is unable to buy the investments, they should give it a nil value for the purposes of 
calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should include 
anything Portal has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied to the 
SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portal may ask Mr A to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment in future. That undertaking 
should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portal will need to 
meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal asks Mr A to provide an undertaking, 
payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking.In order for the SIPP to be closed (should Mr A wish to move his investment portfolio) and 
further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investments need to be removed from the SIPP. Ive 
set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the investment, or this is 
something that Mr A can discuss with his SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long 
that will take. Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. 
To provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portal pay Mr A an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This 
should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that Portal 
pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr A the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr A any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr A any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr A the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr A.
If Mr A accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr A can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman