DRN-2739313
The complaint
Ms A complains about repairs to a car acquired under a lease agreement with Ald 
Automotive Limited (AA).
What happened
In or around January 2019 Ms A was supplied with a new car under a lease agreement with 
AA. Following delivery of the car, Ms A noticed some issues with the paintwork. She 
contacted the broker, whom advised her to obtain an estimate for repairs and make a claim 
for damage during transit.
Ms A obtained an estimate and sent this to the broker. A claim was submitted, and the 
manufacturer said it would complete a repair and provided Ms A with a temporary car whilst 
this took place. Repairs were completed in March 2019 but then the manufacturer noticed 
some marks on the windows and said it would also replace these. The car was returned to 
Ms A in April 2019.
In July 2019 Ms A complained to AA. She said the paintwork hadnt been repaired properly.
AA followed up the complaint with the manufacturer. The response from the manufacturer 
was that Ms A wasnt eligible for warranty repair work because she had attempted her own 
repair work after the car had been damaged. AA advised Ms A in November 2019 that it 
wouldnt be able to issue a final response in time. As a gesture of goodwill, it offered Ms A a 
free service on the car.
Ms A brought her complaint to this service. She wants the paintwork repaired.
Our investigator said she thought Ms A had received poor service from the dealership, but 
she felt that the goodwill gesture of a free service was fair. The investigator said there wasnt 
enough evidence to determine whether there was damage when the car was returned to Ms 
a and who was responsible for it. The investigator recommended that AA arrange for the car 
to be independently inspected to assess whether the damage to the paintwork was caused 
prior to delivery or subsequently by Ms A. The investigator said that if it could be shown that 
Ms A wasnt at fault for the damage, AA should arrange for it to be repaired at no cost to Ms 
A.
Ms A responded and said shed never had the car valeted or arranged for any repairs to the 
paintwork herself. She said if the repair had been carried out properly in the first place she 
wouldnt have had to complain. She said the paintwork hadnt been repaired but had instead 
only had a layer of polish put over it which wore off after several weeks.
AA responded and said it would arrange an inspection of the car.
The car was inspected, and the engineer concluded that there were some light scratches in 
the paintwork which could be related to wear and tear and which would polish out.  He said 
there was evidence of recent wax polishing of the car. He didnt reach any conclusion as to 
who was responsible for the damage to the paintwork. 
Our investigator issues a further view. She said that because the engineer wasnt able to say 
who was at fault for the damage, she wasnt able to safely conclude that the damage was 
due to failed repairs. In the meantime, AA made an offer not to charge Ms A for any 
scratches when the car was returned at the end of contract. The investigator said this was a 
fair resolution.
Ms A didnt agree. She said the manufacturer had accepted responsibility for the scratches 
in the beginning and hadnt carried out the repairs properly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a dispute between Ms A and the manufacturer as to how the damage to the 
paintwork was caused and as to what repairs should be carried out to the car. Ms A says 
that prior to the car being delivered to her in January 2019, the delivery driver took the car 
for a valet, which was when the damage to the paintwork occurred. Ms A says she sent the 
car to the manufacturer for repairs on the understanding that the car would be resprayed in 
accordance with the estimate she had obtained.
AA says it was told by the manufacturer that Ms A reported the initial delivery damage but 
then arranged for someone to try and machine polish out the scratches which made the 
condition of the paintwork worse.
Information from the manufacturer shows that it rejected the estimate provided by Ms A for a 
respray because it felt that this was an over estimate and that a body polish would resolve 
the issues.
I understand that Ms A denies having the car valeted or machine polished. Im not in a 
position to say exactly what has happened her because there isnt enough evidence. On the 
available information, it seems to have been accepted by the manufacturer that there was 
some delivery damage to the paintwork and its clear that the manufacturer was prepared to 
put this damage right. Its unclear whether further paintwork damage occurred after delivery 
but before the car was sent to the manufacturer for repair. What is clear is that there has 
been a breakdown in communication between Ms A and the manufacturer because Ms A 
was expecting a full respray to be carried out, but the manufacturer decided that a body 
polish was sufficient.
I think the best way to approach this complaint is to consider whether the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply and (if it wasnt of satisfactory quality due to 
paintwork damage) decide whether the repairs were successful. Ive looked at the inspection 
report because this is the best evidence of the condition of the car after it was returned to Ms 
A following the repairs.
The inspection report found very light scratches which he said were due to wear and tear 
and which would polish out. He was unable to make out any swirls in the paint. He said there 
was evidence that the car had been recently polished or waxed.
Having looked at the report, Im unable to say that there is damage to the paintwork which 
would persuade me to say that the repairs havent been successful. The inspector describes 
the scratches as light and due to general wear and tear. There is a possibility that these 
scratches have occurred since the car was returned to Ms A, as shes been using the car.Based on everything Ive seen, Im unable to say that the body polish carried out by the 
manufacturer wasnt a suitable or successful repair. So, I dont think there are grounds to 
ask AA to cover the cost of further repairs, or to allow a rejection.
AA has offered not to charge Ms A for any scratches on the car when she returns it at the 
end of her contract. Scratches would normally be chargeable damage, depending on size. I 
think this is a fair and reasonable offer to resolve the complaint. I dont think its necessary to 
ask AA to do anything further.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman