DRN-1861645
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc has put a default on his credit file, but he says he 
didn't know that he owed Santander any money. He wants Santander to take the default off.
What happened
Mr G used the account switching service to move from Santander to another bank. He didnt 
realise that a payment had come out of his old Santander account. Hed moved not long 
after he used the switching service, so he didnt get any letters or calls from Santander. 
Charges were applied, and the total went up. 
Mr G said he paid this debt off as soon as he realised, but he didnt realise until after a 
default was placed on his account in July 2019. 
Mr G said this was having a big impact on him, as he was hoping to apply for a mortgage. 
Then later he said hed been turned down for a mortgage because of the default. 
Santander said Mr G used his debit card after it had received a request from his new bank to 
start the account switching process. And there were fees due to be applied to the account 
too. 
Santander said the website of the bank Mr G switched to explains that an account wont be 
closed if theres an amount owing. Santander also said Mr G was still logging in to online 
banking, so he wouldve known this. It showed us the logs of online account access.
Santander didnt think it had done anything wrong. It had tried to contact Mr G repeatedly 
about the debt. It thought it was Mr Gs responsibility to keep his contact details up to date. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Santander had tried to 
get in touch with Mr G. When it couldnt do so, our investigator said that Santander had 
correctly applied the default.
Mr G said he didnt think he would need to give Santander his new contact details because 
he no longer banked with it. He moved house in January 2019. If hed been told before then 
that the account hadnt been closed because of an outstanding balance, he couldve acted 
on this. He still wanted this default removed. Because Mr G didnt agree with our 
investigator, the case was passed to me to resolve.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Its the bank someone switches to that explains the terms of the switch. And the bank 
Mr G switched to said that Mr Gs account wouldnt be closed if it was overdrawn. Mr G says he didnt know that, he thought the Santander account had just been 
closed. A couple of months later he moved. He didnt think he needed to tell 
Santander about this, because he didnt have an account with it any more. 
Mr G now knows that his account wasnt closed. It was overdrawn when the switch 
was actioned. His last statement says that he will be charged £50 in fees. There 
wasnt enough money in the account to cover those fees. 
I dont think that Santander did anything wrong by not closing Mr Gs account when 
the switch was actioned. 
Santander has shown us it did try to get in touch with Mr G several times before it 
defaulted the account. So I dont think that Santander did anything wrong when it then 
recorded a default on Mr Gs credit file. 
The attempts Santander has shown us to contact Mr G were dated after when he says 
he moved. But its also shown us that Mr Gs online account was accessed in this 
time. The account overview was still being accessed in late January 2019. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr G was aware that his account 
hadnt been closed. 
Considering this case as a whole, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
require Santander to remove the default from his credit file now. I know Mr G will be 
disappointed, but my provisional view is that this complaint shouldnt be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman