DRN-1398028
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that Unum Ltd declined a claim he made on his employers group income 
protection policy.
What happened
Mr T was covered under his employers group income protection policy provided by Unum.
In July 2018, Mr T was absent from work. After a prolonged period of absence, Mr T made a 
claim to Unum in January 2019.
Unum declined Mr Ts claim. It said Mr Ts policy didnt cover him for absences caused by 
workplace issues. And it said the medical evidence indicated Mr Ts absence was caused by 
stress he was experiencing both at work and in his personal life. It said he didnt meet the 
policy definition of incapacity, and so said it wouldnt be paying his claim.
Mr T appealed Unums decision. He said his absence was first caused by issues in his 
workplace, but that other factors outside of work had also had an impact on him not being 
able to return to work. He said the main thing stopping him returning to work was pain he 
was experiencing in his knee. He said he had evidence to support he wasnt fit to return to 
work.
Unum maintained its stance. It said the medical evidence didnt show Mr T met the policy 
definition of incapacity. It said it still thought Mr Ts absence was caused by stress and 
personal issues. And as such said Mr Ts claim wasnt covered by the policy.
Unhappy, Mr T brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into his complaint and 
didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought Unums decision to decline his claim was in line 
with the policy and so didnt recommend it do anything more.
Mr T didnt agree. He provided further evidence to show hed since lost his job as he wasnt 
able to return to work but our investigator didnt think this changed her mind. Mr T asked for 
an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. I understand this wont be the answer 
he was hoping for, so Ill explain my reasoning below.
Mr Ts employers group income protection policy offers Mr T cover if hes incapacitated 
while actively at work. The policy defines both incapacity and actively at work.
The policy defines incapacity as Mr Ts inability to carry out the material and substantial 
duties of his role due to his illness or injury. And it defines actively at work as Mr T working 
the number of hours required by his contract and having not received any medical advice to 
refrain from work.
Unum say Mr T was off work due to stress caused by workplace and personal issues. And 
the medical evidence Ive seen does support this was the reason he was first absent from 
work.
The medical evidence points to issues Mr T is having with his workload and the recent 
medical diagnosis of a family member. This medical evidence shows Mr T is actively in 
contact with his employer, but theres no indication Mr T is prescribed medication or that he 
undertook any other form of treatment.
Later in Mr Ts absence, he reports an issue with his knee. And theres plenty of medical 
evidence to support him having issues with it. Unum has said while there is evidence Mr T is 
having issues with his knee, theres no assessment of what duties he can perform. And so it 
doesnt think Mr T has shown hes met the policy definition of incapacity.
Looking at the evidence, Im satisfied Mr T didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity 
when he was first off work. The medical evidence doesnt indicate he was absent due to an 
illness or injury.
But I do think Mr T did enough to show he wasnt able to return to work due to being 
incapacitated. The medical evidence doesnt show what duties he can and cant perform, but 
it does show hes unable to work, and the occupational health reports from his employer say 
the same. Ultimately Mr T unfortunately lost his job as his employer couldnt hold the position 
open for him while he returned to health as he was close to his retirement.
Importantly though, for Mr Ts claim to be successful, he needed to be actively at work on 
the last working day prior to his incapacity. So even if he wasnt able to return to work due to 
his knee, and this met the definition of incapacity  as Im satisfied it did  he wasnt actively 
at work at the time. As mentioned above, he was absent from work due to stress caused by 
workplace and personal issues. And his policy doesnt provide cover for this.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Unum declined Mr Ts claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of his employers group income protection policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman