DRN-2669333
The complaint
Miss L complains about the redress shes been offered by Liverpool Victoria Financial 
Services Limited T/A Liverpool Victoria Financial Advice Services (LV) as a result of its 
unsuitable advice to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) 
plan in 1992. She wants the redress to be based on added years  instead of the in-house 
AVC alternative.
What happened
Miss L was a member of the NHS Pension scheme. In 1992 she agreed to a 
recommendation from LV to make gross monthly contributions of £25 to a FSAVC. In 
November 1994 Miss L was made redundant from her position, but by June 1995 she had 
found new employment and met with LV to discuss her situation. She agreed to restart her 
FSAVC at a net monthly premium of £100.
In 1999 Miss L agreed to increase her gross monthly contributions by around £40  which I 
understand the adviser said was the maximum allowable at that time. Miss L continued to 
fund her FSAVC until she retired in June 2007 and drew her benefits along with the main 
scheme pension. 
But in August 2019 Miss L, through a representative, complained to LV about the advice 
shed been given previously. The complaint stated that Miss L hadnt been made aware that 
the FSAVC had higher charges and should have been advised to make contributions to the 
in-house options instead. It also said that it wasnt fair for Miss L to have to choose her own 
funds for her pension, given her lack of investment experience.
LV upheld the complaint as it couldnt confirm it had made Miss L aware of the in-house 
options available, in sufficient detail. LV also considered whether Miss L would have 
purchased added years instead, but it didnt think she would have because of her 
circumstances at the time. So, in November 2019 it made an offer of compensation to 
Miss L. The offer of £6,925.21 was reached by comparing the FSAVC plan, on a charges 
only basis, with an in-house AVC.
But Miss L didnt accept the offer as she believed she would have elected to purchase 
added years as a way of making up her NHS service shortfall. LV still maintained that 
Miss L wasnt risk averse and therefore was prepared to accept some risk with her 
investments  so her representative brought the complaint to us, where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said there were a number 
of reasons for concluding that Miss L would have been more likely to make contributions to 
an in-house AVC than added years.
Miss L held some investment back plans at the time of the advice  so she wasnt 
risk averse.
The growth assumptions that Miss L would have been provided with for money 
purchase pension options were far higher in 1992 than today, and would have 
seemed like a more attractive option to Miss L. 
She thought it likely Miss L wouldnt have seen added years as good value for 
money  particularly as she would have paid for additional benefits like spousal 
pensions and death in service, which wouldnt have been important factors to her in 
1992.
The benefits from an in-house AVC scheme, with its lower charges than a FSAVC, 
were unlikely to have appeared risky to Miss L. So it was unlikely she would have 
preferred the more expensive added years option with an increasing premium (in 
line with her salary).
She thought that LVs redress was in line with our approach and that it didnt need to 
reassess things. 
Miss Ls representative didnt agree and made the following points:
It explained, using Miss Ls investment history, how she kept most of her capital in 
deposit-based savings and therefore was risk averse and would therefore have 
been more likely to contribute to added years. 
At the time of the advice in 1992 Miss L wasnt going to achieve full service in the 
scheme at retirement. Her commitment to significantly increasing her FSAVC 
premiums showed that she could have afforded the added years option  which was 
more in line with her cautious attitude to risk (ATR).
It hadnt suggested that Miss L wouldnt have contributed to an AVC but that she 
would have purchased added years as well. 
Although Miss L was single at the time, she would still have preferred the security 
and spousal benefits that came from buying added years. 
It asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
So the complaints been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigators assessment and for broadly the same 
reasons. I know this isnt an outcome that Miss L will have been hoping for, but I dont think 
LV has done anything wrong here  so Ill explain my reasons.
Theres no dispute here that LV didnt give Miss L suitable advice when it recommended a 
FSAVC plan in 1992 and when it advised her to restart the plan in 1995 and increase the 
premiums in 1999. The question is simply whether the redress its offered is appropriate or 
whether, as Miss L believes, a comparison should be made against added years as the 
more likely vehicle Miss L would have purchased to increase her NHS pension scheme 
provision.
Added years was a different alternative to FSAVC and in-house AVCs as it provided a 
guaranteed benefit which, because of future salary increases, would be difficult to define 
until retirement. So I have to consider Miss Ls circumstances in 1992 and whether added 
years would have been a more likely solution for her. 
And in order to do so Ive carefully considered the point of sale documentation that was 
provided by LV and which recorded Miss Ls situation at the time of the advice. 
However, as a starting point is should be remembered that in 1992, when projected 
investment returns were much higher, (quotations using assumed growth rates of 13 and 8% 
were issued to Miss L) added years would have seemed much more expensive compared to FSAVC projected returns and benefits. In this case an initial premium of £18.75 per month 
into an FSAVC was projected to return an additional pension of £1,220 at the higher 
illustration rate.  So I think it was unlikely that in 1992 Miss L would have wanted to spend a 
greater monthly amount to get the same projections from added years as she would have 
got from an FSAVC. 
It was also the case that AVCs offered lower initial charges than a FSAVC, so the AVCs 
Miss L could have taken out would more likely have had an even higher projected benefit 
than the FSAVC she actually took out, due to its lower charges. So, when comparing what 
Miss L would have been more likely to have purchased, I think she would have found the 
added years option more expensive and not in her best interests at the time. Ive also taken 
into account that LV couldnt have recommended added years simply directed Miss L to her 
scheme administrator for more information and an illustration of costs for the number of 
years she might wish to buy back. Without any adviser to help her I think it was likely the 
costs involved in buying back even a small number of years might have seemed prohibitive 
to Miss L.
But there are additional factors that I have to take into account when deciding if added 
years was the most suitable option  which were also discussed within the point of sale 
documentation.
Scope to buy added years
Miss Ls representative said that it didnt disagree with the advice to contribute to in-house 
AVCs as an alternative, but that Miss L could have purchased added years as well. But 
given that by 1999 Miss L was funding her additional retirement provision to its maximum 
level she wouldnt have been able to pay into both schemes by that time. And looking at her 
previous affordability in 1992 and 1995 I think she paid what she could afford at the time to 
increase her pension provision. So, Im not persuaded there was scope for Miss L to fund 
both schemes and, given I think she would have been most likely to have contributed to in-
house AVCs instead, I dont think she would have had the scope to have chosen added 
years as well at the at time.  
age
Miss L was 45 when she first took out the FSAVC, 48 when she restarted it and 53 when she 
increased contributions. It could be argued that Miss L might be less likely to change jobs 
than a younger scheme member and so could find added years more beneficial. But LV 
recorded that Miss L had been made redundant two years after she first started the FSAVC, 
so based on what it knew about her when she restarted the plan LV might have discounted 
that possibility. I think, on balance, that Miss Ls age profile, taken in the context of her job, 
wouldnt have suggested that added years were more beneficial to her, particularly when 
considering other more important factors.
Marital/family status
Miss L was recorded as being single with no dependents in each of the fact finds that were 
completed with her. 
Although she has suggested that she would have preferred the option of providing for future 
dependents, regardless of her actual situation, I think she wouldnt have perceived as much 
benefit in the spousal pension and dependents pension (plus death in service) which were 
included in added years arrangements and would have been included in the cost of buying 
back years of service with those benefits included. The FSAVC and in-house options both 
allowed for Miss L to draw her benefits on a more favourable (to her) single life basis, which 
is what Miss L ultimately did.  Flexibility and affordability
An application for added years would have committed Miss L to an increasing cost, linked 
to salary, over a fixed term. However, thats not to say that Miss L couldnt have afforded to 
do that  as shown by her significant increase in payments in 1995 particularly. But Miss L 
had missed quite a lot of service in her pension scheme so I think the cost for her, over that 
period of time would have been quite significant. I dont think this would have been a 
principle reason for suggesting that added years was more appropriate for Miss L.
Attitude to risk
Both parties have used Miss Ls attitude to risk (ATR) as a main reason to support their 
claims. Miss Ls representative said Miss L was risk averse and wanted a guaranteed way to 
increase her retirement provision  as she didnt have much investment experience and 
wouldnt have been able to choose the appropriate funds to invest in. It said the endowments 
she owned were all invested in cautious with-profit funds. Whereas LV said Miss L had 
some investments and by the time she increased her premiums in 1999 had also invested in 
personal equity plans  so she wasnt risk averse.  
Ive looked carefully at the information that was recorded during the three occasions Miss L 
met with LV. And while I can see that she wasnt an experienced investor who was taking 
much investment risk within her plans, equally I cant agree that she was risk averse. Miss L 
did hold an interest only mortgage backed by endowments as well as several other savings 
plans. And when she agreed to take out the FSAVC the recommendation was to invest in a 
managed fund  which is generally accepted to be of a medium risk. I appreciate this might 
not have been suitable advice, but I dont think that because of the risk profile of the plan. 
And Miss L didnt dispute the risk of the funds she was invested in when she restarted the 
plan in 1995 and increased contributions four years later.
And I have taken into account that by 1999 Miss L had invested in a personal equity plan. 
But Miss L was also single, with no dependents, so I think it was acceptable for her to 
tolerate some risk to her capital and retirement provision  for those very reasons. As I said I 
dont think Miss L can be classified as a high risk investor but I think she was able to and did 
accept some degree of risk with her money, even if it was through with-profit or managed 
funds  which isnt the same as being risk averse. So I find it difficult to support a claim that 
Miss L would have purchased added years because she was risk averse and only wanted a 
course of action which would have provided guaranteed returns. 
Summary  
I have carefully considered Miss Ls submissions in support of her claim that she would have 
purchased added years. But I havent been presented with enough persuasive evidence for 
me to conclude that was Miss Ls most like course of action, and that LV should adjust its 
calculation to reflect a comparison of the FSAVC with the in-house added years option 
instead of the in-house AVC option. Ive taken that decision based on the information that 
was known in 1992 initially, but also in 1995 and 1999. 
At that time Miss L was single with no immediate suggestion of her status changing and she 
held some plans which suggested she was prepared to take some risk with her capital and 
future objectives. 
But the most important factor in my decision is that an illustration of an in-house AVC at the 
time of the sale would have most likely shown Miss L that the best solution for her, in terms 
of value for money and costs, would have been a money purchase option through FSAVCs 
or the in-house option. That investment returns havent achieved the assumptions from the time couldnt have been foreseen and I think Miss L would have been persuaded at the time 
that her most suitable alternative would have been in-house AVCs. 
So I dont think Miss L would have chosen to purchase added years and I think LV has 
calculated the redress in line with the approach I would have recommended. Therefore, Im 
not going to ask LV to do anything further to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman