DRN-4043372
Complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Santander UK Plc wouldnt reimburse them after they fell 
victim to a scam. Although the payments came from a joint account, they were made by 
Mrs M so Ive generally referred to her in the text of this decision.
Background
The facts of this case are well known to both parties, so I dont intend to set them out in full 
here.
In March 2021, Mrs M fell victim to an investment scam. She was researching potential 
investment opportunities and found a company offering the chance to invest in 
cryptocurrency. Unfortunately, the person she spoke to wasnt from a legitimate investment 
company at all, but a scammer. She used her Santander account to transfer just under 
£22,000 into an account with a third-party business. The scammers then persuaded her to 
transfer those funds on into a cryptocurrency e-wallet that was under their control.
The first of the payments was made on 9 March 2021. It was stopped by Santander pending 
a conversation with Mrs M. The purpose of that call was to ensure that Mrs M wasnt at risk 
of financial harm due to fraud. However, Mrs M found the attitude of the call handler to be 
abrasive and difficult. The call ended with Santander agreeing to process the payment on 
Mrs Ms behalf.
Santander also intervened in connection with a second payment that Mrs M attempted on 7 
April. In that call, Mrs M wasnt willing to discuss the details of the payment she was making 
with the employee of the bank. As with the earlier call, it resulted in the payment being 
processed.
When Mrs M realised shed fallen victim to a scam, she notified Santander. It looked into 
things but declined to reimburse her. It said that it didnt think shed taken sufficient care to 
ensure that the person she was paying was legitimate. 
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with this response and so they referred their complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it for, broadly speaking, the 
same reasons as Santander.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the Investigators view and so the complaint was passed to me 
to consider and come to a final decision. I contacted both parties by email and explained that 
I was minded to partially uphold the complaint. No mutual agreement was reached between 
the parties and so Ive proceeded to determine the complaint.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is common ground that Mrs M authorised the payments. This was therefore an authorised 
payment even though she didnt intend for hey money to go to the fraudsters. Under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Mr and 
Mrs M are presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
Santander is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code. That Code says that, in certain circumstances, the bank should 
reimburse a customer who has fallen victim to a scam.
However, the Code only applies to scams where the customer transfers funds to another 
person. In Mr and Mrs Ms case, the payments that left their Santander account went into a 
different account in their name. Unfortunately, that means that these rules arent applicable 
here.
However, Santander did have a range of other duties and obligations here. Taking into 
account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Santander should fairly 
and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Its accepted by both parties that Santander needed to make some enquiries about the first 
payment Mrs M made on 9 March 2021. It was out of character and had several commonly 
occurring scam features. In this instance, Santander did stop the payment and speak to her 
before allowing it to be processed. She was unhappy with the way that call had been 
handled and that resulted in a complaint. Unfortunately, its not been possible to obtain a 
copy of the call, so the only evidence as to its contents are Mrs M's recollections and the 
brief system notes recorded by the employee of Santander who spoke to her. 
These said:
enhanced security completed. Scam chat done. Cop- Could not be checked.
Mrs M said that she felt like the call handler was working with a checklist. She also said:
Santander always read out if they suspect a scam, but I found her attitude very 
unhelpful. She [the Santander employee] did not take time to enquire further than the 
minimum requirement or to offer advice."
I cant know for sure if its fair for Mrs M to characterise the banks employee in this way. 
However, her recollections are the best evidence I have as to what was said during the call. 
They suggest that she was read some pre-prepared information and that she was only 
asked surface-level questions. I think the Santander employee shouldve asked some open questions about how Mrs M was introduced to this investment opportunity. If that had 
happened, and shed shared some basic details about what shed been told, I think 
Santander couldve recognised quite straightforwardly that this was an investment scam.
I did also listen to the recording of the call on 7 April and considered whether the way Mrs M 
interacted with the Santander employee on that occasion might be an indicator as to how 
shed have responded in the first call. However, I dont think it would be fair to assume that 
shed have had the same response in the first call. Its definitely true that she was resistant 
to the enquiries of the Santander employee telling them that its my own business and I 
dont need to divulge what Im doing, I object to that on principle. She was clearly 
aggravated by the fact that Santander had previously blocked a payment towards what she 
still believed was an enticing investment opportunity. She was also unhappy with the way 
that conversation had gone.
Its also worth bearing in mind that, by the time she made that final payment, shed 
completely bought into the scam and wanted to ensure that she didnt lose what she 
believed were very significant returns. I think its just as likely that the evident frustration in 
the 7 April call was an agglomeration of her frustration across the two calls. Without a 
recording of the first call, its impossible for me to know for sure. But Im satisfied that the 
weight of the evidence supports the claim that Santander didnt handle that first call 
appropriately and so missed an opportunity to prevent Mrs M from falling victim to the scam.
Ive also considered whether Mrs M can be fairly considered partially responsible for her 
losses here. Ive considered what the law has to say about contributory negligence, but also 
borne in mind that I must decide this case based on what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that she should be considered partially responsible. The 
returns that she was promised by the scammer were exceptional. The paperwork suggests 
that she was told that the return on her investment was guaranteed. Mrs M has since told me 
that she understood this to mean simply that her capital wasnt at risk because the 
investments made on her behalf were insured. 
It's also noticeable that several of the documents that were provided to her when making 
these investments were written in poor English, which didnt suggest that she was dealing 
with a professional organisation. Mrs M ought to have recognised that the offering was too 
good to be true and acted cautiously. Overall, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for 
Santander to consider her partially responsible for her losses and to make a deduction of 
50% from the compensation it pays. 
Mrs M also argued that Santander shouldve considered that they were vulnerable 
customers. Santander would be expected to have handled things slightly differently if Mr and 
Mrs M were vulnerable  that is, if due to their personal circumstances they were especially 
susceptible to harm. However, Im not persuaded that Santander knew, or ought to have 
known, about those potential vulnerabilities. Without that knowledge, its difficult to say that it 
shouldve handled things differently.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
If Mr and Mrs M accept my decision, Santander UK Plc should refund 50% of the money 
they lost to scam. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman