DRN-3754209
The complaint
Mr T complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd (IFM) in November 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits 
in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
What happened
Mr T had built up safeguarded benefits in the BSPS while employed by Tata Steel UK Ltd 
(Tata Steel). The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members.
In March 2016, Tata Steel announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes 
insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. By that 
point, Mr T had built up 19 years pensionable service in the BSPS. His annual scheme 
pension as at the date of leaving the scheme in May 2016 was £14,622.46. This would be 
revalued over the term to retirement by a prescribed amount.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
had been agreed. This was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017  under 
the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension scheme, 
the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. 
Members were told that if the re-structure was approved, they would have three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP
In September 2017, terms of the re-structure were confirmed enabling trustees to start to talk 
to the members in detail. This led to the Time to Choose communication pack being issued 
to members, including Mr T, in October 2017. The pack provided more detail about the three 
options available and was intended to help members choose an option.
Mr T was concerned about what the announced changes meant for the security of his 
safeguarded benefits and wanted advice on his options. He contacted another business 
(Firm A) to get advice. Since Firm A didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to 
advise on pension transfers, it introduced Mr T to IFM. One of IFMs advisers recorded the 
following information about Mr T:
He was aged 47, unmarried and in good health. His partner was aged 44 and in good 
health. He had one financially dependent child aged 13;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£40,000. His partner was employed full-time by a bank and paid gross annual income 
of about £28,000;
Their assets comprised the family home valued at about £350,000 which was 
encumbered with a mortgage. They had cash savings of about £6,000. They didnt 
have any other savings or investments; 
Their liabilities comprised a repayment mortgage of about £37,000 on the family 
home. They didnt have any other debts or liabilities;
After paying for bills and essentials, they had surplus disposable income of about 
£2,000, of which about £500 was directed into their cash savings;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he had an old PPP 
valued at about £8,000 and had been a member of Tata Steels defined contribution 
(DC) pension scheme since June 2016. The total annual contribution paid into his 
DC plan was 12% of his gross annual salary (the value of his DC plan wasnt 
recorded). In addition, he was on course to receive the full state pension at age 67;
His partner had built up pension rights in her own name in one DB pension scheme 
and two group PPPs during her career;
He was an inexperienced investor with limited knowledge and experience of 
investments. On a scale of 1 to 6 where 1 (Risk Averse) was lowest risk and 6 
(Aggressive) was highest risk, his risk profile was determined to be 3 or 
Conservative risk; and
His primary objective regarding his safeguarded benefits was to retire earlier than the 
BSPS normal retirement age of 65. He wanted to retire somewhere around age 55 if 
his financial situation allowed it.
Following the fact find meeting, IFMs adviser issued his suitability report in November 2017. 
This explained to Mr T that he had three options regarding his safeguarded benefits, as set 
out in the Time to Choose communication pack. IFMs adviser recommended that Mr T 
accept the transfer value of £376,043.35 offered by the BSPS and transfer to a PPP 
provided by Royal London for the following reasons:
You require the flexibility to control and tailor the frequency and amount of income 
you receive from your pension fund in retirement to suit your circumstances, needs 
and tax position, as opposed to the pre-set (albeit guaranteed) income that your 
existing defined benefits pension would provide.
You want to ensure you can retire when you want and do not want to take the risk of 
having restrictions in place when the scheme enters the PPF or it becomes the 'new' 
British Steel Pension Scheme.
You are prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility over when and 
how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund.
The costs associated with the recommendation were as follows:
Initial advice charge 
1.13% (or £5,000)  initial adviser charge for recommendation and implementationOngoing annual charges
0.40% investment annual management charge deducted from the PPP fund value 
(the product charge was noted as nil)
The basis of the recommendation was that following the pension transfer, Firm A, 
who introduced Mr T to IFM, would provide ongoing advice regarding the 
management and investment of the recommended PPP. In connection with this, 
IFMs adviser stated in the suitability report, It is important that your funds and 
financial planning arrangements are reviewed at regular intervals to ensure that they 
remain suitable. I understand this service will be provided by [Firm A]. The cost of 
this provision can be paid directly by you or can be taken from your pension fund on 
an ongoing basis. This is something you and [Firm A] will need to discuss and agree 
on. The cost of that ongoing advice wasnt stated in the suitability report.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) showed that Mr Ts estimated revalued annual scheme 
pension at age 65 was £23,013.67 on the basis he took a full scheme pension only. It 
calculated the critical yield to match that benefit as 6.7%. The calculation assumed 0% 
ongoing advice costs. The critical yield at age 55  to align with the age at which Mr T 
wanted to retire  wasnt calculated.
Mr T accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed. 
IFM recommended that the PPP fund value be invested in Royal Londons Governed 
Portfolio 2 fund to align with Mr Ts Conservative risk profile.
This complaint
During 2022, Mr T complained to IFM about the suitability of its pension transfer advice. He 
thought that the advice had caused him to suffer a financial loss. 
IFM didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it stated that Mr T was concerned about the 
issues surrounding Tata Steel and the security of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. It 
considered that the continuing uncertainty at the time was sufficient reason for Mr T to 
transfer away so that he could obtain control of his safeguarded benefits and benefit from 
the flexibility to withdraw variable amounts of money from age 55 and leave a lump sum to 
his beneficiaries on death. It was satisfied that it had adhered to and considered relevant 
FCA rules and guidance including providing Mr T with all the necessary information and risk 
warnings in good time to be able to make an informed decision. It didnt believe the 
alternative options of the PPF or BSPS2 couldve met Mr Ts early retirement objective. In its 
view, the pension transfer to the PPP was in his best interests and so was therefore suitable. 
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because, in her view, IFM failed to demonstrate at the time that transferring to the PPP was 
clearly in Mr Ts best interests compared to the alternative options. She thought suitable 
advice wouldve been to transfer to the BSPS2. To put things right, our investigator 
recommended that IFM carry out a redress calculation in line with the FCAs guidelines on 
the basis that Mr T transferred to the BSPS2, took benefits at age 65 and would be a 20% 
income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, she recommended that IFM pay Mr T £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
Mr T accepted our investigators assessment. IFM didnt provide a response to our 
investigator. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me to 
review and decide. This is the last stage of our process.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The FCAs applicable rules and guidance
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of IFMs actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
COBS 4.2.1R: A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is 
fair, clear and not misleading
 
The provision in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer were as follows:
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must: 
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other  pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail 
client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme 
with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
And COBS 19.1.3 G stated:
In particular, the comparison should:(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
scheme;
(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns 
of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
(5) where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to 
the ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from 
crystallisation at normal retirement age under that scheme.
Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests
COBS 19.1.7G:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
COBS 19.1.7B:
In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the 
defined benefits pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as 
sufficient in itself.
COBS 19.1.8G:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of IFMs advice to Mr T, its necessary for me to have due regard 
to the FCAs rules and guidance stated above.
Mr Ts situation
The situation for Mr T wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. Three options were available, as set out in the suitability report:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP (the transfer value available 
was £376,043.35)
The BSPS was one of the largest DB pension schemes in the UK with approximately 
125,000 members. Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for BSPS 
members, many of whom had been largely passive pension savers and found themselves 
having to make major and irreversible choices about their financial futures. I think its fair to 
say that many members were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the 
future of the BSPS. As a result, I think it was essential for any regulated adviser making a 
recommendation to a BSPS member to have a detailed understanding of each of the options 
available and of their customers personal circumstances.
Options 1 and 2 provided guaranteed lifetime income but there were differences between 
them for deferred members like Mr T. The PPF was designed to provide members with at 
least 90% of their starting pension value but the BSPS2 was designed to provide members 
with 100%. The PPF was likely the better option for unmarried members who expected to 
retire early or take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction 
in the starting entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married members 
who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 65. The 
BSPS2 provided the potential for discretionary increases to the scheme pension, a higher 
level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed 
suitable. The benefits available under option 3 would be dependent on the performance of 
underlying investments and annuity rates available at retirement  in other words, there were 
no guarantees regarding the level of benefits paid.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that IFM shouldve considered that the BSPS2 
was likely to be better option for Mr T based on his personal circumstances and the 
uncertainty about when he would be able to retire. And so its my view that IFM shouldve 
only recommended a transfer to the PPP in favour of the BSPS2 if it could clearly 
demonstrate why it was in Mr Ts best interests, as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Having considered the evidence, I agree with the investigators view that IFMs pension 
transfer advice to Mr T was unsuitable for largely the same reasons. My view can be 
summarised as follows:
The primary purpose of a pension is to meet the income needs of an individual during 
retirement. Mr Ts safeguarded benefits, accounting for 19 years pensionable service, represented his most valuable asset. He had limited other assets that could 
be used to support his retirement income needs. Given the lack of other assets, IFM 
ought to have recognised that Mr T was likely to be heavily reliant on the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to generate a minimum level of core income to support his 
standard of living in retirement until state pension age. Given Mr Ts limited capacity 
for loss, I think it was important not to expose the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
unnecessary risk by treating flexibility, control and maximisation of death benefits as 
a high priority at the expense of the primary income purpose  unless there was a 
clearly suitable reason to do so;
The primary aim of the pension transfer was so that Mr T could retire early, from 
around age 55 if his financial situation allowed it. But he was then aged 47 and so 
couldnt access any benefits until age 55 at the earliest under the PPP. In my view, 
with such a time horizon until pension benefits could be accessed, it made the case 
for a pension transfer at that time  for the sake of achieving possible early 
retirement  more difficult to justify;
Mr T had limited knowledge and experience of investments. He had a Conservative 
risk profile indicating he was at the lower end of the investment risk spectrum. 
Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated 
with his safeguarded benefits being transferred from the scheme to Mr T. Those risks 
wouldve been retained by the BSPS2 had he transferred to that scheme;
Had IFM advised Mr T to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded 
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed 
suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his 
retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 47;
IFM failed to obtain the necessary information relating to Mr Ts financial situation 
including his anticipated income and expenditure during retirement when assessing 
whether it was suitable for him to transfer out of the BSPS to achieve his early 
retirement objective. It may well have been the case that Mr Ts retirement income 
need couldve been met by the BSPS2 but IFM failed to establish this. Ultimately, 
however, theres insufficient evidence to demonstrate why it was in Mr Ts best 
interests to transfer at that time to achieve his early retirement objective or whether 
he could in fact retire early;
IFM stated in the suitability report that at age 65 the BSPS would pay Mr T an annual 
pension of £15,001. But the TVAS showed the estimated revalued annual pension at 
age 65 was £23,013.67. IFM attempted to show in the suitability report the early 
retirement pension payable under the BSPS at age 55. It stated, For illustrative 
purposes only, if you were 55 now and retiring under the current British Steel 
scheme, the annual pension would be c£10,500 per year or c£7,500 with a tax-free 
lump sum of £49,500. But that illustration was potentially misleading for an 
inexperienced investor like Mr T. This is because that figure of £15,001 was the 
revalued pension as at July 2017 when Mr T was aged 47 (rather than at age 55). It 
would need to be revalued to age 55 before the 30% reduction was applied. I think 
the way the information was presented may have misled Mr T to believe that the 
benefits payable by the BSPS at age 55 were lower than was actually the case;
IFM recorded that Mr T preferred flexible income rather than guaranteed lifetime 
income. Im not sure what this was based on. He had received guaranteed income all 
his working life and had a Conservative risk profile. So I think a guaranteed 
retirement income wouldve been valuable for an individual in Mr Ts circumstances;IFM recorded that Mr T was prepared to accept more risk in return for greater 
flexibility over when and how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund. Im not 
persuaded that it was appropriate for an inexperienced and Conservative risk 
investor to relinquish the guarantees attached to his main retirement provision in 
exchange for more risk so that he could access flexible benefits. Theres no real 
evidence that Mr T required the flexibility of irregular lump sums or variable income 
during retirement. Flexibility and control might sound attractive, but I cant see that he 
had any concrete need for it. But if he did require it, then any flexible needs couldve 
been met by his DC pensions and tax-free cash available under the BSPS2; 
In addition, Mr T had substantial surplus disposable income of about £2,000 available 
every month. Theres inadequate evidence that IFM considered saving some of these 
additional monies in either a pension, investment or savings account to provide 
flexible income or lump sums rather than transferring and losing benefit guarantees;
IFM portrayed the PPP option as allowing for early retirement earlier than age 65 
without penalty. I think this was misleading. The reality was of course that the PPP 
wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier than age 65 and any resulting 
income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained to 
Mr T so that he could understand accessing any of the available options early would 
likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking 
benefits at age 65. So I think he made the decision to transfer from an uninformed 
position in this regard;
IFM recorded that Mr T was concerned about the security of his safeguarded benefits 
and wanted choice and control over his pension. But he appears to have been a 
largely passive pension saver up until that point. Theres no evidence he had 
experience of controlling, managing or investing large sums of money. So its unclear 
to me why he suddenly had a desire to do so. In my view, Mr T had limited 
knowledge and experience to enable him to understand the risks involved in 
transferring his safeguarded benefits; 
It was noted that Mr T was concerned about a transfer to the PPF at a later date. As 
an inexperienced investor who had enjoyed guaranteed employed income during his 
career, its unclear to me on what basis an individual in Mr Ts circumstances would 
decide that he didnt value the guarantee provided by the PPF. While I understand 
that he may have been concerned about the security of his safeguarded benefits, I 
dont consider a transfer to the PPF was an outcome to avoid. Under the PPF, Mr T 
wouldve received a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension. This contrasted with 
the recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits 
payable. If Mr T was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to 
the PPF which would result in him losing 10% of the scheme pension, then I question 
why, as an inexperienced and Conservative risk investor, he would accept the risk 
of transferring to a PPP which exposed his benefits to unlimited downside risks 
where the loss could be significantly greater than 10%; 
A change in the format of death benefits was recorded as another reason for the 
transfer to the PPP. While I understand that death benefits are important to 
consumers, the priority here, in my opinion, was to advise Mr T about what was best 
for his own retirement provision. Withdrawing money from the PPP to meet income 
and lump sum needs would likely mean that the size of the fund remaining in later 
years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than expected. I cant see 
that this was explained to Mr T. Through his employment he had death in service life 
cover based on a multiple of six times salary. In addition, the value of his DC pension plans would be payable as a tax-free lump sum. So its clear his partner 
would receive a large (relative to their wider financial situation) lump sum death 
benefit from other sources in the event of his death. And if this was deemed 
insufficient, the substantial surplus disposable income they had available couldve 
been used to obtain life cover to provide a lump sum on death. Finally, his partner 
had built up pension rights in her own name  and so she had other sources of 
retirement income in addition to any benefits payable by the BSPS2 (had Mr T been 
advised to select that option);
For the reasons stated above, I dont think there was any need to transfer to a PPP 
at that time. The critical yield figure attached to the transaction further undermined 
the case for a pension transfer. IFM calculated the critical yield to match the benefits 
under the BSPS at age 65 as 6.7%. This compared with a discount rate of 4.4% at 
age 65, as explained by our investigator in her assessment. In my view, such a rate 
of required investment growth was incompatible with Mr Ts Conservative risk profile 
and the discount rate. The critical yield indicated that it was likely Mr T would be 
financially worse off as a result of the pension transfer;
Notwithstanding the above, I think the critical yield figure of 6.7% was incorrect. This 
is because the basis of the advice was that Firm A would provide ongoing advice to            
Mr T at a cost  but the cost wasnt taken into account when calculating the critical 
yield. Including that ongoing advice cost wouldve led to the critical yield being 
greater than 6.7%, which further increased the risk that Mr T would be worse off by 
transferring. In addition, the basis of the recommendation was that Mr T was seeking 
to take benefits at somewhere around age 55. If that was the case then I wouldve 
expected IFM to also calculate the critical yield figure at age 55 to enable Mr T to 
make an informed decision. But it didnt. I think this was a material oversight because 
the critical yield figure at age 55 wouldve been greater than 6.7% due to the shorter 
investment timeframe and impact of the initial advice charge on the required growth 
rate. This meant that Mr T wasnt provided accurate information about the level of 
investment growth required in the PPP to match the scheme pension if he took 
benefits earlier than age 65; and
In my view, the suitability report failed to meet the fair, clear and not misleading 
requirements of COBS 4.2.1R. It was generic with templated wording to describe               
Mr Ts objectives with the result that the recommendation wasnt sufficiently tailored 
to his individual circumstances. I think it lacked sufficient colour and detail. As noted 
above, it included misleading information regarding the critical yield and benefits 
payable by the BSPS at age 55. And it failed to provide sufficient information on 
alternative options to achieve Mr Ts stated objectives. I think these inadequacies in 
the suitability report led to him making an uninformed decision to proceed with a 
pension transfer when this was not in his best interests.
Conclusion
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why Mr Ts 
generic objectives wouldve been sufficiently compelling reasons for him to relinquish 
valuable benefit guarantees by transferring to a PPP at that time, especially in view of his 
level of reliance on these monies to provide retirement income. Based on what Ive seen, I 
think IFM failed to give adequate consideration to the risk that Mr T couldnt financially bear 
the risks involved in the pension transfer. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me the 
pension transfer was in his best interests compared to the alternative option of transferring to 
the BSPS2. In conclusion, Ive decided that the advice didnt comply with COBS 9.2.1R(1) or 
9.2.2R(1) and wasnt in line with the guidance in COBS 19.1.6G. As a result, I think its fair 
and reasonable to uphold this complaint.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr T, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator.
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr T wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 
and his benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. Im not convinced that it could be 
reasonably determined at the time that the PPF was the likely better option for Mr T. And so I 
think, given his age and the lack of clarity surrounding when he would retire, the BSPS2 was 
likely the better option for him based on what was known at the time and that at age 65 the 
BSPS2 would provide a higher level of benefits than the PPF. As such, the calculation on the 
basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out. For clarity, compensation should be 
based on the BSPS2s normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr T and our service upon completion of the 
calculation.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ts 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr T before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his PPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr T receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr T accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge Mr T for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ts end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr T as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been 
taxed according to Mr Ts likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, IFM should pay Mr T £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation, as recommended by our investigator.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £170,000, I 
would additionally require Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr T any interest 
on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds 
£170,000, I would only require Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr T any 
interest as set out above on the sum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr T the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr T. 
If Mr T accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr T can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want 
to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman