complaint  
Mr P complains that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited unfairly charged him a cancellation 
fee for a car insurance policy it had arranged, after the insurer withdrew its offer of cover.  
background  
On 26 July 2019, Mr P arranged new car insurance throug h Atlanta. The policy was due to 
start on 2 August 2019, after his existing policy had ended. The policy cost £405  which 
was made up of £360 for the policy premium, and £45 for Atlantas arrangement fee.  
Mr P was involved in a car accident on 28 July 20 19, and he made a claim with his previous 
insurer. On 2 August 2019, he contacted Atlanta to make it aware that he had made a claim 
with his previous insurer, and it updated his new insurer. However, due to the number of 
claims Mr P had now made before his  new policy had started, the insurer was no longer 
prepared to offer him cover.  
Mr Ps new insurer continued to provide h im with cover until 12 August 2019 to give him time 
to arrange alternative insurance. Atlanta refunded Mr P £346. This was the £405 he had paid 
for the policy, less £9 policy premiums charged by the insurer for the short time on cover, 
and Atlantas £50 ca ncellation  fee. 
Mr P brought a complaint to this service about the £50 fee. The complaint was considered by 
one of our investigators, but she thought Atlanta was entitled to apply the £50 cancellation 
charge because this was set out in its terms and condi tions. Mr P didnt consider the 
outcome fair, so the matter was passed to me to  decide.  
I issued my provisional decision in May 2020. I explained I intended to uphold the complaint 
and award Mr P £150. In my provisional decision I said:  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr P is unhappy with the insurers decision to no longer offer him cover. However, Im not 
considering the insurers decision here. Im o nly considering the issues relating to Atlanta; 
the broker that arranged the cover.  
Mr P has asked us to consider a complaint against the insurer about its decision to withdraw 
its offer of cover, and we have asked him to complete a complaint form so we c an take that 
complaint forward. We dont appear to have received the form back from him, so if Mr P 
does still want us to consider whether the insurer acted fairly, he needs to contact our 
investigator to let her know.  
DRN-1924146Atlanta has cla rified that its £50 charge is made up of its £45 arrangement fee and a further  
£5 cancellation fee. However, in my decision, I will simply refer to the £50 as a cancellation 
charge because its the amount that was charged for a policy that was cancelled wi thin the 
14-day cooling -off period.  
 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook sets out the 
rules that relate to cancellatio n within the 14 -day cooling -off period. The rules can be found 
in section seven. The rules are regarding an insureds right to cancel their policy within this 
period and the charges that might apply. Although Mr P didnt cancel his policy, the insurer 
did, I consider it reasonable to consider and apply the principles of those rules here.  
 
The rules explain that the amount payable may include any sums a business has reasonably 
incurred but should not include any element of profit  or be a penalty. They also  explain  
a business must not require a consumer to pay any amount unless it can prove that 
they were duly informed about the amount payable.  
 
I havent seen the cancellation charge was proportionate to the costs Atlanta incurred when 
arranging and cancelli ng the policy, and I havent seen Mr P was told about the cancellation 
charge before agreeing to buy the policy. So, at this stage, Im not satisfied the £50 charge 
was in -keeping with the rules. However, I acknowledge that we havent previously asked 
Atlanta to show us the charge was proportionate to its costs, or to show Mr P was given 
clear details about the charge before he bought his policy. Therefore, if Atlanta doesnt 
accept what I go on to say next, it needs to provide this information for me to co nsider.  
 
Irrespective of whether the charge was proportionate to Atlantas costs and whether Mr P 
was informed of the charge before buying the policy, I need to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
In my view, its  unreasonable for Mr P to have to pay a cancellation charge simply because 
the insurer was no longer prepared to offer him cover following an unforeseen claim. Mr P 
couldnt have known that he would be involved in an accident between arranging his new 
cove r and before that policy started. This isnt a case of the insurer cancelling the policy 
because Mr P had failed to disclose or provide information. I dont consider Mr P can 
reasonably be held responsible, in any way, for the insurers decision.  
 
I apprec iate Atlanta isnt at fault for the cancellation either, and I accept it will have incurred 
some costs in arranging the cover and the cancellation. But on balance, I consider it more 
reasonable for Atlanta to burden its costs of doing business, than for Mr  P to be charged.  
The reason I say this is because the insurers offer of cover was withdrawn, and Mr Ps 
policy cancelled, for reasons outside of his control.  
 
Because I m not persuaded the cancellation charge was fairly applied by Atlanta, I intend to 
decide it should refund the £50 to Mr P, and compensate him a further £100 for the upset 
and inconvenience this matter has caused.  
 
Mr P accepted my provisional decision. H owever, Atlanta provided the following comments 
for my consideration:  
 
 The policy was purchased online and Mr P would have confirmed he had read and 
understood Atlanta s terms of business before completing the purchase. Atlanta 
provided a screenshot of an online page to support what it  says.   As a broker, one of Atlantas primary roles is to administer the policy on behalf of the 
insurer. It has i ncurred administrational costs in both setting up and then cancelling 
the policy.  
 
 The £50 charge included a £45 new business fee, which is applied at the point of 
purchase and retained following any cancellation. The only additional fee applied 
followin g cancellation was  £5. 
 
 Atlantas general staffing costs per policy is about £35. The circumstances of the 
cancellation involved more administration, and as a result more  cost.  
 
 Atlanta accepts the cancellation was not Mr Ps fault, but it also wasnt Atlantas fault 
and it has still been involved in the  administration.  
 
 Atlanta accepts this matter has caused Mr P d istress and inconvenience. However, 
being involved in a claim and this then affecting the insurers decision to maintain 
cover, would have always led to a degree of  inconvenience.  
 
 Atlantas fees are inline with other brokers in the industry, and it does nt accept that it 
would be fair to the broker to be asked to burden the  cost.  
 
my findings  
 
Ive re -considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
I thank Atlanta for its c omments, but Ive reached the same outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision. Ill explain why.  
 
I accept Atlantas £50 fee was broadly in -line with the costs it incurred when setting -up and 
cancelling the policy; and the fees were set out at the point of sale. However, Im still not 
persuaded it would be fair or reasonable for Mr P to have to pay an arrangement and/or 
cancellation fee when the insurer withdrew its offer of cover before the policy even 
commenced, and importantly, for a reason outside of Mr Ps control.  
 
I accept its not Atlantas fault the insurer decided to withdraw its offer of cover. However, In 
the circumstances of this complaint, I consider fairer for Atlanta to burden its costs than for 
Mr P to have to. If Atlanta considers it unfa ir that its suffered a loss due to the insurers 
decision, it can take the matter up with the insurer.  
 
I also remain of the view that Mr P has suffered upset and inconvenience that could have 
been avoided had Atlanta taken a fairer approach to its fees, given the circumstances the 
offer of cover was withdrawn.  
 
my final decision  
 
For the reasons set out abo ve, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint.  
 
My final decision is Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited should reimburse Mr P the £50 fee 
and compensate him £100  so, it should pay him £150 in total.  Under the rules of  the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.  
Vince Martin  
Ombudsman  