DRN-4132640
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made 
on his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr Ms car was damaged in an accident, and he made a claim on his policy. Advantages 
engineer said his car was beyond economical repair, but Mr M wanted Advantage to repair 
it. Advantage said Mr M didnt contact it to discuss his settlement, so it closed the claim. But 
Mr M wanted Advantage to pursue the other drivers insurer for liability. Advantage said it 
couldnt do this as it didnt have an outlay to recover. Mr M was also unhappy that his 
premiums had increased since the incident. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Advantage had reasonably relied on an engineers assessment that the car was beyond 
economical repair, so he thought it neednt repair it. He thought Advantage hadnt acted 
unfairly in closing the claim as it had made multiple attempts to contact Mr M. He thought 
Advantage was unable to pursue liability until it had costs to recover. And he explained that 
any incident can lead to an increase in premium.
Mr M replied that he thought Advantage had unfairly refused to repair his car. He thought it 
hadnt engaged with him to discuss a settlement. And he thought it had unfairly doubled his 
premiums when he had six years No Claims Discount (NCD). He thought Advantage should 
repair his car and pass the cost to the other insurer. He wants a fair settlement, 
compensation for his stress and frustration, and a refund of the increase in his premium. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has explained that the claim has caused him pain, stress and frustration that has 
aggravated his health condition. I was sorry to hear about this. And I can understand that it 
must be inconvenient to be without a car.
The accident occurred at a roundabout and Mr M said the other driver hit his car in the rear. 
Mr M said he wasnt at fault for the accident and so Advantage should recover its costs from 
the other insurer. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr M the same as someone else in his position. 
Advantage is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr M to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr M has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. 
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision on liability. But, in this case, and in keeping with industry 
practice, Advantage cant pursue liability with the other drivers insurer as it hasnt made an 
outlay it needs to recover. 
I can see that Advantage offered Mr M a settlement for the total loss of his car, but he hasnt 
accepted this. Until he does, then Advantage is unable to pursue liability. And, in the 
meantime, I think Advantage reasonably closed the claim. I think its for Mr M to contact 
Advantage to reopen his claim and proceed with his settlement if he so chooses. I can see 
that hes expressed an interest in buying back the cars salvage and repairing the car 
himself. And Advantage has provided information about how to proceed with this. 
Mr M thought Advantage should just take his car to a main dealer and have it repaired, 
whatever the cost, and recover its outlay from the other drivers insurer. But I dont agree. 
Advantage has a duty to recover reasonable costs and it has to justify its outlay. So it needs 
to assess likely repair costs and decide whether or not its economical to repair a car. And, in 
this case, I can see that Advantage relied on an engineers assessment that the car was 
beyond economical repair. I cant see any engineering evidence to contradict this. So I cant 
say that Advantage should repair Mr Ms car. 
Mr M said the engineer hadnt physically inspected his car. But this isnt unusual. Qualified 
engineers can rely on photographs and desk top assessments to decide likely repair costs. 
So I cant say this was unfair or unreasonable. Advantage did offer to collect Mr Ms car and 
inspect it. But from what I can see, Mr M didnt agree with this offer. So, whilst I can 
understand that Mr Ms unhappy that his car hasnt been repaired, I think Advantage has 
reasonably handled his claim and I dont require it to pay Mr M any compensation. 
Mr M was unhappy that his policy premium doubled at renewal. While some insurers will 
only rate on NCD disallowed or fault claims, others will consider any claim  or even just a 
claim notification  as a risk factor. This is because insurers say that drivers who have 
been involved in incidents, regardless of fault, are more likely to be involved in future claims. 
I can understand that Mr M may find this to be illogical. But being involved in an incident 
could be linked to such things as his use of higher risk roads or junctions or driving at 
particular times. 
Its not our role to tell an insurer how to price its policies or what factors it should consider 
when calculating a risk. Advantages decision to rate on all claims, regardless of fault, is its 
commercial decision. This doesnt break any relevant regulations and its in keeping with 
standard industry practice. 
Mr M had the opportunity to look for cover elsewhere rather than renew with Advantage. And 
I cant see that Advantage has treated Mr M differently to any of its other customers. And so, 
as this isnt something that I would normally interfere with as it is a legitimate exercise of its 
commercial judgement, I dont require Advantage to refund any premium to Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman