DRN-4495358
The complaint
Mr S complains about the acts and advice of Ms L in the switch of his personal pensions to a 
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to purchase commercial property belonging to his 
business. The purchase didnt proceed and he thinks his pension has lost value and incurred 
unnecessary fees as a result. Ms L was connected to Policy Services Limited (PSL) from 
2018 onwards and Mr S thinks that PSL is therefore responsible.
What happened
Ms L worked was an adviser at Sanlam. In 2016, Mr S was looking to purchase his 
businesss commercial property with his pension. Ms L advised Mr S to consolidate his three 
personal pensions into one Sanlam personal pension. It appears that this advice was on the 
basis that Mr S might make the property purchase at some later point in time via a SIPP, but 
that it was a good idea to bring all his pensions together until that time.
I understand the switch was completed a short time later although I dont have all the details 
for this. As part of the switch, there was an ongoing service advice charge of 0.55% from 
Mr Ss fund value.
Ms L then left Sanlam and moved to St James Place (SJP) in July 2018. As SJP advisers 
cant advise on non-SJP products (such as Sanlam products), Ms L also signed an 
agreement with PSL. Broadly, the agreement allowed Ms L to continue to provide an 
ongoing service and receive fees (via PSL) from legacy advice conducted as a Sanlam 
adviser that she and her clients assigned to PSL. But the agreement set out that Ms L could 
not give advice on behalf of PSL and would need to refer clients back to PSL if advice was 
required by a client. 
It seems that this eventually led to Mr S formally signing an agreement in July 2019 with PSL 
for the ongoing service being provided by Ms L. But PSL says that it took over servicing of 
Mr Ss plans earlier - from July 2018.
Mr S says he was advised by Ms L in 2019 to switch his pensions to a Sanlam SIPP to 
facilitate the property purchase first discussed in 2016. The application documents are dated 
March and May 2019 and the adviser is noted as being Ms L. Ms L gives her firm details on 
the forms as those of PSL. Ms L also says of the commission arrangements on one of the 
forms:
Rather than advice fee, I am looking to take an ad hoc fee of £6,000 in total and an 
ongoing fee as per suitability report
The property purchase did not complete. The reasons for this appear to be a combination of 
a refusal by Sanlam SIPP to purchase the property and difficulties with the freeholder. 
Because of the failure to acquire the property and the losses he said he suffered by not 
receiving suitable advice, Mr S complained to a number of the regulated parties associated 
with Ms L:
His complaint against Sanlam was upheld when it was referred to our service. It was 
decided that Ms Ls advice in 2016 was not suitable and that Sanlam should 
compensate Mr S for his losses arising from that advice  up to July 2018 when Ms L 
moved to SJP and PSL. I understand that compensation has been paid to Mr S and 
that complaint has been closed.
His complaint against SJP was held to be not one that we could consider under our 
jurisdiction rules. It was decided that after Ms L moved to SJP in 2018, SJP had not 
authorised Ms L to give advice on non-SJP products. So, if shed given any advice 
about the Sanlam pensions, that wasnt something that SJP was responsible for. 
That complaint is also closed.
This decision deals with Mr Ss complaint about Ms Ls association with PSL. PSLs 
response to the complaint was that its role was to provide information and 
correspondence to Ms L in order for her to provide an ongoing service to Mr S. But it 
was not responsible for any advice shed given in her previous role as a Sanlam 
adviser or any other advice she may have later given.
However, it did agree to refund Mr S for a £3,000 fee that had been taken from his 
policy in error.
One of our investigators looked at the PSL complaint and decided that we had jurisdiction to 
consider one aspect of it, but not all of it. He said that PSL was not responsible (and so we 
did not have jurisdiction) for the advice Ms L had given before she joined PSL in 2018. He 
also said that although Ms L had filled out the application documents in 2019 purporting to 
be a PSL adviser, she was not authorised by PSL to give any investment advice or 
arrangements and therefore it was not responsible for the advice in 2019 either.
However, he said that PSL had obligations to Mr S as the servicing agent for the pensions. 
This was something that we did have jurisdiction to consider. But having looked at the 
evidence, he didnt think PSL had done anything wrong. He said that Mr Ss pension was 
invested in cash pending the resolution of the issue relating to the property purchase and 
this and the charges were causing Mr Ss pension to suffer a comparative loss but this 
wasnt something that PSL had advised on. That strategy had been set up by Ms L whilst 
working for Sanlam. Furthermore, Mr S could have asked PSL to undertake a review and 
provide advice  but didnt do so. So, overall, the investigator thought that PSLs offer to 
refund the £3,000 fees taken in error was fair and he didnt think PSL should pay any further 
compensation.
Mr S didnt agree and so the matter was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on 13 November 2023 setting out that part of the complaint 
was in jurisdiction and should be upheld. 
PSL did not dispute my findings. 
Mr S asked me to consider the fact that hed been advised to take a loan out too as part of 
the overall transaction. This matter has not been dealt with before and so wed need to 
consider that as a separate complaint and I dont deal with it in this decision. Mr S should 
provide further details if he wants us to look into this. However I dont think it should hold up 
the resolution of this matter. Mr S should also note the limits of what PSL (and other parties) can be held responsible for  he has a better idea of this now based on the complaints hes 
already made and the answers hes received from our service.
Given the above, my decision below remains the same as my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided - jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence thats been provided. Having done so, Im satisfied this 
complaint is one that the Financial Ombudsman Service has jurisdiction to consider.
This service cant look at all complaints. Our ability to consider complaints is set out in 
Chapter 2 (DISP 2) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook.
There are essentially three aspects of the complaint  even though they all form part of the 
alleged failure to appropriately advise and implement the same overriding objective for Mr S: 
the purchase of the commercial property using Mr Ss pension.
1. The original advice in 2016 to switch to the Sanlam personal pension.
2. The advice to switch to the Sanlam SIPP in 2019.
3. The failure between 2016-2021 to appropriately advise and provide a service to Mr S.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can: 
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which 
the firmis responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for 
anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business for which 
he has accepted responsibility.
Looking at DISP, point 1. above can be dealt with quite briefly. Ms L wasnt associated with 
PSL at the time of the advice. She was a Sanlam adviser until July 2018. Sanlam has 
compensated Mr S for losses he sustained between 2016 and 2018 as a result of this 
advice. And this is not a matter that PSL has any liability for because it was not business 
conducted by one of its representatives or that it had otherwise accepted responsibility for. 
As such, we dont have jurisdiction to consider a complaint against PSL for the advice in 
2016.
Point 2 is also not a matter that we have jurisdiction to consider against PSL. Although Ms L 
was a PSL introducer from July 2018 onwards and appears to have used PSLs details in 
completing Mr Ss SIPP application, she was not authorised by PSL to give investment 
advice or make investment arrangements on its behalf. So, any advice and arrangements 
made for the SIPP by Ms L in 2019 is not business for which PSL accepted responsibility for. 
I should point out that there may be other jurisdiction barriers to our consideration of point 2 
as it relates directly to advice about the use of Mr Ss pension for the commercial property 
purchase belonging to his business  which means Mr S may not be a consumer under our 
rules. But I havent covered this because of the finding in the previous paragraph.Point 3 is a matter we have jurisdiction to consider. It is a general matter rather than one 
directly relating to the commercial property purchase. PSL accepts that it took on 
responsibility for servicing Mr Ss pension from the time Ms L left Sanlam in July 2018. There 
is no dispute that PSL was conducting a regulated activity as a result of the ongoing 
service for Mr S in the period after July 2018. Therefore, Im satisfied that we do have 
jurisdiction to consider the role of PSL in any losses sustained by Mr S from that period until 
2021 when Mr S appears to have cut ties with Ms L and PSL.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The agreement between PSL and Mr S wasnt completed until July 2019 but, as mentioned, 
PSL says it took over servicing of his pension from July 2018. Having looked at the 
agreement, I think its clear in setting out that further investment advice would only be 
provided if Mr S required it and Ms L wasnt able to offer a SJP product in her role as a SJP 
adviser: 
[PSL] will not provide an ongoing assessment of suitability of your policies or plans 
as part of the Ongoing Service except if we are appointed as your agent in respect of 
discretionary fund management (DFM) services - see the Discretionary Fund 
Management section. We will notify you in writing if those terms apply to you. 
However, you can request further information or advice from us at any time. Details 
of the charges for advice are in the Advice Tariff section of this document.
In the circumstances, I dont think PSL was required or instructed to advise Mr S about 
whether he should switch his investment funds.
The agreement between PSL and Mr S did however set out that, in return for an annual fee 
of 1% of his fund value, PSL would provide:
a full comprehensive valuation report once a year;
a valuation report 6 months after the comprehensive report;
and that, via Ms L, PSL would provide an ongoing service review twice a year. The 
definition of this was as follows:
Your Partner [i.e. Ms L] will contact you to arrange an Ongoing Servicing Review 
either face to face, on-line or by telephone at the frequency stated in line with your 
selected Servicing Level. [PSL] will produce a Portfolio Valuation Report or Valuation 
Summary as part of the Ongoing Servicing in line with your Servicing Level. Your 
Partner can discuss this information, relating to your policies or plans, with you and 
answer any questions.
The agreement also set out that:
Levels of Ongoing Service
As mentioned earlier we respect the relationship you have with your Partner.
We have a contractual agreement with Your Partner and, should you decide to agree 
to our Ongoing Services, we will provide you and your Partner with up to date 
information on your Non-SJP policies or plans.Your Ongoing Servicing Reviews will be delivered by your Partner on behalf of 
Policy Services. The frequency and timing of these Ongoing Servicing Reviews will 
be agreed with Your Partner and will be designed to suit your personal and nancial 
circumstances (the options are in the Ongoing Service Costs table below).
At your Ongoing Servicing Reviews with your Partner you can discuss the 
performance of your Non-SJP policies or plans (they can of course discuss your SJP 
Plans at the same time).
The Ongoing Servicing Review may be provided via a face to face meeting with your 
Partner, online, or by telephone, in line with the agreed Ongoing Service Level. If you 
need advice on your Non-SJP policies or plans, your Partner will refer you to Policy 
Services.
We understand that all clients do not have the same Ongoing Service requirements. 
You are free to choose the level of Ongoing Service that best suits your needs. It is 
important, however, that you discuss this with your Partner or Policy Services if you 
are uncertain which service level is right for you considering your needs and the level 
of fees being paid.
(Remember the adviser fees or commission already being paid under your non-SJP 
policies or plans will go towards, or cover the fees set out in the Service Level Table 
below. Therefore, if you are currently being charged 1% under your existing policies 
or plans it would follow that Servicing Level 1 would be your most likely selection).
Please note your Partner or adviser will receive a proportion of the fees payable by 
you for the delivery of your Ongoing Service.
Mr Ss selected servicing level was Level 1  the most expensive and comprehensive 
service offered by PSL.
When I asked PSL what service it actually provided to Mr S, it didnt confirm whether it had 
provided the comprehensive valuation or 6 month valuation reports. It may well have done. 
But in respect of the ongoing review service, it said that Ms L attended eight meetings with 
Mr S between 2018 and 2021.  And PSL provided an email from Ms L that said: 
This is all of the correspondence from when I moved to SJP and [PSL] in June 18 to 
when the property purchase fell through and I was a point of contact to aid the client 
from a service perspective to purchase the business premises he wanted to 
purchase. After this didn't complete with the client I couldn't get hold of them for a 
meeting to discuss how to move forward and if an alternative needed to be 
considered due to him being out of the market/funds therefore I had intended to 
review plans and consider a move to an SJP retirement account or refer 
backed for advice to policy services but this was not possible as [Mr S and his 
wife] would not return calls, emails
PSL explained that:
The clients were entitled to annual review of their policies. As we have demonstrated 
[Ms L] met the clients regularly to discuss their position/plans. In addition to the 
meetings, there were also regular telephone calls and emails. It was not possible to 
carry out the traditional review (as detailed in our client proposition) as the 
policy set up had not yet been completed however [Ms L] had substantial 
communications with the clients which we feel would justify the fees being received. The application process eventually came to a halt as Sanlam and [the freeholder] 
could not come to an agreement.
(my emphasis in bold)
Mr S cant remember if and how many meetings took place with Ms L. But whether or not 
they took place, it doesnt look like any kind of review of Mr Ss pension happened. PSLs 
and Ms Ls evidence is that they did not. Instead, the meetings that took place appear to 
have focused on the narrow issue of resolving issues with the commercial property to allow it 
to be purchased by Mr Ss pension.
PSL has said that it didnt provide the traditional review (which Ive understood to mean 
Ongoing Service Review) because of the circumstances involved in Mr Ss case and the 
difficulties with the commercial property. But it knew this or ought to have known about this 
when it took on the servicing rights to Mr Ss pension in July 2018. Despite this, it agreed to 
offer the ongoing review service and received fees for this.
In total PSL received over £6,500 in fees from July 2018 to February 2021. PSL accepts that 
£3,000 was received in error and has offered to repay this. But the question I must deal with 
is whether PSL treated Mr S fairly in respect of the remainder of the fees it took from Mr S 
for the service it agreed to provide.
The regulator has issued a factsheet on ongoing fees which Ive shared with PSL which 
says, You must ensure you have robust systems and controls in place to make sure your 
clients receive the ongoing service you have committed to. So, in situations like this, the 
emphasis is on the business actually providing (not just offering to provide) the service and 
the consumer receiving it. It is not enough to invite the consumer for reviews (or even fail to 
do that), but then still apply the charges. 
Im aware that PSLs agreement with Mr S said that Ms L would be the principal contact and 
would agree the ongoing service requirements. So, its possible that Ms L might have orally 
agreed to do something different than set out in writing in the PSL agreement. But, I dont 
think thats likely. Instead I think its more likely that Ms L intended for the ongoing fee 
arrangements to continue as per what shed agreed with Mr S as a Sanlam adviser. I say 
this because her notes in the SIPP application in 2019 said:
I am looking to take an ad hoc fee of £6,000 in total and an ongoing fee as per 
suitability report. (my emphasis)
The original suitability report with Sanlam said that the ongoing advice fee would be payable 
for an annual review service that included an advisory review  all for 0.55%. I dont think it 
likely that Ms L would have told Mr S that he would be charged more by PSL (1%) for a 
lesser service because of issues with the commercial property.
Taking this all into account, I think PSL had a duty to provide the ongoing review service it 
agreed to provide to Mr S. Im not persuaded it provided this service to the extent it said it 
would or at all. It likely knew there were issues that meant that Mr S was in an unusual 
situation where he was trying to implement a difficult property purchase via his pension. In 
those circumstances, it should not have charged him for a service it wasnt and couldnt 
provide.
As such, I think it would be fair and reasonable for PSL to refund Mr S all the fees he paid.Putting things right
PSL shouldnt have taken the fees it charged Mr S from his pension. 
If PSL hadnt deducted the fees (including the £3,000 PSL accepts it deducted in error), then 
the money would have remained invested in Mr Ss pension. So it would be fair for PSL to 
ask Mr Ss pension provider (Sanlam  or his current pension provider if he has since 
switched) to calculate the current notional transfer values had he not incurred the fees. If 
there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation, then a benchmark of the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index for half the fees and for the other half the 
average rate from fixed rate bonds should be used to calculate the value. That is likely to be 
a reasonable and practical proxy.
I understand that PSL have said it would be easier to follow the benchmark method  that is 
acceptable. 
Any additional sum that Mr S paid into the pension should be added to the notional transfer 
value calculation proportionately at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the pension should be deducted 
proportionately from the fair value calculations at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if PSL totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end.
Since the loss Mr S has suffered is within his pension, its right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if thats possible. So, if possible, the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into Mr Ss pension plan if it still exists. The compensation shouldnt be paid 
into the pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into 
the pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may 
mean the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally 
allow for the income tax relief Mr S could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated 
using Mr Ss marginal rate of tax.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into Mr Ss pension, the compensation should be 
paid to Mr S direct. But had it been possible to pay the compensation into the pension, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation for the loss paid to Mr 
S should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid. Its reasonable to assume that Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, as Mr S would have been able 
to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15% current basic rate of tax. 
PSL should also pay Mr S £150 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused
him  which has exacerbated an already difficult time for him with regard to his pension
provision.
PSL should pay fair compensation as set out above within 28 days of being notified that Mr 
S has accepted my decision. If it doesnt, interest on the compensation due is to be paid 
from the date of the decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple interest per 
year. PSL should pay this interest directly to Mr S.  Income tax may be payable on any 
interest paid. If PSL deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr S how much has 
been taken off. PSL should give Mr S a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr S asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold that part Mr Ss complaint that we have jurisdiction to consider. Policy Services 
Limited should pay Mr S the compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Abdul Hafez
Ombudsman