DRN-2967921
The complaint
Mr T complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) incorrectly sent funds from 
his encashed income bond to the wrong nominated bank account number. He also says 
NS&I deleted part of a conversation he had with NS&I on a call recording he requested. 
What happened
Mr T encashed his income bond with NS&I on 11 November 2020 for just over £13,000. He 
instructed NS&I to transfer the funds to his nominated bank account. Mr T had recently 
changed who he banked with, but he was confident he provided NS&I with his correct new 
bank account number. 
On 12 November 2020 Mr T received a call from NS&Is security team. Mr T says NS&I 
asked various security questions, but it was mainly interested in his new bank account 
number. Mr T says he couldnt remember the number and simply explained that it was a 
nine-digit number and either the first or last number needed to be dropped. Mr T says NS&I 
seemed to understand this and said the funds should shortly be received in his new bank 
account.
Mr T checked his new bank account online but found that the funds hadnt been received. So 
he contacted his new bank to try and trace the transaction. Mr T called NS&I back on 17 
November 2020 to explain the funds hadnt been received into his bank account and added 
that hed received a call from NS&Is security team on 13 November 2020 which seemed a 
bit strange. NS&I explained that it can call to make additional checks when bank account 
details have changed. NS&I explained that the payment had been confirmed and then 
provided Mr T with the last three digits of his new bank account number for him to contact 
his bank. 
Mr T called NS&I back on 19 November 2020 to explain that the funds still hadnt been 
received and this time NS&I were able to give him the full bank account number the funds 
had been transferred to. Mr T explained that this was the wrong bank account number and 
said that it must have been changed during the call on 12 November 2020. NS&I explained 
on the call that the funds hadnt been returned yet by the bank and so he would need to wait 
until this has happened. Mr T was unhappy with this response and so he raised a formal 
complaint with NS&I. 
NS&I looked into Mr Ts complaint and partially upheld it. It said it had listened to the calls 
and had noted it didnt provide Mr T with the full bank account number the funds had been 
sent to until he called bank on 19 November 2020. NS&I apologised for this and explained it 
would have been helpful for it to have accessed another internal system to provide him with 
this during the call on 17 November 2020. NS&I offered Mr T £50 in recognition of this. 
However, NS&I confirmed its security team didnt discuss the bank account number during 
the call on 12 November 2020 and said it had sent the funds to the bank account number Mr 
T had inputted himself online on 11 November 2020. NS&I acknowledged that Mr Ts 
request for it to complete a credit payment recovery but confirmed his new bank had traced 
the funds and so NS&I was waiting for the funds to be returned. 
Mr T remained unhappy and so he brought the complaint to our service. 
When providing our service with its file, NS&I confirmed the funds had been returned on 26 
February 2021. Because of the delay in doing so, NS&I offered an additional £100 for the 
inconvenience caused. Mr T accepted the offer but still remained unhappy with NS&Is 
explanation as to why the funds were sent to the wrong account. Mr T said he was 
concerned with NS&Is security practices as he had been sent the call recording from 12 
November 2020 and this had been altered. He said the call recording didnt contain the 
discussion he had with NS&I regarding the alteration of his bank account number.
An investigator at our service considered Mr Ts complaint but felt the offer NS&I had made 
was fair. She confirmed she listened to the call Mr T had with NS&Is security and said there 
was no discussion about the bank account number. She said that whilst she understood Mr 
Ts concerns, she could only base her view on the evidence available. And she wasnt 
convinced the call had been altered. She also added that NS&Is system notes show that the 
incorrect bank account number was entered online before this call was made. 
Mr T didnt accept the investigators opinion. He said he wanted our service to consider the 
possible weaknesses in the internal control systems at NS&I due to its staff working from 
home during the COVID-19 pandemic. Our investigator responded by explaining that our 
service isnt the financial regulator, this is the Financial Conduct Authority (The FCA),  and 
so our service doesnt dictate what security practices a business should have in place.  
As Mr T remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. So 
Im not going to uphold this complaint.
I understand Mr T has accepted the offer of £150, which has now been paid by NS&I and so 
I wont comment on the offer made in my decision. Instead, my decision will focus on 
whether I think the transfer to a different bank account was due to an error or by NS&I and 
whether it needs to do anything further. 
I appreciate that not knowing where his funds had been transferred must have been very 
stressful for Mr T, especially as it was considerable amount of money that had gone missing. 
However, from all the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance this was caused by 
Mr T entering the incorrect bank account number online. I say this as NS&I has provided our 
service with an internal screenshot which shows Mr T entered the incorrect bank account 
number on 11 November 2020 at around 15:30 - prior to the call he had with the security 
team the following day.
Ive also carefully listened to the call Mr T had with the security team on 12 November 2020 
and confirm no discussion was had around Mr Ts bank account number. Whilst Im unable 
to say with certainty that the call wasnt altered or that parts werent deleted, from what I can 
hear, the call seemed like a relatively short, straightforward and uninterrupted standard 
security check call. NS&I went through a number of security questions in relation to Mr Ts 
personal details and the type of account he held with NS&I. It then explained that it was 
calling due to him changing who he banks with on the account and so it needed to verify he 
made the change. Once he confirmed he had, NS&I confirmed the funds should be received 
the same day, it thanked Mr T for his time and the call was ended.Ive also listened carefully to the calls Mr T made to NS&I on 17 and 19 November 2020. It 
was during the call on 17 November 2020 in which Mr T said he was unable to provide his 
full bank account number. He said he would need to access this information through the 
phone he was using to call and so couldnt access it without ending the call first. NS&I 
confirmed that the transfer had been made to the account provided. Mr T raised concerns 
regarding the call he had previously received, and NS&I explained why the security call 
wouldve been made. It was at this point that Mr T said it was possible that he may have 
entered the wrong bank account number because of the confusion regarding the 
requirement to drop a number either at the start or the end of his new bank account number. 
NS&I confirmed the transfer had completed and provided the last three numbers of the bank 
account number it had been made to. Mr T said he would use this information to check 
whether these details were correct. 
Whilst Im not persuaded NS&I were at fault for the funds being transferred to the wrong 
account, I do think it could have provided Mr T with more information to allow him to trace 
the funds. Im pleased to see NS&I acknowledged that it should have provided Mr T with the 
full account number the funds had been transferred to when he called the first time on 17 
November 2020 and then increased its offer to reflect any further delay it caused. 
I understand Mr T would like a thorough investigation into the security systems in place at 
NS&I, especially around the practices it had in place for employees working from home 
during the COVID-19 pandemic. However, I dont agree this is necessary in this instance, as 
Im satisfied Mr T entered the incorrect bank account number himself and Ive not been 
provided with any evidence to suggest the error was made as part of a security breach. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against National Savings and 
Investments. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2021. 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman