DRN-2901649
The complaint
Mr V complains on behalf of B that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined its claim for 
storm damage under its landlord insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr V logged a claim for storm damage at a tenanted property owned by B 
and insured by UKI. Mr V said the storm damage was from August 2020. The roof had been 
damaged. Subsequent leaks had caused internal damage. He told UKI hed had a quote for 
repairs. 
Later that month Bs letting agents confirmed the date of loss. UKI instructed a surveyor to 
assess the damage at the property. UKI said they received an e-mail from Mr V informing 
them that repair work had started. They said they were happy for him to carry out temporary 
work to stop the leak but noted that further work may prejudice the claim. 
After reviewing the surveyors inspection report, UKI declined the claim. They said that there 
was no operating peril. 
Unhappy, Mr V complained to UKI. In their December 2020 final response letter, they didnt 
uphold the complaint. They said the surveyors inspection report confirmed that there was no 
evidence of storm-related damage to the roof. They also said that the report had highlighted 
a number of maintenance issues with the roof.
Mr V didnt agree. So he brought Bs complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint. He felt that UKI had reasonably concluded that the weather only highlighted 
existing problems with the roof. So he didnt think UKI had treated B unfairly.
Mr V didnt agree. He felt that a storm had caused the damage. He didnt feel that our 
investigator had fully investigated his complaint. And he felt that our investigator had relied 
on the tenants statement when giving his view. So this complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. If it was then
insurance policies would be prohibitively expensive. Only damage caused by one of the
insured perils (or, events) listed in the policy  fire, theft, escape of water, storm etc.  is
covered. If a policyholder can show that the damage being claimed for is caused by
one of the policy perils then the insurer must pay the claim unless the insurer can rely one of
the policy exclusions to defeat it. If the insurer wishes to rely on a policy exclusion it is its
responsibility to prove it can be successfully applied to defeat the claim.
Mr V feels strongly that Bs roof was damaged by storms in August 2020. But UKI didnt think 
that a storm had caused the damage. They said the bad weather had simply highlighted the 
existing problems with the roof. And so the damage wasnt covered under the policy. They 
couldnt cover the internal damage from the roof leak as no accidental damage cover was 
provided under the policy.
As our investigator mentioned, when our service looks at a storm claim complaint, there are
three questions to consider:
1. Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage is said to have happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer to all three of these questions is yes, then a claim should likely succeed.
However, if the answer to any of the questions is no, then its unlikely the claim would be
covered under the storm damage part of the policy.
For the first question, theres no dispute that there were storms in the area around the 
estimated time of the loss. So I wont consider this further.
For the second question, the surveyor felt that the damage to the roof was due to a number 
of maintenance issues. Some repair work had already been carried out on the roof, so there 
wouldve been no obvious signs of storm damage when the surveyor did his inspection.
However, his report noted a number of different maintenance issues with the roof. He said 
that there was: considerable mortar erosion to the flaunching, and that plant life is 
flourishing from the brickwork, the mortar erosion to these areas is allowing water to 
penetrate the joints of the brickwork and enter the fabric of the building. 
The surveyor also noted gutters which were full of moss and debris. Some were completely 
blocked. He said this was forcing rainwater to run over the top and down the building. And 
that this water was finding its way inside the property through those areas on the roof that 
were defective. 
The surveyor concluded: It is my considered opinion that there has not been an operating 
peril to the property, the damage and defects noted have occurred due to a lack of 
maintenance and general wear and tear, therefore I have declined the claim due to this and 
the lack of mitigation, this is under the terms and conditions of the policy
The surveyor also noted that he met the propertys tenant during the inspection. He said she 
confirmed that water had been leaking into the property for a long time. Mr V disputes what 
the tenant has said.
Having reviewed the report provided by the surveyor, which included photographic evidence 
of the condition of the roof, UKI declined the claim.
But Bs letting agent said that they carried out routine maintenance and repairs on the 
property whenever instructed to. They said they always investigated the cause of a problem. 
And that the process to do this happens very quickly.
They also said that just before the August 2020 storms theyd carried out a full refurbishment 
of the property. This had included full redecoration of all walls and new carpets and flooring 
throughout. They noted that a minor leak had been reported to them and that they attended 
to assess the cause. They found that the flashing around the chimney needed to be replaced. And they said they carried the repair out immediately. They said that no further 
repair works were identified as being immediately needed to the roof at that time.
The letting agent said that when they attended the property after the storms several roof 
slates had been moved. And water had got into the property, causing damage to the interior 
walls and flooring. They told B that it would be cheaper to replace the roof than try to repair 
the damaged areas.
They said that soon after they had carried out temporary repairs to the roof the surveyor 
visited the property. They said they didnt agree with the surveyors view that the claim 
should be denied for general wear and tear. They said that in their opinion the property was 
well maintained.
The photos of the damage to the roof arent going to show visible storm damage as 
temporary repairs had been carried out before they were taken. But, despite what the letting 
agent said, the surveyors report lists a number of maintenance issues with the roof that 
cant have happened because of the storm. And a number of these issues wouldve been 
visible during any recent inspection. For example, several of the gutters are blocked. 
The surveyor is an expert in his field appointed to assess the damage and how it was 
caused. So I cant reasonably conclude that UKI acted unfairly or unreasonably when it 
declined Bs claim. Ive seen no evidence of damage consistent with damage a storm 
normally causes. But Ive seen evidence of a poorly maintained roof detailed in the 
surveyors report and in the photos it contained.  
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that the damage wasnt consistent with the 
damage a storm typically causes. And Im not persuaded that B has shown that the damage 
to the roof was caused by a storm, or any other policy peril. The damage appears to have 
been caused by wear and tear/lack of maintenance to the roof, which isnt covered under Bs 
policy. So I dont consider that UKI did anything wrong when they declined to cover the cost 
of the repairs.
I know Mr V will be disappointed with my decision. But Ive looked at all the information 
provided by all parties to this complaint. If Id needed further information in order to be able 
to make a fair and reasonable decision I wouldve asked for it. While Ive taken on board 
what the propertys tenant is alleged to have said, I havent needed to rely on it in order to 
come to my decision. 
Ive seen photos of a number of areas of the roof that are clearly suffering from a lack of 
maintenance. And Ive seen no evidence of typical storm damage. There were no further 
questions that I needed to ask in order to identify whether the damage to the roof was 
consistent with damage a storm typically causes. So I cant fairly and reasonably ask UKI to 
cover a claim for storm damage.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman