DRN-3245569
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Vanquis Bank Limited handled his credit card during the 
pandemic. 
What happened
Mr M has a credit card with Vanquis and on 19 March 2020 he got in touch and asked for 
support as he was experiencing financial difficulties. Vanquis told Mr M he wasnt eligible for 
a payment holiday or credit limit increase and he raised a complaint. 
Vanquis responded and refunded late payment and over limit charges applied to the credit 
card. Vanquis also credited Mr Ms account to cover his next minimum payment which meant 
his next payment was due on 14 May 2020. 
Mr M complained in May 2020 after receiving arrears letters from Vanquis. Mr M said a 
payment freeze had been agreed. Vanquis responded and agreed in June 2020 a three 
month payment freeze, backdating it to April 2020. That meant, the payment freeze covered 
April, May and June 2020. Vanquis also apologised for the service provided and paid £50 to 
Mr Ms credit card. 
Vanquis sent Mr M a follow up final response as it hadnt commented on mobile app 
problems hed experienced previously. Vanquis apologised and paid Mr M £50 for the delay. 
But Vanquis didnt uphold the overall complaint. 
In July 2020 Mr M complained about how long a call had taken and problems with his online 
banking. Vanquis apologised for the delay and paid £50 into his account. Vanquis confirmed 
Mr Ms online banking facility was working. 
In November 2020 Mr M complained that Vanquis had failed to provide reasonable support, 
in line with government guidance, during the pandemic. Vanquis didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint and said it had acted in line with Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld 
Mr Ms complaint and said Vanquis should apply a payment holiday, in line with the FCA 
payment deferral guidance, retrospectively from April to September 2020 and remove any 
adverse information reported to the credit reference agencies for May and June 2020. The 
investigator also recommended Vanquis pay Mr M an additional £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Vanquis agreed but Mr M asked to appeal. As a result, his complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties appear to 
broadly agree about what happened. I can see Mr M has made several complaints about the 
treatment he received from Vanquis during the pandemic. And I agree with the investigators 
view that Vanquis shouldve provided more comprehensive assistance, in line with the FCA 
payment deferral guidance. 
Under the FCA guidance, consumers could apply for two three month payment deferral 
periods without impact to their credit file. Vanquis has already accepted the investigators 
recommendations and agreed to backdate the payment deferral to July, August and 
September 2020. That puts Mr M back into the position he wouldve been in had Vanquis 
followed the FCA guidance. Im satisfied thats a fair way to resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
Vanquis paid £56.96 to cover April 2020s payment and refunded three £12 late payment 
fees for the months of March, April and June 2020. In addition, Vanquis paid a total of £150 
to apologise for the service provided to Mr M. Vanquis agree to pay a further £50 to Mr M to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience caused by the way it handled his account. Whilst I 
can see Mr M has been through a difficult time, Im satisfied the agreed settlement reflects 
the impact of the issues raised on him and is fair in all the circumstances. As a result, Im 
upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and, if it hasnt done so already, direct Vanquis 
Bank Limited to settle as follows: 
- Apply the payment holiday to the account, backdated, so it runs from April to 
September 2020
- Remove any adverse credit recorded on Mr Ms credit file for the months of May and 
June 2020
- Pay Mr M an additional £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused (if not already 
paid)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman