DRN-2644680
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs K complain that Assurant General Insurance Limited declined their mobile 
phone insurance claim. My references to Assurant include its agents.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs K have mobile phone insurance through their bank account. Assurant is the 
insurer.
Mr A and Mrs K say their home was burgled and a mobile phone they had registered on the 
policy was one of the items taken. Mrs K called Assurant to make a claim and it asked for 
evidence of call usage and proof of purchase. Mrs K said they couldnt provide call usage as 
the phone wasnt in regular use, it was being used as a tablet and had no sim card. They 
also said the phone was a gift from a relative abroad so they would have to ask for the  
receipt, which they provided.
During the claim Assurant asked Mrs K for details about the burglary. Mrs K accepts that in 
different calls with Assurant she gave different information about where the phone was when 
it was stolen. She said the phone was in their daughters bedroom and then that the phone 
was in a box inside her husbands wardrobe.
Assurant declined the claim. It said Mrs K had provided misleading information about the 
claim and there was no valid proof of ownership, so there was no cover under the policy 
terms. 
Mr A and Mrs K complained to us. They said Mrs K has been confused by all the questions 
from Assurant about the burglary and the phone was still insured no matter where it was in 
the house when stolen. They want Assurant to accept the claim.
Our investigator explained why she thought Assurant fairly declined the claim. She thought 
Mr A and Mrs K hadnt provided sufficient proof of ownership.
Mr A and Mrs K disagree and say theyve provided the information they can. The matter has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Assurant fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I think it did. 
The policy covers theft of a mobile phone but the policy terms and conditions also detail 
what Mr A and Mrs K need to provide to support they have a valid claim. That includes:
We need to know that the mobile phone, SIM card and accessories you are claiming 
for are yours. Therefore you may need to provide some form of proof of ownership.
You will need to be able to tell us the make and model of your mobile phone. We 
may ask to see something that tells us that the items you are claiming for belong to 
you and confirms the make, model, memory size and IMEI number of your mobile 
phone.
The IMEI number is the unique serial number for your mobile phone... It should also 
be noted on the documentation that came with your mobile phone when you 
purchased it. Your airtime provider may also be able to provide it to you.
Proof of ownership could include a till receipt or documentation from your airtime 
provider.
The policy also says if theres no proof of ownership Assurant may decline the claim.
Ive seen the receipt for the phone that was sent from Mr A and Mrs Ks relative. It doesnt 
give the phones IMEI number. And no sim card was ever put in the phone so theres no 
evidence of usage from an airtime provider. 
Im satisfied that Assurant reasonably said Mr A and Mrs K hadnt provided sufficient proof of 
ownership. I know they are frustrated about that but Im satisfied Assurant can reasonably 
decline the claim.
Assurant also declined the claim because it was concerned about the different information 
Mrs K gave on where the phone was when stolen. Assurant acted fairly in asking her about 
the burglary details. There are circumstances where I might say certain discrepancies in a 
policyholders testimony shouldnt mean a claim is declined. But I dont have to make a 
decision about that issue in this case because Im already satisfied that Assurant fairly 
declined the claim due to insufficient proof of ownership.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman