DRN-3043010
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Pi Financial Limited (trading as Money Foundations) gave him 
unsuitable advice to transfer three pensions into a SIPP (Self Invested Personal Pension). 
He says the advice was given to facilitate investment into a high-risk investment - the Optima 
Worldwide Group (OWG) bond. 
What happened
Several firms will be mentioned in this decision. These are:
Legal Partnership (LP) - unregulated introducer
Pi Financial Ltd , trading as Money Foundations (Pi) - regulated financial adviser
Strand Capital Limited (Strand)  stockbroker
James Hay (JH) - SIPP provider
Mr M says he was approached by LP who suggested reviewing his pensions to ensure they 
were working as best as they could. He was told there were new options available to get his 
pensions to work harder. A bond was discussed, and he was told it was safe and could 
outperform his existing pensions. He says he never met anyone other than the LP 
representative who also filled in all the forms. 
Pi received a letter from Mr M on 18 November 2013. This said:
I would like to transfer my existing Pension Plans. into a new Self Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) Plan. Can you arrange for my current fundsto be transferred into a SIPP 
with a relevant SIPP provider. I do not wish for you to choose the Investment Funds but set 
up the SIPP Investment only, as I wish to choose my own investment choice which may 
involve direct investment in Shares.
Various documents were completed and signed on the same day, on 29 November 2013. 
This included 
a Client Agreement
a fact find which confirmed Mr Ms circumstances at the time
a Knowledge and experience assessment 
a SIPP application form
A recommendation letter was issued on 3 December 2013. It recommended Mr M transfer 
his pensions into a SIPP with JH.
Between mid December and mid January Mr Ms three existing pension plans, totalling 
about £49,000, were transferred to the JH SIPP.
A file note from pis adviser dated 24 January 2014 said:
[Mr M] is receiving investment advice from The Legal Partnership and asked me
for no investment advice concerning the funds to be held within the SIPP. The initial letter 
received from the client asking for my assistance states that he wished to make own 
investment choice but from further discussion it transpired that The Legal Partnership is 
assisting him with this.
Also in mid-January Mr M signed an application form to set up an execution-only investment 
account with Strand. A few days later on 14 January 2014 he signed a letter to Strand 
stating: I write to confirm that I wish to transfer an amount of £40,000 to Strand Capital now 
as per my previous Strand Capital Instruction Letter. Another letter dated 27 January asked 
to increase the amount to be transferred to £45,000. The following day JH wrote to Pi 
confirming that all documents had been completed and sent to Strand to establish an 
Executionary Account and that £45,000 would be transferred to Strand when the account 
was opened. Pi instructed JH by email on 3 February 2014 to make this payment for Mr M 
(the same email included instructions for other clients). JH then confirmed to Pi on 5 
February 2014 that the transfer of funds to Strand had been completed.
Representatives for Mr M raised a complaint to Pi in December 2017 regarding the 
unsuitable advice it said had been provided to him. Pi Financial didnt uphold the complaint 
and it was subsequently referred to us. 
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and recommended that it should be 
upheld. He didnt think the advice given to Mr M had been suitable. 
Pi disagreed that they should be held responsible for Mr Ms losses. In 2019, they also told 
this service that they understood distributions from the OWG fund would be made to 
customers which would impact on the loss amounts and so no further action should be taken 
on Mr Ms complaint until the level of distribution had been confirmed. In January 2020, they 
said they expected the distributions to happen shortly. 
The complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pis position in summary is that:
Mr M instructed Pi to recommend an appropriate SIPP provider. They only provided 
Mr M with a limited advice service on these specific instructions. Given the limited 
nature of the retainer the firm took reasonable steps to ensure that its 
recommendation was suitable in full compliance with COBS 9.2.1 and 9.2.2. Any 
liability could only be in regard to whether a SIPP was appropriate for Mr M.
Pi didnt provide Mr M with advice on the switch from his existing pension plans to a 
SIPP or on the underlying investment. Mr M had already decided what he wanted to 
do before he approached Pi. And paperwork likely would have made it clear the 
intended investments were high risk. They doubt additional information by Pi would 
have changed Mr Ms course of action. 
Mr M had told Pi he would be using a separate investment manager (Strand). Pi 
established that manager was an authorised and regulated firm and appropriately 
qualified. Pi also said on other complaints about advice given around the same time 
in early 2014 that they had done due diligence on the OWG bond.The investment strategy for the SIPP was the responsibility of Strand who was also a 
regulated party. Strand is responsible for Mr Ms losses and not Pi who only played a 
very limited role here. 
relevant considerations
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Pi. Of 
particular relevance to this complaint is: 
PRIN 2: A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly 
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment. 
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint are:
COBS 9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to 
designated investment.
COBS 9.2.1(1): A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
COBS 9.2.1 (2) says that when making a personal recommendation, a firm must obtain the 
necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.
COBS 9.2.2 provides:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid 
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
I am also mindful of the general legal position including: the law relating to causation, 
foreseeability and remoteness of losses.
My considerations here are:
Did Pi give Mr M investment advice including a personal recommendation?
If so, was the advice suitable? 
If the advice was unsuitable I need to consider whether:
Mr M would have relied on the advice or whether he would have acted the 
same way he did irrespective of Pis advice and 
If Mr M did rely on Pis advice, how fair compensation should be calculated in 
the specific circumstances of this case.
advising on investments
I have firstly considered whether, based on the facts of the complaint, Pi provided Mr M with 
regulated investment advice. 
Regulated activities specified for the purposes of section 22 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) were set out in the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and 
included:
Advising on investments
53.  Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his capacity 
as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a security 
or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
Part III of the RAO listed the kinds of investment which are specified for the purposes of 
section 22 of FSMA. This included:
Article 82, Rights under a pension scheme which at the time read.
(1) Rights under a stakeholder pension scheme. (2) Rights under a personal pension scheme.
As far as I can see Pi agrees that they recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
SIPP provider to Mr M. This is also clearly evidenced in the recommendation letter dated 3 
December 2013 which said amongst other things:
My advice is based on the details you provided at our meeting.
You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning and setting up a Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with no advice received on the Investment of the SIPP. 
I have acted accordingly.
Under Objectives it said You wished me to recommend an appropriate SIPP into which you 
can transfer your current pension policies. 
Pi went onto make a specific recommendation After doing my research on the most 
appropriate provider and plan to meet your needs I have recommended a James Hay 
SIPP.
Having undertaken appropriate research on your behalf I believe that James Hay 
Partnership will offer the most suitable contract given your stated objectives.
A copy of the research undertaken . accompanies this letter for your
consideration which outlines in greater detail the reasons for the recommendation of the 
chosen provider. [my emphasis]
I think its clear from the documents that Pi recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
provider which they said was suitable for Mr M. Im satisfied that recommending a suitable 
SIPP provider can be considered to be advising under Article 53 RAO. 
I am satisfied that Pi were giving regulated advice on investments and provided a personal 
recommendation to Mr M when they advised on the SIPP. Therefore the obligations in 
COBS 9 were engaged.
was PI entitled to rely on their limited retainer? 
Pi has said they provided a limited advice service in accordance with Mr Ms instructions. Mr 
M had specifically asked for them to recommend a SIPP product and he told them he didnt 
require investment advice. Pi says they didnt provide advice on the switch from Mr Ms 
personal pension to the SIPP or where it would be invested.
The issue to determine is whether Pi was entitled to restrict their advice to the 
recommendation of the SIPP product only. Having considered this carefully I dont think it 
was fair and reasonable for them to do so.
The purpose of Pis regulatory duties under FSMA (and COBS) is to provide consumer 
protection taking into account the differing risks involved in different kinds of investments, the 
differing degrees of experience and expertise consumers have and the needs consumers 
may have for the timely provision of information and advice that is accurate and fit for 
purpose (Section 1B FSMA). 
When recommending the SIPP, Pi needed to have a reasonable basis for believing that their 
recommendation would meet Mr Ms objectives and that he was able to bear any related 
investment risks. Mr M was intending to choose his own investments (later it was confirmed he would be advised on this by LP who was unregulated)  and Pi was aware that more 
specifically he intended to invest through Strand.
I consider the risks of Mr M transferring his existing pensions and the risks of his intended 
investment through the SIPP with these monies were related to the establishment of the 
SIPP itself. Applying COBS 9.2.2, Im satisfied Pi couldnt simply ignore the context of why 
Mr M wanted a recommendation for a SIPP and what Mr M was intending to do once the 
SIPP was established. I consider that in order to advise on the merits of setting up a specific 
SIPP product, Pi needed to have regard to Mr Ms wider circumstances including how his 
funds were currently invested and what the intended investment strategy would be. 
Assessing the suitability of a SIPP in isolation without considering the whole transaction is 
not reasonably possible.
The FSA published an alert in 2013 when they became concerned that regulated financial 
advisers were misinterpreting the rules. The alert focussed on unregulated investments 
which were introduced by unregulated introducers as these held particular risks for 
customers. The alert said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches [my emphasis] without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension..
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying
investments in unregulated schemes.
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in
the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If,
taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is
not suitable
And it specifically referred to cases where advisers were under the false impression they 
could advise on the suitability of a SIPP in the abstract. In 2014 the FSA issued a further 
alert in which they reiterated [emphasis added]:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the 
overall advice is not suitable. 
The initial alert outlined our view that where advice is given on a product (such as a SIPP) 
which is intended as a wrapper or vehicle for investment in other products, provision of 
suitable advice generally requires consideration of the overall transaction, that is, the vehicle or wrapper and the expected underlying investments (whether or not such investments 
are regulated products).
Despite the initial alert, some firms continue to operate a model where they purportedly 
restrict their advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. 
Pi says the alert was to provide guidance where there was an advice gap and the adviser 
was the only regulated party in the transaction. And this wasnt the case here. Pi says Strand 
was a regulated firm managing Mr Ms investments and it was their responsibility to invest in 
line with Mr Ms attitude to risk. However, Mr M opened an execution-only account with 
Strand and I cant see that they gave him advice or provided a discretionary service. 
In any event, I think applying a narrow reading of the alert to only specific circumstances is 
misguided. The essence of the alert, in my view, was to remind advisers that they couldnt 
just advise on a SIPP in isolation, but that to comply with their regulatory obligations they 
needed to consider the consumers wider circumstances and whether what they were 
intending to do was suitable and in their best interest.  I want to be clear that I consider Pis 
obligations in this regard stem from COBS 9 and the Principles. The alert just provides 
clarification and sets out expectations from the regulator and good industry practice. The 
requirements of COBS 9.2.2 dont fall away even if another regulated party is involved.
It follows that in order to give suitable advice on the SIPP Pi needed to consider Mr Ms 
wider circumstances and the suitability of the whole transaction, i.e. the switch from a 
personal pension to a SIPP, the suitability of a particular SIPP product and provider and the 
underlying investment strategy. 
I also point to COBS 2.1.2R which sets out clearly that a firm must not seek to exclude or 
restrict; or rely on any exclusion or restriction of any duty or liability it may have to the client 
under the regulatory system. So Pi couldnt limit their obligation in COBS 9 by taking 
instructions from Mr M to only consider the SIPP wrapper in isolation. 
Pi and Mr M were in an advisory relationship where Pi was the expert and they had a duty to 
meet their regulatory obligations. As explained above COBS 9 required Pi do consider the 
wider suitability of Mr Ms intended transactions when recommending a SIPP - whether he 
requested this or not. They failed to do this and therefore I consider they did not act fairly or 
reasonably when providing their advice to Mr M.
Pi Financial referred to the court case Denning v Greenhalgh Financial Services which it said 
considered the scope of duty of advisers. And the High Court decision - Adams v Carey 
Pension UK LLP, where it noted the court had considered the duty of a party performing a 
limited service and said the decision was relevant to Mr Ms case. 
 
With respect to the Adams v Carey Pension UK LLP High Court decision, that case was 
about an execution-only contract. The parties were a SIPP administrator and an investor. It 
was clear on the facts of the case that the SIPP administrator didnt act in an advisory role 
and it told the investor to seek independent advice elsewhere. The judge held that COBS 
2.1.1 would have to therefore be construed in light of the nature of the contractual 
relationship which was not advisory. I think the circumstances in this complaint are 
significantly different. Pi didnt act on an execution-only basis. They were giving advice on 
the SIPP, so the regulatory obligations of COBS 9 did apply. And as explained above part of 
the suitability assessment of the SIPP would have included the suitability of the pension 
switch and the underlying investment strategy.
I have also considered Denning v Greenhalgh, but it doesnt change my findings either. For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied that Pi gave regulated advice on the suitability 
of the particular SIPP. They had to comply with their regulatory obligations under COBS 9 
and, in that sense, I dont think Denning is of value to that determination.   
In summary, I consider that when advising Mr M on the suitability of the James Hay SIPP, Pi 
had to consider the suitability of the whole intended transaction including the pension switch 
and where Mr M intended to invest after the transfer.
did Pi provide suitable advice?
COBS 9 required Pi to take reasonable steps to provide Mr M with a suitable 
recommendation, so I considered whether they met this requirement.
Mr M was 51 and had no savings or investments. The knowledge & experience assessment 
confirmed that beyond his existing pensions he had no other investment experience, yet he 
was assessed as having a reasonable level of knowledge of investments.
JH confirmed to Pi that the Strand account was being set up and that funds had been 
transferred to it. Pi said they also did due diligence on the OWG investment. So Im satisfied 
Pi knew what Mr Ms intended investment was. And even if they didnt, they should have 
found out before they gave Mr M any advice. 
The OWG bond was invested in loan notes which are considered relatively high-risk and are 
not regulated. The bond prospectus (which Pi has provided to us) confirms this:
The Convertible Redeemable Loan Note is an unregulated investment and the protections 
normally afforded by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 do not apply. Investors 
will not be entitled to compensation under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
I think its evident from the documents Mr M completed that he didnt have the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks of this non-standard investment which 
included illiquidity risks, lack of diversification and potential loss of his retirement funds. He 
was also investing nearly his entire pension provisions and had no real other assets, so it 
should have been clear he didnt have any significant capacity for loss in this regard. 
The suitability report suggests Mr M felt a risk profile wasnt required. However, it didnt 
matter what Mr M might have considered necessary or not in this regard. Pi was required to 
meet their regulatory obligations and COBS 9 required Pi to obtain this information about Mr 
M before making their recommendation. They failed to do this.
I havent seen evidence that he had an attitude to risk exceeding medium at the most and 
given his circumstances he certainly didnt have the capacity to take any significant risk with 
his pension. 
Given Mr Ms lack of investment experience and modest funds, Im also not persuaded he 
was a credible self-investor or that a DFM in general with its additional costs was 
appropriate. So even if Mr M wanted to consolidate his pensions, I think a SIPP with DFM 
seemed unnecessary. Pi knew Mr M was being advised on his investments by an 
unregulated party. So they shouldve been alerted to the risk of Mr M receiving unsuitable 
investment advice and should have queried his objectives and what he understood about his 
intended transaction.
Based on the information I have, Im satisfied the transfer to the SIPP and investment into 
OWG was unsuitable for Mr M. And Pi knew - or ought to have known - that the intended 
investment into OWG was too high risk and unsuitable for an inexperienced investor in Mr Ms circumstances. Despite this, they recommended a SIPP and arranged the paperwork to 
facilitate this investment.
In summary, I think Pi should not have recommended a SIPP to Mr M. They should have 
explained that his intended investments were too high risk and that given his limited assets, 
he couldnt financially bear the risks with his retirement funds. 
In my view Pi were in breach of the Principles and COBS when they recommended the SIPP 
and helped him arrange the paperwork for investments which were clearly not suitable for 
him. They didnt pay due regard to Mr Ms interests and did not take reasonable steps to 
ensure that their personal recommendation was suitable for Mr M as per their regulatory 
obligations. Therefore I do not consider that Pis actions in their dealings with Mr M were fair 
or reasonable in the circumstances. 
would Mr M have transferred his pension to a SIPP and invested in OWG anyway?
I considered whether Mr M would have proceeded with the transaction regardless of what Pi 
told him. The OWG brochure detailed some of the risks of the investment and if I assume 
that Mr M was given this brochure - which is something I dont know - he might have been 
informed that this was unregulated and high risk. I also considered that LP might have 
influenced Mr M in the background and could have persuaded him to proceed. Mr M says he 
was told the investment in the bond was safe.
However, on balance, I think explicit advice from Pi acting as a professional firm 
recommending him not to proceed would have carried significantly more weight than any 
general wording in application forms or brochures warning the investment was high risk. Mr 
M had no real investment experience so Im not convinced he would have been able to 
properly understand the risks he was taking with his entire pension here. 
The consequences of the loss of the pension were of great significance to Mr Ms overall 
financial position. He didnt have the capacity to bear significant losses to his pension, which 
was a real possibility with the investment in the OWG bond. So I think on balance if Pi, as a 
regulated adviser and independent third party, had clearly explained they couldnt 
recommend the SIPP as the intended investments were not suitable for his circumstances, 
the transaction wasnt in his best interest and he couldnt afford to risk his pension in this 
way, I think he would have decided not to proceed.
Given that Pi should have been aware that there was risk Mr M was being influenced by LP 
and potentially not given full and clear information about what he was about to do, they 
should have established what he had been told and correct any potential misconceptions.
If LP had tried to persuade him to transfer anyway, Mr M would have faced a choice 
between taking the advice of the unregulated introducer or the authorised firm. Im not 
persuaded the evidence suggests Mr M was so strongly motivated to make the transaction 
that he would have decided to press ahead with it against professional expert advice. 
For the reasons I have given above, Im satisfied that Mr M would have more likely than
not followed Pis advice if they had explained the position in full and recommended
against the SIPP and investment with OWG as it was unsuitable for him. I think, on balance, 
Mr M would have remained in his existing pension arrangements.
reliance on another regulated party: COBS 2.4.4Pi also said COBS 2.4.4 should be considered. They say they were entitled to rely on Strand 
providing a suitable recommendation for Mr M. I disagree because the account Mr M had 
with Strand was execution-only. So they werent intending to give Mr M any advice.
fair compensation
I have found that Pi gave Mr M unsuitable advice and if it wasnt for their advice, Mr M more 
likely than not would have remained in his existing pensions. Having considered all the 
evidence and arguments, I consider it fair that Pi compensates Mr M for any losses he 
suffered by transferring into the SIPP and investing into OWG.
Pi says it cant be required to pay compensation which is outside of its legal scope of 
responsibility and which is too remote to be recoverable as a matter of law. It referred to 
SAAMCO v York Montague Ltd [1997] and BPE Solicitors v Hughes-Holland [2018]. 
Pis scope of duty was to take reasonable steps to give a suitable recommendation. This 
included understanding Mr Ms knowledge and experience, objectives and financial situation. 
Part of this duty was the consideration of the pension switch and the underlying investment 
in the SIPP as explained above. 
Pi breached their regulatory duties when they recommended a SIPP although the intended 
investment was evidently unsuitable for Mr M.  For the reasons I have given earlier in the 
decision, I think Mr M wouldnt have been in the SIPP or OWG bond investment at all if Pi 
had met its obligations under COBS and PRIN. And consequently he wouldnt have suffered 
the investment losses he did. I therefore consider the losses Mr M suffered from the high-risk 
investment are related to Pis unsuitable advice.
Its unclear when and if OWG will distribute any funds to customers. So in the circumstances 
I think its fair for Pi to compensate Mr M now. Ive included ways to ensure Mr M is not 
overcompensated in the redress below. 
putting things right
In awarding fair compensation for Mr Ms losses my aim is to put him as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice by Pi.
I think Mr M would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done. He might have remained in his existing plans or consolidated them in a new 
plan. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ms 
circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
To compensate Mr M fairly, Pi must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ms investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the fair 
value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Pi should add interest as set out below.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. If Mr M hasnt yet taken any tax-free 
cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement presumed to be 20%. So making a 
notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, Pi Financial Ltd should pay Mr M £300 for the distress suffered when he realised 
he had lost significant parts of his pension provisions.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi Financial considers its required by
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr M how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
JH SIPPexists, but 
illiquidFTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Indexdate of 
transferdate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
my final decision 
to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 28 
days of the 
business being 
notified of Mr Ms 
acceptance)
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
I understand Mr Ms OWG investment is illiquid, meaning it cant be readily sold on the open 
market. This means it can be complicated to establish the actual value. So, the actual value 
should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Pi should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above. 
If Pi is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil for
the purpose of calculation. Pi Financial may require that Mr M provides an undertaking to 
pay Pi any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan. Pi will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. 
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. 
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Pi taking over the investment, or this is 
something that Mr M can discuss with JH directly. But I dont know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Pi pay Mr M an upfront lump sum equivalent to five 
years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should provide a 
reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr M paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the 
end instead of deducting periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted capital growth and was still about 15 years away from his expected 
retirement age. Information from his ceding schemes suggest a balanced profile. I 
think assuming a medium risk attitude to risk in the circumstances seems 
reasonable.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude. 
Details of the calculations should be provided to Mr M in a clear and simple format.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay Mr M compensation as set out 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman