DRN-2977135
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc rejected her claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mrs B bought solar panels for her home in 2013, when Mrs B was 69 years old. The 
purchase was funded by a loan from Hitachi that was repayable over eight years. Hitachi is 
therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In 
this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs B into believing that the panels would 
be pay for themselves within a few years (the adjudicator described this as being self-
funding), which they were very unlikely to do.
Mrs Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs B as being self-funding, and that fair redress 
would be for the loan to be restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit 
they would provide over the term of the loan. This restructure should be based on evidence 
of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. 
Hitachi disagreed, suggesting that Mrs B hadnt argued that the solar panels were 
misrepresented as self-funding. Our adjudicator explained why they had phrased the 
complaint in this way. But Hitachi did not agree, and the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hitachi is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs B was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
Although Mrs B didnt use the phrase self-funding in her complaint, she described the 
following:
the representative explained the benefits of the system and advised that Mrs B would 
benefit from savings on her electricity bills and payments from the feed in tariff (FIT). The 
total benefits receivable would cover the overall costs associated with the system within a 
few years of installation.
I think it is highly likely that Mrs B was told this  given it matches what was shown in the 
sales literature she was given. And, noting that the loan was repayable over an eight-year 
term, I think that provides context for what was meant by a few years. In this context, I 
would expect a few years to be less than the eight years of the loan term. So, to pay for itself 
within the loan term, the benefits of the system (in energy savings and FIT payments) 
wouldve had to at least match the monthly loan repayments during that time. In other words, 
the system would be self-funding. But the benefits of the system did not do this (and were 
never likely to).
So, I think that Hitachi didnt treat Mrs B fairly and she lost out because of what Hitachi did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Bs complaint for Hitachi to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs B from the solar panels 
over an eight-year period so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs B is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Hitachi needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs B by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Hitachi to 
restructure Mrs Bs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs B in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over an eight-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs B have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mrs B and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mrs B and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.If Mrs B accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Mrs B has settled the loan, Hitachi should pay her the difference between what she paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mrs B has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Hitachi and Hitachi should: 
1. Refund the extra Mrs B paid each month with the Hitachi loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs B receives her refund.
3. Refund the extra Mrs B paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs B receives her refund.
5. Pay Mrs B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs B first 
contacted Hitachi that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Hitachi should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman