DRN-3412025
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the customer service she received from Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited. 
What happened
Miss C had an account with Very, a trading name of Shop Direct. In her complaint to this 
service she said Shop Directs customer service was appalling and she complained that 
they hadnt fully investigated her complaint.
Our investigator wrote to Miss C and invited her to confirm that her complaint was about 
Shop Directs customer service and that they hadnt looked into her complaint properly. She 
also set out what she believed to be the full grounds of Miss Cs complaint to Shop Direct: 
the balance of her account, their returns process, delays in delivery, and the increase in her 
credit limit.
Because Miss C didnt respond, our investigator considered the complaint based on the 
limited information she submitted on her complaint to this service, and the information 
provided by Shop Direct.
Shop Direct said they had investigated Miss Cs complaint and upheld it.
They said Miss C had ordered a vacuum cleaner through her account in March 2021. In 
September 2021 she complained that it was faulty. Shop Direct agreed that Miss C could 
order another model until her model was back in stock. They said Miss C did this, and 
because the price took her over her £600 credit limit, and because shed opted for automatic 
credit limit increases, they increased her credit limit to £800. They said they later gave her 
the option to reduce that limit back to £600.
Shop Direct said theyd inspected the original vacuum cleaner and couldnt find a fault. They 
said they arranged for Miss C to return both vacuum cleaners because Miss C wasnt happy 
with their decision. They said Miss Cs account wasnt credited as it shouldve been. They 
said theyd now corrected the payments on all accounts, refunded administration charges 
theyd applied, and refunded all interest.
They said Miss C also complained that the returned vacuum cleaner had been left with a 
neighbour. They apologised, and said the courier company had dealt with this aspect of her 
complaint.
They said Miss C had complained that shed ordered a set of hair tongs, and a candle scent, 
but hadnt received these. They said theyd credited her account with the value of the 
missing items. They also placed a replacement order. They said Miss C had received these 
items, without charge.
They said Miss C complained in November 2021 about a dishwasher shed ordered. They 
said this became out of stock and the order was cancelled.
They said theyd credited Miss Cs account with a total of £270 in recognition of the distress 
their poor service had caused her.
Miss C was unhappy, so she brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for 
investigation.
Our investigator didnt think Shop Direct needed to take any further action. She reviewed 
each of Miss Cs complaint points and felt that Shop Direct had acted fairly and paid 
appropriate amounts of compensation. 
Miss C disagreed. She said the opinion was wrong and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Our investigator invited Miss C to explain what elements of the opinion she felt were wrong, 
but Miss C didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss C entered into a regulated consumer 
credit agreement with Shop Direct which means were able to look into complaints about it.
The vacuum cleaners
Miss C bought the vacuum cleaner from Shop Direct using a consumer credit agreement. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies here. 
This means Miss C has a like claim against Shop Direct as she does against the supplier for 
a misrepresentation or breach of contract. Miss C complained about the quality of the goods. 
Goods that arent of a satisfactory quality can amount to a breach of contract.
Miss C had use of the vacuum cleaner for six months when she said it was faulty. In 
circumstances like these, Id expect Shop Direct to inspect the goods to see if they were 
faulty. And if they were found to be faulty, Id expect them to either repair the goods, replace 
them, or allow Miss C to reject them and refund the cost of the goods.
They said they couldnt find faults with the goods. Because Miss C said the goods were 
returned with damage that was present when she returned it, they allowed her to reject the 
goods. I think that was a fair and reasonable approach to take. 
I note that there were times when Miss C was being charged for the original cleaner, and the 
replacements. I can see that Shop Direct have corrected this and awarded £50 as a gesture 
of goodwill. So I wont be asking them to take any further action.
Goods not delivered
Its upsetting and frustrating for customers when they dont receive their goods on time, or at 
all. So I can understand why Miss C might have complained when she didnt receive the 
tongs, the candle scent, or the dishwasher.Shop Directs terms and conditions make clear they will make every effort to deliver goods 
on the specified day, but they cannot guarantee delivery. They also say that all items are 
subject to stock availability. I understand this is because they are relying on third party 
suppliers and couriers.
That doesnt mean they have no liability when things go wrong. But when they do, Id expect 
them to do what they can to put things right. In this case they cancelled the orders, and 
credited Miss Cs account with the amounts charged. Whilst this would have been frustrating 
for Miss C, I cant see that shes lost out as shes not explained whats went wrong, or 
provided evidence that she didnt receive the payments.
Credit limit
Creditors like Shop Direct have to ensure that any credit increase is affordable for their 
customers. They have to comply with rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority. In this 
instance, I can see that Shop Direct increased the limit to prevent Miss C going over limit, 
and potentially facing further charges. I think this was reasonable. Im also satisfied it was 
within the terms of the account. And I can see no reason why the increase wasnt affordable 
 it was a relatively low amount, and Miss C wasnt in arrears on the account. 
But Miss C was unhappy  so its reasonable that theyve provided Miss C with instructions 
explaining how she can reduce her limit if she wishes to do so.
Shop Direct has compensated Miss C for things that didnt go as well as they would have 
expected. I think the amounts they have paid are fair and reasonable. So I wont be asking 
Shop Direct to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman