DRN-4217233
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) handled his boiler 
breakdown and annual service appointment.
What happened
Mr P had boiler, controls and central heating cover with BG. The policy included an annual 
boiler service.
Mr Ps boiler developed a fault, so he made an appointment for a BG engineer to attend. The 
first available appointment was a few days away. Mr P accepted the appointment but, 
because of previous problems hed encountered with BG, he also arranged for a private 
engineer to visit sooner.
Mr P said he asked the engineer to do the minimum required to make the boiler operational 
and safe, and to let him know what outstanding work it required.
On the day of his BG appointment, the engineer called first to confirm the appointment. Mr P 
told the engineer that hed had his boiler repaired although there was outstanding work, and 
he wanted the annual service done. Mr P reports that the engineer was unhappy about going 
ahead with the appointment because it was no longer an emergency.
On arrival, Mr P said the engineer was clearly unhappy about being there. He reports that he 
felt uneasy, so he asked the engineer to leave. Mr P quoted the engineer as saying he 
wasn't going to do anything with the boiler anyway.
Mr P complained to BG. He said the engineers attitude was unacceptable and he still had a 
faulty boiler.
BG responded to say it would deal with the engineers performance internally, and it offered 
to arrange a senior engineer to attend to Mr Ps boiler. BG also offered to reimburse 
evidenced engineer costs and sent payment of £100 by way of apology.
Mr P didnt think the compensation was enough given the distress and inconvenience hed 
been caused and the worry hed suffered about the safety of his boiler. He didnt want a 
senior engineer to attend until his concerns were addressed, but he sent evidence of his 
engineer costs. 
Mr P said he heard nothing further from BG about resolving his complaint until bringing the 
matter to our service.
Our investigator explained that she would only be considering the complaint about the 
unsatisfactory appointment and the way BG had tried to resolve it. She said that although 
BG hadnt handled things well, it had done enough to put matters right. Therefore, our 
investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P wasn't satisfied with our investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I understand hell be 
disappointed, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
There are aspects of Mr Ps complaint which fall outside my remit, and Ive explained this to 
him separately. Also, I mentioned above that Mr P has been dissatisfied with BGs service in 
the past which led him to take the action he did before BG attended the first appointment. 
This matter was raised as a separate complaint with our service, although I understand Mr P 
recently withdrew it. For clarity, I wont be addressing that here.
My role is to look at the way BG handled Mr Ps claim under his policy and to decide whether 
it treated him fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
The facts arent in dispute, so I accept that BG didnt handle Mr Ps claim as well as he 
couldve expected. So, Ive looked at what BG did to put matters right.
BG said it would deal with the complaint about the engineers attitude directly with his 
manager. I think thats reasonable. I wouldnt expect BG to divulge anything more about this 
to Mr P because it would be a personal matter for the engineer. 
However, I think its right that BG recognised the service failing and sent a cheque for £100 
to Mr P by way of apology.
Although Mr P said £100 doesnt adequately address the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced, I must keep in mind that the compensation is only in recognition of that one 
appointment. I have also taken into consideration that Mr P had his boiler repaired to a 
working standard before the engineer arrived. At that time of year, BG prioritised 
emergencies, so I can see why BG might not have wanted to complete an annual service 
during what was expected to be an emergency appointment. 
Mr P said hed worried constantly about how unsafe his boiler was. While I dont wish to 
downplay the importance of his feelings about this, I must take into consideration the fact 
that he said his own engineer attended to make it safe, and BG offered to reimburse any 
costs covered under the policy. Based on this evidence, I cant reasonably conclude that BG 
was wholly responsible for Mr Ps concerns about the safety of his boiler.
Ive also considered that BG offered to send a senior engineer to service the boiler, but Mr P 
was reluctant to accept the offer while his complaint was ongoing. I think BGs offer was 
reasonable and I cant hold it responsible for Mr Ps decision to wait before accepting. 
Finally, Mr P said BG lost his engineers invoices, so it hasnt reimbursed the cost. BG said it 
hasnt received them. I can understand why Mr P doubts BGs comment, but if, as he says, 
BG has lost them, it would still need a copy before it can determine what payment is due to 
Mr P. BG asked for the evidence and until Mr P provides it again, I cant expect it to do any 
more.
Overall, I understand Mr P is unhappy that his complaint is not upheld, especially as Ive 
agreed that BG didnt handle his claim as well as he couldve expected. It simply means that 
I think BG has done enough to put matters right. Therefore, I wont be asking BG to do any 
more, which is on the understanding that it completes, or has completed, the actions it 
promised in response to Mr Ps complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman