DRN-1840618
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 2001 with a 
store card. Were now looking at this complaint against AXA France IARD (AXA). This is 
because Santander has transferred responsibility for PPI complaints like this to AXA. Aside 
from which company were looking at this against, nothing else has changed. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So to keep 
things simple in my decision Ill just say AXA when Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA. 
Mrs B says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its likely AXA made it clear Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it  although I can understand why she cant remember this over 18 years later. I say 
this because AXA has provided a copy of the credit agreement for the store card. To get the 
PPI, Mrs B had to sign her name in a box for it. If Mrs B hadnt wanted the cover she could 
have left this section blank, as she chose to do for other sections of the form. The box is 
signed for the PPI. 
Whilst Ive noted that the form includes some language that encourages Mrs B to take the 
cover, Ive also noted that theres no language on any documentary evidence that suggests 
the credit is dependent on taking out PPI. And the section Mrs B had to sign to get the PPI 
explains she should only do so if she wants the cover. So, it seems most likely that Mrs B 
chose to take the cover, and would have been given a choice about doing so. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure she got the information she needed, so she could decide if it was 
right for her.
The information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But based on what Ive seen of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time it seems that she 
was eligible for the cover this policy could provide and it doesnt look like she was affected 
by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover  so it would have been useful for her 
if something went wrong. 
And it appears that Mrs B would have benefited from the cover. I say this because Mrs B told 
us that whilst her sick pay was good initially, it dropped significantly after six months. And Mrs B told us she had no other means she could have relied on it that circumstance, or if she 
lost her job. So, I think the PPI could be useful for her.
So having considered everything, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mrs B off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman