DRN-3235674
The complaint
Mr A complains that Steadypay Limited has treated him unfairly when hes been unable to 
meet his agreed repayments.
What happened
Mr A opened an account with Steadypay in June 2020 and it provided him with three top-up 
loans between June and August 2020. In total Mr A borrowed £584. The first agreed 
repayment amount was for £85 and was made on 20 August. From September 2020 Mr A 
was required to pay £170 per month. He failed to make this payment and missed it in 
October and November.
On 15 December 2020, Steadypay issued a default notice and in January it said legal action 
may commence if Mr A failed to make contact or meet the repayments due on the account. 
Mr A complained that Steadypay had made a number of mistakes when dealing with his 
account. He didnt think it had followed the correct steps when sending him notice that legal 
action may commence. He also felt it had breached the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCAs) rules on how to support consumers who are facing financial difficulty and that it 
refused to accept the repayment offer he made. He said the amount offered was in line with 
his affordability and he couldnt increase this.
Steadypay issued a final response  and said the letter sent in January wasnt a letter before 
action (LBA) but was sent to establish contact and make it clear that legal action might be 
taken if this wasnt successful. It didnt agree it had breached the FCA rules. It said Mr A had 
failed to engage with it to confirm his income and expenditure after uncoupling his bank 
account with its system  so it was unable to look at this directly. Without this information it 
couldnt agree to his offer of £20 a month and confirm if this was or wasnt affordable. It had 
previously agreed to reduce the repayment amount from £170 a month to £100  based on 
the information it could see from the statements before. But it couldnt agree to a lower 
amount without further evidence. 
It also felt it was acting fairly by only looking to recover the amount borrowed without the 
addition of interest and charges and it explained it hadnt yet, reported the default to credit 
reference agencies. 
Steadypay gave Mr A three options to make repayments to his account:
1. To pay £100 a month with no subscription fees. If accepted it would not apply the 
default marker to Mr As account or any other negative markers.
2. To pay £45 a month with the subscription up to date  this was to show goodwill on 
Mr As part and it would allow it to extend the recovery time. This would mean it 
wouldnt look to add any negative information to Mr As credit file either if accepted.
3. To pay £20 a month. If accepted it would apply the default as per the default notice 
but would agree to not pursue the County Court Judgement (CCJ).
Mr A accepted option three and asked that all communication from Steadypay now be made 
via letter only. He asked that it stopped communicating via email or phone/text message. 
Steadypay explained, as an online company its communication would need to continue to be 
sent via email. Mr A felt this was a breach of the (General Data Protection Regulations) 
GDPR  and asked for the details of the data controller at Steadypay. He also said a 
complaint about this would be referred to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Steadypay didnt set the direct debit up correctly for the monthly payment and wrote to Mr A 
in February to explain it would be issuing a LBA as no payment or attempt at the payment 
had been made. Mr A clarified hed set this up and it was for Steadypay to make the request 
for payment over him sending it. This was set up and £20 was collected on 26 February, 23 
March and 22 April 2021.   
Mr A brought his complaint to this Service in April 2021. Our investigator looked at the 
complaint and said that he didnt think Steadypay had acted unfairly or in breach of the 
FCAs rules when attempting to recover the money owed from Mr A. 
Mr A disagreed and asked that the complaint be referred for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing to Mr A, but Ill explain how Ive reached this decision.
Mr As complaint focuses on the actions of Steadypay and whether it has acted fairly and in 
line with relevant regulations in place set by the FCA. Specifically, that the Consumer Credit 
Source Book (CONC) rules havent been followed. He feels undue pressure has been 
applied by Steadypay when its sought payment for the outstanding debt and its sent emails 
which could be constituted as a LBA without providing the relevant information and content.  
I think its also clear that Mr A hasnt been satisfied with the service hes received when hes 
attempted to work with Steadypay and organise repayments. 
I understand why Mr A is concerned that Steadypay might have been issuing a LBA without 
following the correct steps or including the correct information. But I think with the lack of 
communication from him in relation to his missed payments ahead of the email on the 5 
January 2021, I can see why Steadypay felt it needed to flag that court action was an option. 
Its said this wasnt intended as a LBA but as a warning of the potential of this and with it not 
containing a number of things required under pre action protocol, I think it was more likely 
than not, only issued as a warning, with the hope of gaining engagement on the account and 
the debt. 
This resulted in engagement on the debt and there was a number of email exchanges by 
Mr A and Steadypay. Mr A raised a number of issues as the emails progressed, including 
questioning whether it was fair for email communication to continue. 
The terms and conditions for the account confirm that Mr A agreed to accept electronic 
communication via the app or email and I dont think Steadypay acted unfairly when it said it 
would need to continue to communicate in this way with him. If Mr A feels there has been a 
breach of GDPR this would need to be raised with the ICO, but as I say, I think its acted 
fairly when continuing to communicate inline with the terms and conditions of the account. CONC section 7 sets out the expectation on lenders and what they need to provide 
consumers who are in default or arrears. In simple terms it explains that they should 
consider them with forbearance and due consideration. Examples of what might be expected 
to demonstrate this are provided. This includes things like, reducing or waiving interest, 
accepting token payments for a reasonable period and deferring the immediate repayment of 
arrears. Mr A has also highlighted a number of sections of section 7 that he feels Steadypay 
was in breach of, including:
CONC 7.3.10 A firm must not pressure a customer,
(1) To pay a debt in one single or very few repayments or in unreasonably large 
amounts, when to do so would have an adverse impact on the customers financial 
circumstances
(2) To pay a debt within an unreasonably short period of time
Mr A missed payments to his account in line with the agreed amount for three months and in 
December 2020 a default notice was issued. In January, following the email sent which said 
a CCJ would be registered unless action was taken. Mr A made contact with Steadypay to 
explain that he was in financial difficulties. 
This email said that Steadypay intended to register a CCJ to recover the outstanding 
balance of £499. But it also said the following:
Its not to late to avoid this! Please get in touch ASAP so that I can help you
Mr A, in his response, explained he was experiencing financial difficulty and made an offer to 
pay £20 per month in place of the previous agreed repayment amount of £170 per month. 
Initially this wasnt accepted as Steadypay hadnt been able to review Mr As income and 
expenditure and Mr A had removed his account information from the platform, meaning this 
couldnt be accessed. It was explained this was needed to be able to understand his 
financial circumstances and how these had changed. Without anything to support Mr As 
claims of financial hardship, I dont think its fair to say the proposed repayments offered 
where unreasonable or unfair.
But in the final response issued on 14 January 2021, Steadypay provided three options to 
Mr A for his repayments, set out in the background of this decision. These demonstrate that 
Steadypay was, despite not having received at this point an income and expenditure 
assessment, willing to work with Mr A with forbearance and due consideration. And it 
provided an option which matched the amount Mr A had said he was willing to pay. It also 
recognised that impact of negative information being reported on Mr As credit file and 
offered to avoid this with the options put forward. 
Its continued to provide Mr A with a reduced repayment plan since this point and been in 
contact with him regularly to assess his income and expenditure and put forward new 
repayment options. It has also, waived the subscription fee for its service for most of the time 
the repayment plan has been in place, reducing the total amount Mr A needs to pay.
So overall, I think the steps taken by Steadypay show it has acted with forbearance and due 
consideration to Mr A and his circumstances and I dont agree it acted unfairly or in breach 
of the CONC rules.
As I said, I think its also clear that Mr A is unhappy with the service hes received overall. 
Having reviewed the communication I do think there was occasions when Steadypay could 
have been better. It failed to claim the direct debit when first set up which resulted in this being asked for again and confusion being caused. But I think for the most part, it has 
continued to look to provide Mr A with options to help him to repay his outstanding balance. 
And I think it has treated him fairly when responding to his communication in line with the 
accounts terms and conditions. So I dont think it needs to anything else in relation to the 
service offered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint against Steadypay 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman