DRN-4441050
The complaint
Mrs W complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her 
home insurance claim, including the settlement amount offered.
Mrs W is named as the policyholder for the insurance. She is represented in this complaint 
by her husband, Mr W. 
AA is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the actions 
of its agents. As AA has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in my 
decision, any reference to AA includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr and Mrs Ws property was damaged while their neighbour was having an 
extension built. Mr W notified AA of the damage. He said the neighbour had arranged for a 
structural engineer to assess the damage and he would update AA if they needed to claim 
on the policy.
Mr W arranged for an independent surveyor to carry out a condition survey and obtain 
tenders for repairing the damage. 
In October 2022, Mr W told AA he and Mrs W wanted to claim under the policy. AA arranged 
for a surveyor to visit the property and compile a report. It told Mr W it would consider the 
claim under the accidental damage section of the policy. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied that AAs surveyor had considered the full extent of the damage. AA 
arranged for another surveyor to attend the property and create a scope of works. Following 
this, AA made a cash settlement offer based on the cost it said it would incur if it used its 
own suppliers.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with the amount AA offered, which was much lower than theyd 
been quoted for repairs. They also raised concerns about delay in progressing the claim and 
the service theyd received from their claims handler.
In response to their complaint, AA said it wasnt able to uphold the element relating to the 
settlement. However, it had identified a delay in the first surveyor presenting their report to 
AA as well as occasions when the case handler hadnt responded to Mr Ws requests for 
updates. It paid them £150 to compensate them for the poor service theyd received.
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy and asked our service to consider their concerns. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt satisfied AAs scope of 
works was sufficient to put right everything that should be covered by the claim. However, 
she didnt think repairs to the roof, or the replacement of windows and doors were covered. 
She also wasnt persuaded that alternative accommodation was necessary while repairs 
were being carried out.
Our investigator recommended AA expand its scope to cover all the work that had been set 
out in Mr and Mrs Ws quotes excluding repairs to the roof, replacement of windows and 
doors and removal services and alternative accommodation. She said that if AA was 
unwilling to carry out the work, it should cash settle it in line with the lower of Mrs Ws quotes 
after it had been updated based on this years prices.
AA accepted our investigators findings and said it would like to organise its own contractors.
Mr and Mrs W also agreed with our investigators findings regarding the scope of works. 
However, they were concerned about AAs contractors carrying out the repairs as it had 
previously been unable to give a timescale for the work to be carried out. 
AA said it couldnt give a timescale. It expected the work to take around four to six weeks 
and the lead time might be a further six weeks. It said it would need to attend, review and 
then agree the schedule of works and order materials and at that point it would know. It said 
it would need to either resurvey or have its contractors attend to provide an updated scope 
of works, even if it was to agree a cash settlement.
Mr and Mrs W agreed for AA to go ahead and settle the claim in line with our investigators 
recommendation. Our investigator advised AA of this. However, four weeks later Mr W said 
hed heard nothing further from AA and asked for the complaint to be moved to an 
ombudsman for a decision. 
A few days later, AA contacted Mr W and told him it had appointed a contractor who would 
be in contact to arrange an appointment to visit, inspect and survey the internal and external 
damage. It said it would provide the schedule of works for Mr Ws agreement and then 
arrange for the repairs to be completed.
Mr W declined the attendance of AAs contractors and said he wanted the case to be 
considered by an ombudsman. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Mr W has questioned why AA considered the claim under the accidental damage section of 
the policy. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs W decided to claim under their home insurance policy after 
attempting to pursue third parties for the costs of repairing damage to their property. 
To be able to claim under a policy, a policyholder needs to show that the damage or loss 
was caused by an insured peril. The policys terms and conditions list a number of perils that 
loss or damage to Mr and Mrs Ws building was insured against. One of these is accidental 
damage, which is defined in the policy as unexpected and unintended damage caused by 
sudden and external means.
I understand the damage to Mr and Mrs Ws property was caused by piling work taking place 
due to the construction of their neighbours extension. Having reviewed the policys terms 
and conditions accidental damage appears to be the only peril that the damage could be 
considered to be caused by. So, I think its reasonable for AA to consider the claim under 
this section of the policy.Both parties agree with our investigators findings regarding the extent of the damage 
covered by the claim. And I agree with the conclusions our investigator reached regarding 
alternative accommodation and storage. So, I havent considered these matters any further.
However, Mr W doesnt think its necessary for AA to reattend the property as it has already 
visited twice before. He feels that the report hes supplied from his own surveyor should be 
sufficient.
Mr W is concerned that AA wasnt able to give him a timeframe for the work to commence. 
Hes also unhappy that AA delayed contacting him after our investigator had informed it of 
Mrs Ws acceptance of her findings regarding this complaint. He says AAs handling of the 
claim has had a negative impact on his mental health. So, he wanted his case to be moved 
to an ombudsman.
I thought it would be helpful to provide some clarity about the Financial Ombudsman 
Services role and the scope of the complaint that Im deciding. Our role is to resolve 
disputes between complainants and financial businesses, to help both parties move on. It 
isnt our role to handle a claim or to deal with matters as they arise.
I appreciate Mr W is frustrated that AA wants its contractor to carry out another survey 
before arranging the repairs. However, Im not persuaded that this is unnecessary or 
unreasonable. AAs previous scope of works didnt include damage that AA now agrees 
should be covered. The survey Mr W arranged himself was carried out in May 2022 and 
AAs surveys took place in early 2023. So, I think its understandable that AA would want to 
review the current condition of the property before commencing work or calculating a revised 
cash settlement offer.
I understand that Mr and Mrs W would like some certainty about when the work would be 
carried out by AAs contractors. But AA has said it is unable to give a precise timeframe until 
the schedule of works has been agreed and the materials have been ordered. I dont think 
this is unreasonable. 
AA says the delay in contacting Mr W after our investigator informed it of Mrs Ws 
acceptance of her outcome was due to some internal miscommunication. I appreciate it was 
frustrating for Mr and Mrs W that AA didnt contact them sooner and it also missed a 
deadline set by our investigator. However, I can see that AA contacted Mr W just over a 
month after the investigator notified it of their acceptance, informing him that it had appointed 
its contractor. The contractor appears to have contacted Mr W shortly after this, but Mr W 
declined their attendance. 
The policys terms and conditions set out how AA will settle a claim as follows:
At our option we will:
repair or rebuild the damaged part using our suppliers; or
make a cash payment if you wish to use your own supplier.
If we make a cash payment, we will only pay you what it would have cost us using our 
suppliers and therefore the amount you receive may be lower than the cost charged by your 
suppliers
AA says it would like its own contractors to carry out the work. It says it would be willing to 
provide a cash settlement if Mr and Mrs W would prefer to use their own suppliers. However, 
a cash settlement would be based on the costs to AA of completing the work using its 
suppliers. It says an increased settlement would need to be agreed following an updated costs to AA, so AA would need to either resurvey or have their contractors attend to provide 
the updated scope of works. AA has agreed to expand its scope of works as our investigator 
has recommended and settle it in line with policys terms and conditions. I think this is 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs W have also raised concerns about AAs communication with them and delays in 
progressing their claim. I understand that this has been a stressful situation for Mr and     
Mrs W. But AA needed to review the damage and establish if there was cover under the 
policy and this took some time. AA has acknowledged a delay in the first surveyor providing 
the report and several instances where the claims handler didnt respond to Mr W in a timely 
manner and has paid them £150. I think this fairly recognises the impact these customer 
service issues had on them.
Putting things right
AA should deal with the claim, expanding its scope to cover all the work that has been set 
out in Mr and Mrs Ws quotes, except for the following:
Repairs to the roof
Replacement of windows and doors.
Removal services and alternative accommodation.
AA should settle the claim in line with the policys terms and conditions by either repairing 
the damage using its own suppliers or making a cash payment. If Mr and Mrs W choose a 
cash settlement, AA may limit this to what it would have cost it to use its suppliers. 
If AA is unwilling or unable to carry out the work itself, it should base the cash settlement on 
Mr and Mrs Ws reasonable costs of using their own suppliers, using the updated quotes 
provided.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and direct AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman