DRN-3273324
The complaint
Ms H complains that J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly gave 
her three running account credit facilities that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In February, March and July 2018 Ms H applied for a credit account with J D Williams. 
The initial credit limits were £125 on each account and they increased and decreased 
over time. 
In 2021, Ms H complained to J D Williams to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that J D Williams ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before increasing her credit limits.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Ms H didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
J D Williams will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases of credit 
and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the specifics into question, so, I 
dont intend to cover them off here. 
Ms Hs complaint is that J D Williams made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Ms H has not been able to provide 
any bank statements from the times in question. J D Williams has explained that it carried 
out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to 
offer. Its possible that J D Williams failed to make adequate checks before providing Ms H 
with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused J D 
Williams to think the initial credit limits or the credit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limits were modest and the maximum monthly 
payments for that credit were also relatively modest. There were missed payments early 
on in the life of one of the accounts, but they were for very small amounts, when the credit 
limit was also small. And this also led to the credit limit being reduced at that time on that 
one account. But subsequently, through all of the credit increases, the accounts were well 
managed, the payments were mostly made at the minimum amounts required or higher 
(sometimes substantially so) and Ms H was not using anything close to the full credit limits 
available to her. I have noted the default Ms H pointed out, but there is no clear sight of 
when that occurred. And a default in itself would not make the lending given by J D 
Williams automatically unreasonable.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Ms H to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led J D Williams to think that the credit it 
provided Ms H was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Ms H was 
managing her account or what J D Williams could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Ms H will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Ms H to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman