DRN-2880975
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has dealt with the 
repairs to his motorhome under his motorhome insurance policy. 
 
What happened
 In April 2020 Mr Ms motorhome was damaged. The site where his vehicle was being stored 
had been broken into and a number of vehicles were damaged. Mr M made a claim on his 
motorhome insurance, held with RSA.
RSA agreed Mr Ms personal effects claim soon after he made the claim. But the claim for 
damage to the motorhome was complicated by the impact of Covid-19, as garages which 
could do the repair work were closed. 
RSA note that under their motorhome scheme they dont have recommended repairers. So 
they asked Mr M to find a local repairer. On 4 May 2020 Mr M told RSA hed found a garage 
and he provided an estimate. 
RSAs engineer reviewed the estimate. But he felt that a fully costed estimate would need an 
in-person vehicle inspection. As the manufacturer of the motorhome was closed until the 1 
June 2020, RSA noted that no parts would be available for a while. 
Mr M was unhappy that RSA had no contingency plan in place for the ongoing pandemic.
He asked RSA for a cash settlement, so he could arrange for repairs to be carried out 
himself.  RSA declined, saying that it wasnt possible to get accurate prices for replacement 
parts. They also felt they needed to retain control of the required repair to the main 
heating/boiler. And that any temporary repairs carried out could compromise the vehicles 
security. Or make it more difficult to permanently repair the motorhome.
On 12 May 2020 RSA suggested another local motorhome repair garage whod done work 
for them before. Mr M agreed and an estimate was requested. RSA also asked for the 
vehicle to be made weather proof if possible.
On 20 May 2020 the new garage told RSA that they couldnt get prices for parts from the 
manufacturer until they re-opened, possibly at the beginning of June 2020. They also 
advised that they werent manufacturer-approved. This meant they couldnt provide the 10-
year warranty on the motorhome. So RSA ruled out using them and had another look at     
Mr Ms initial garage. 
That garage re-opened on 26 May 2020. They said they could collect and store Mr Ms 
motorhome and provide the 10-year warranty. They werent able to start work until 15 June 
2020. They expected the repairs to take 4-6 weeks to complete. RSA told Mr M about this 
option. 
But on 27 May 2020 Mr M spoke to the garage. He said they told him his motorhome could 
take months to repair. He had a holiday in the motorhome booked for July 2020. And he 
didnt want to miss the use of his vehicle over the whole summer. So, unhappy with the 
timings, he again asked RSA for a cash settlement. When RSA declined his request, Mr M 
made a complaint.
RSA didnt uphold this complaint. They said they wouldnt offer a cash settlement that as the 
vehicle was repairable. Unhappy with their decision, Mr M brought his complaint to this 
service.
On 19 June 2020 RSA contacted Mr M. The garage hed initially chosen had confirmed that 
they could collect and start work on the vehicle on 22 June 2020. RSA told Mr M that the 
garage couldnt hold the repair slot so theyd need confirmation as soon as possible or the 
slot would be lost. Mr M said hed discuss the offer with his wife and call back. But he didnt 
return the call and the slot was lost.
Mr M then sent RSA a video showing that water had entered the vehicle and caused further 
damage. He felt this had been caused by delays which he blamed RSA for. RSA disagreed. 
But as a gesture of goodwill, and to prevent further damage, they offered to have the vehicle 
put into storage while his complaint was being investigated. 
On the 29 June 2020, shortly after Mr M had brought his complaint to this service, RSA 
arranged for his motorhome to be collected and safely stored at the garage hed chosen. 
Theyd told the recovery driver the vehicle wouldnt start, so he was expecting to uplift it. The 
recovery driver arrived to collect the motorhome on 30 June 2020. That same day, Mr M 
complained again to RSA.
He said hed had almost no advance warning of the collection. He felt that the recovery 
driver wouldnt be able to move the motorhome. And he said the driver had told him it wasnt 
going to be stored inside. So he sent the recovery driver away without the motorhome.
While our investigator was looking into the first complaint, Mr M made a further complaint to 
RSA. He said additional damage had been caused by water entering his motorhome 
because it hadnt been made weather proof after the initial damage. He wanted RSA to deal 
with that water damage as well. 
RSA didnt uphold the second complaint. They said theyd made arrangements  confirmed 
to Mr M on 26 May 2020 - that his motorhome could be collected and stored by the garage 
hed chosen. They said that if the motorhome had been moved into storage the damage 
couldve been prevented. They agreed that our investigator could consider the second 
complaint alongside the first one. They also said they were waiting for the outcome from this 
service on the first complaint. But that they could review their decision on the second 
complaint once wed reached a decision on the first complaint. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He felt that RSA didnt do enough to help him 
mitigate the loss to his motorhome. He recommended that RSA settle the claim for both the 
initial damage and the water damage in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He 
also felt RSA should pay Mr M £250 for the trouble and upset theyd caused him.
Mr M agreed with our investigator. RSA didnt agree. But didnt provide any further 
information. So the response has come to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 June 2021. It said:
The complaint breaks down into the following parts:
-Could RSA have prevented/reduced the initial delays to the repair process?-Should RSA have offered Mr M a cash settlement when he requested it?
-Could RSA/Mr M have prevented/mitigated the additional damage caused when 
water got into the motorhome?
Ill also look at the distress and inconvenience impact on Mr M.
Having considered all of the available evidence, I intend to uphold the complaint. 
Ill consider each part separately. 
Could RSA have prevented/reduced the initial delays to the repair process?
The incident happened after 23 March 2020 when national lockdown restrictions were in 
place. Its clear that Covid-19 caused delays to the repair process. Both the garage that 
could do the repair work and the motorhome manufacturer that could supply the parts were 
closed due to the pandemic. This was of course outside of anyones control.
As RSA dont have recommended repairers for motorhomes, they asked Mr M to find a local 
garage that could do the repairs during this time. Mr M did this and arranged for an estimate 
to be sent to RSA. 
RSA didnt accept that estimate straight away as they felt an in-person vehicle inspection 
was needed given the extent of the damage. Just over a week after the estimate had been 
provided, RSA suggested another garage. It turned out that the second garage wasnt 
qualified to do the required repairs. So RSA went back to the garage Mr M had suggested. 
That garage was closed until 26 May 2020, so I dont consider that RSAs initial decision not 
to accept the first estimate delayed the repair work.
Mr M spoke to the garage on 27 May 2020. When they told him how long the repairs would 
take he again asked RSA for a cash settlement. This was again declined. Ill cover this 
decision in the next section.
So RSA arranged for the motorhome to be collected so that repairs could start on 22 June 
2020. Despite being told that he would need to accept the slot offered quickly, or it would be 
lost, Mr M didnt get back to RSA and lost the slot.
RSA then arranged to collect the motorhome so it could be safely stored. They did this as a 
gesture of goodwill. But Mr M didnt let it be taken as the recovery driver told him it wouldnt 
be kept inside. This was a misunderstanding on the recovery drivers part.
I know Mr M feels that RSA shouldve had contingency plans in place so that his repairs 
couldve been sorted out more quickly. But Im not persuaded that RSA couldve done 
anything more to speed up the repair process under the circumstances. From what I can see 
they arranged for Mr Ms motorhome to be repaired as soon as possible. 
Im persuaded that it was Mr Ms failure to accept the scheduled slot that led to the repairs 
not being started on 22 June 2020. I can understand why he didnt want to accept the repairs 
at that point. He was uncertain whether RSA would accept liability for the water damage. 
But, from everything Ive seen, I cant hold RSA responsible for the delays to the initial repair 
process. 
Should RSA have offered Mr M a cash settlement when he requested it?From the evidence Ive seen, Mr M asked for a cash settlement as early as 7 May 2020 so 
that he could carry out temporary repairs. He wanted to be able to go on the trip hed 
planned in July 2020. And it looked like any repairs RSA could arrange wouldnt be 
completed in time for that to go ahead. 
RSA said they couldnt agree to a cash settlement. They said the vehicle was repairable, so 
a cash settlement wasnt an option. Under the terms of Mr Ms policy, RSA are entitled to 
settle any claim as they see fit. And I can see that the motorhome was valued at a much 
greater amount that the estimated repair costs, so I consider this to be a fair and reasonable 
response. 
RSA also said: If temporary repairs are carried out the security of your vehicle may be 
compromised which may affect your policy coverage. When full repairs are carried out 
further damage can be caused undoing temporary repairs. Issues could also arise further 
down the line due to temporary repairs being carried out. So they gave what I consider a 
reasonable explanation for their decision. 
But Im not satisfied that RSA took all reasonable steps to work with Mr M to find the best 
solution, given the restrictions they were facing due to Covid-19. Its clear from the evidence 
that the motorhome hadnt been protected from further damage. Ill consider that issue in the 
next section of my decision. 
I think that RSA couldve considered offering a partial cash settlement to Mr M due to the 
Covid-19 situation. It was clearly going to take a while to get the repairs done properly at an 
appropriate accredited garage. So I think it wouldve been fair and reasonable of RSA to 
allow Mr M to carry out emergency repairs on his motorhome as soon as possible, despite 
their concerns about the possible consequences of temporary repairs.
Could RSA/Mr M have prevented/mitigated the additional damage caused when water got 
into the motorhome?
If this service doesnt think an insurer has acted fairly then we consider the impact this has 
caused. In the above section I concluded that RSA didnt take all reasonable steps to work 
with Mr M to find the best solution to fix the initial damage. Im satisfied that at least some of 
the further damage caused by water ingress to the motorhome couldve been prevented if 
RSA had thought about the likely impact of the initial damage sooner. 
I note that the initial damage took place on or around 20 April 2020. But from what Ive seen, 
RSA only asked for the motorhome to be made water tight on 12 May 2020. But it wasnt 
made water tight. And the earliest date it wouldve been collected if Mr M had allowed the 
garage to do the repairs was 22 June 2020. So the motorhome was left unrepaired and open 
to the elements for more than two months. I consider that RSA is responsible for any water 
damage over this period.
When Mr M first notified RSA of the damage, they couldve arranged to secure his 
motorhome safely. Theyd accepted his claim. But Ive seen no evidence that any thought 
was given to securing the vehicle until 12 May 2020. 
But Mr M couldve also taken steps to mitigate damage from the elements. So we asked him 
if hed taken any steps to do just that. But Mr M told us he took no action. He replied: 
I never did anything to protect the motorhome as I didnt want to climb on the roof to cover 
the damaged door up thats why we thought this should have been put in storage from day 1. 
The current situation is its just sat there as it was from day one. Didnt think this was my 
issue to make safe and start to make secure as that is what we pay insurance for when things like this happen. 
I note that Mr M didnt allow his motorhome to be taken into secure storage on 30 June 
2020. And that he didnt accept the 22 June 2020 repair slot in time. So I consider that Mr M 
is responsible for any water damage that happened since 22 June 2020. 
Its clearly not going to be possible to determine what proportion of the water damage was 
done before 22 June 2020 and what proportion was done after it. 
So I think the only fair way to resolve this complaint is to ask RSA and Mr M to share the 
repair costs for the water damage. So I intend to ask RSA to cover 50% of those repair 
costs.  
Distress and inconvenience
Its clear that Mr M didnt think that RSA were doing everything they could to help him 
resolve his claim. Hes been left feeling uncertain about whether his claim would be covered 
in full. 
RSA could and shouldve told Mr M that any repairs he had carried out wouldnt prejudice his 
complaint about water ingress. They seem to have largely abandoned the claim for over a 
year. So the whole claims process has been stressful for Mr M. 
We asked Mr M for an update on his claim recently. He told us that the last contact hed had 
with RSA was when they sent the driver to collect his motorhome on 30 June 2020. He said: 
It is still sat on our drive and wont start. No repairs have been done at this stage.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that RSA couldve done more to resolve the claim to Mr 
Ms satisfaction. So I intend to require RSA to pay Mr M £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the way theyve handled his claim. 
Response to my provisional decision
RSA had nothing to add.
Mr M said he didnt think my provisional decision was fair. He felt that the secondary water 
damage wasnt his fault and he shouldnt be liable for any of the costs to fix it. He said that 
he shouldnt have been asked to secure the motorhome to further damage as he didnt know 
how to and was worried for his safety. He said that RSA shouldve sent an engineer out 
within the first week after the initial damage. 
Mr M also felt that £250 for the distress and inconvenience hed been put through wasnt 
enough. He said his health had suffered due to the claim. 
Mr M also said that the garage RSA said had been prepared to start repair work on the 
motorhome on 22 June 2020 had never had the work authorised by RSA. 
That garage contacted this service directly. They told us: Following submission of our 
quotation to RSA, we spoke and emailed directly with both RSA and Mr M directly to deal 
with all queries regarding the nature, timescale and conduct of the intended repair. However, 
we were never instructed (by Letter of Authority or written Instruction) by RSA or any other 
body to complete the proposed repair.
So we asked RSA to confirm whether theyd ever authorised the repairs at that garage. RSA told us that they wouldnt usually provide written authorisation. They said: the garage 
would normally provide the full estimate via the audatex system and confirmation they could 
go ahead would be back through the audatex system and our engineers will usually have a 
discussion with the garage. As the vehicle never made it to [garage name] for a full and 
accurate estimate following an inspection by coachwork then no authority was provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr M feels the way he does. In normal times, a customer would expect their 
insurer to arrange for repairs to be carried out after a claim. The customer wouldnt expect to 
have to get involved at all.
But unfortunately his claim happened during a period when things werent normal. Garages 
werent open. It was impossible for RSA to work as usual at the time of Mr Ms claim.
I agree that normally RSA wouldnt ask Mr M to secure his motorhome from further damage. 
But I can see why they did in this case. And I dont think the request was unreasonable. 
I acknowledge that the garage RSA said could start the repair work hadnt officially been 
authorised to do the work. But from what Ive seen, written authorisation isnt usually 
provided. And Im satisfied that RSA did try to get the repair work started on 22 June 2020. 
They also tried to collect Mr Ms motorhome on 30 June 2020. If Mr M had taken either of 
these opportunities to have his motorhome put under RSAs care I wouldve held RSA 
responsible for all of the secondary damage.
Im sorry this claim has taken such a long time to reach resolution and that Mr Ms health has 
suffered because of it. But I remain of the view that £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes been through is appropriate. Again, I can see that this claim couldve 
been dealt with in a much shorter time frame if Mr M had either booked the repair slot on 22 
June 2020. Or allowed RSA to take his motorhome away on 30 June 2020.
I know this will be disappointing to Mr M after having to wait so long for this final decision, 
but I remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
To put things right, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to: 
1. Deal with Mr Ms initial claim subject to the terms and conditions of the policy 
including excesses and limits; and 
2. due to their negligence in not mitigating further damage to the motorhome between 
the initial incident and 22 June 2020 Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should 
cover 50% of the cost of the repairs required to fix all of the water ingress damage. 
3. Pay Mr M £250 compensation. 
As an alternative to 1. and 2., with Mr Ms agreement, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
can offer a cash settlement.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
have already accepted Mr Ms claim for the initial damage. But they havent carried out the 
repairs that were needed yet. So I require them to carry out the actions detailed in the 
Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman