DRN-2515788
The complaint
Mr W complains that Isaac Agnew Limited transferred his Guaranteed Asset Protection 
(GAP) insurance policy to a new car rather than starting a new policy.
 
What happened
In 2016 Mr W bought a new car on a finance agreement sold by Isaac Agnew (who trade as 
the local Audi dealer). This was sold with a three year GAP insurance policy.
At the start of 2017 the car was in for a service at the dealers garage where Mr W bought it. 
During the service one of the staff members had an accident in the car and it was written off. 
Due to this Isaac Agnew agreed to offer Mr W a new car to replace the one it had damaged. 
It transferred over the original finance, which already had 12 months of payments made 
against it. And it transferred the GAP insurance policy, which now had two years left.
In December 2019 Mr Ws car was stolen from his home after a burglary. He made a claim 
on his insurance and tried to make a claim on his GAP insurance. However he found that the 
GAP insurance had already expired.
He made a complaint to Isaac Agnew as he said he had assumed the GAP insurance had 
started again when he had been provided with a new car and didnt think it was fair that it 
hadnt.
Isaac Agnew didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said when it provided the new vehicle it had 
agreed with Mr W that it would transfer the existing finance agreement to the new car as well 
as the GAP insurance. As the GAP insurance was for three years and it began in 2016, it 
was right that it had expired by December 2019 when Mr Ws car was stolen.
Mr W didnt think this was fair. He said it hadnt been made clear to him when he got the new 
car that the GAP insurance only had two years left. He said it should have been obvious to 
Isaac Agnew that he would want a new policy for three years as he had been a loyal 
customer for many years and always replaced his car after three years. He brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said as the new car had 
been a replacement, this wasnt the same as buying a new car with a new finance 
agreement. And she was satisfied that Isaac Agnew had acted fairly when transferring the 
GAP insurance policy to the new car, so wouldnt ask it to do anything differently.
Mr W didnt agree. He said he was never given documentation to confirm the policy had 
been transferred to the new car, so wouldnt have known this is what had happened. He 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Isaac Agnew acted as a broker when providing Mr W with the finance agreement and GAP 
insurance policy for his car. As such, it is responsible for the sale and administration of the 
policy. I need to decide if it has acted fairly and reasonably when transferring the policy to 
Mr Ws new car.
When Mr W bought his original car in 2016, Isaac Agnew sold him GAP insurance policy for 
three years as well as the finance agreement for the car. GAP insurance polices are often 
sold in conjunction with a finance agreement, as although they are completely separate, the 
GAP insurance is designed to make up any shortfall between whats left to pay on the 
finance agreement and the pay our from the policyholders insurer in the event of a total loss 
of the vehicle.
In 2017 the car was damaged by staff at the dealers garage. Isaac Agnew took 
responsibility for the crash and provided Mr W with a new car as a replacement. At this time 
it transferred the existing finance agreement to the new car. And the GAP insurance policy 
was also transferred.
Mr W has said that he doesnt think this was fair. He said as he was being provided with a 
new car, then he should also have a new GAP insurance policy that lasts for three years 
from the date of the sale. I have considered this but I dont agree Isaac Agnew has acted 
unfairly. 
When the new car was provided in 2017 this was a replacement for the car that Isaac Agnew 
had damaged. This was in order to rectify its error and put Mr W back into the position he 
would have been in if it hadnt damaged his car. In rectifying its error, and replacing the car, 
Isaac Agnew actually put Mr W in a better position than he would have been otherwise. If it 
had not damaged his car, he would have had a one year old car with one year paid on 
finance. Instead he had a brand new car with one year paid on finance. 
Most importantly, this wasnt the sale of a new car with a new finance agreement. As the 
finance that had already been paid was transferred to the replacement car. 
So Im satisfied that Isaac Agnew acted fairly when transferring the finance agreement to the 
replacement car. As the GAP insurance was taken out at the same time, it follows that this 
would also be transferred and wouldnt require the sale of a new policy. Again, because the 
car provided was to replace the car already on the finance agreement and not as the sale of 
a new car with a new agreement. 
Mr W has said that it wasnt made clear to him that the GAP insurance had been transferred, 
and he had assumed he had a new policy that covered three years from when the new car 
was provided in 2017.
While I understand Mr Ws frustration, I dont agree that Isaac Agnew has acted unfairly. Ive 
looked at the paperwork provided by it and I can see that it is highlighted on the document 
Mr W signed that the GAP insurance would be transferred, the finance would remain the 
same and there would be no cost to Mr W. So Im satisfied that this was made clear to Mr W 
at the time.
If Isaac Agnew had provided a new car with a new finance agreement in 2017, then I would 
agree with Mr W that a new GAP insurance policy should have been provided. However as 
the new car was provided to make up for the fact it had damaged the original one, Im 
satisfied that Isaac Agnew acted fairly by transferring the GAP insurance policy.After it damaged his car, Isaac Agnew took action to put Mr W back in the position he would 
have been in if it hadnt. So its also relevant to consider what would have happened, if the 
damage to the first car hadnt occurred. If it hadnt, then the finance agreement and GAP 
insurance would have started in 2016 and the GAP insurance would have expired in April 
2019. Therefore Mr W would never have been covered by the policy in December 2019 if the 
first car hadnt been damaged.
Mr W has said he replaces his car every three years, so if the car hadnt been damaged and 
replaced then he would have bought a new one before the theft and so would have had a 
new GAP insurance policy. This may have been the case, but it isnt my role to look at what 
might have happened, but instead to look at what did happen. So I cant base my decision on 
what Mr W may have done.
For these reasons, Im satisfied that Isaac Agnew treated Mr W fairly by transferring his GAP 
insurance policy to the replacement car. So I wont ask it to do anything differently.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I wont require Isaac Agnew Limited to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman