DRN-3340518
The complaint
Mr E complains about the way Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited handled 
his request to withdraw funds from his share dealing account. He says the delay in 
processing his request caused him a financial loss as well as stress and inconvenience.  
What happened
On 4th August 2021, Mr E made a request to transfer his available cash funds to his bank 
account. HL told him he would need a security code as he was using a new nominated bank 
to receive the funds. HL said it would send the code in the post.  As he hadnt received the 
code, Mr E contacted HL on 16th August 2021. HL sent him a new code by recorded 
delivery. Mr E received the code the next day and completed the authorisation to allow him 
to withdraw his funds.  
Mr E raised a complaint as he said the delay had prevented him from investing his money in 
another investment opportunity. He says as he wasnt able to invest, he lost out on an 
investment return. He also said the situation had caused him inconvenience and stress. 
HL looked into the complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said the security of its clients assets 
are of the utmost importance and so when a client updates a nominated bank account, it 
must send a validation code via the post to ensure that bank accounts are verified by the 
account holder. It said this is set out in its terms and conditions. Whilst it noted Mr E didnt 
receive the code initially, it assured him it was issued in the post the same working day. And 
didnt feel it could be held liable for errors or delays made within the postal service. 
Unhappy with the response he received, Mr E referred his complaint to our service for an 
independent review. One of investigators looked into his concerns. She also didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld, so didnt find HL needed to pay any compensation. In summary 
she said:
- The process for account validation is covered within HLs terms and conditions  and 
this required nominated bank accounts to be verified using a code  sent by post.
- HL didnt do anything wrong by dealing with Mr Es request in the way it did. 
- She considered HLs system records and was satisfied it did send the first code to Mr 
E. She didnt find that HL could be held responsible for any problems in the postal 
system. 
- Although HL were able to send the security code by recorded delivery (like it did the 
second time) the default process was by standard post. This was a reasonable 
position to take because most post is securely delivered in the standard way.
- The process HL used didnt compromised Mr Es security. It used a multi-step 
process to add nominated bank details and this process is quite common with 
financial institutions; She was satisfied HLs process was designed to ensure clients 
information is kept safe. 
Mr E didnt accept the assessment - and asked for an ombudsman to reach a final decision 
on his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered all of the concerns Mr E has raised and its clear he has very strong 
feelings about HLs actions. However, I trust he wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and that theyre expressed in less detail, as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of my decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to 
set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
At the crux of the complaint is how HL dealt with Mr Es request to withdraw funds and the 
process to validate his bank account details in order to allow him remove money. I 
appreciate his frustration at having to go through a validation process when he was keen to 
complete the withdrawal there and then. I also accept it was frustrating when he didnt 
receive the validation code he was expecting through the post. But in order to uphold the 
complaint I need to be persuaded that an error by HL caused the delay. 
Firstly, Im satisfied HLs request for the account to be validated was reasonable in light of its 
ongoing responsibility of ensuring its customers accounts and money are kept safe. Theres 
no prescribed methodology it needs to follow, so it falls to each financial business to 
determine how best to meet those responsibilities. Its therefore a matter of commercial 
discretion. But, that said, its also important that whatever methodology is adopted is 
proportionate and treats customers fairly. I dont think that against this backdrop, asking a 
customer to validate a bank account using a code sent by post before allowing a withdrawal 
of funds was unreasonable, or unduly onerous.
HL says its terms and conditions explained the requirements for a new account to be used to 
withdraw funds. The terms Ive seen confirm that the code will be sent by post. So, Im 
satisfied HL was following its usual procedure when dealing with Mr Es request.
Ive listened to the telephone call that Mr E had with HL when he first attempted to withdraw 
his funds. The call handler told him that the he would need to verify his bank account and 
that a code would be sent out to him by first class post. Mr Es mailing address was also 
checked during the call. There was no timescale mentioned for receipt of the code. It is 
accepted that Mr E didnt receive the first code, but this doesnt necessarily mean HL were at 
fault. Ive seen HLs systems records indicate a code was sent to Mr E on 4 August 2021. On 
balance, Im satisfied that HL did action the request to send a code. While Mr E believes this 
should have been sent by recorded delivery (like it was the second time), I dont think the 
fact HL didnt do this means it has treated Mr E unfairly. It didnt tell Mr E that the code would 
be sent by recorded delivery and its terms and conditions dont say this either. As Mr E didnt 
receive the first code, it is understandable why HL chose to use an enhanced delivery 
service to help make sure he received it at the second attempt. But I dont think it had a 
requirement to do this. 
Mr E says that he suffered a loss of opportunity to utilise the money he was planning to 
withdraw during the time he was unable to get his funds out. In the initial call he made to HL 
it is apparent he was not happy that he couldnt immediately get his money, but he didnt 
mention a specific investment opportunity he was looking to action. But Ive already found 
that HL didnt do anything wrong in handling the withdrawal request or treated him unfairly in 
the way the bank account was validated. So, it follows that I dont find it is responsible for 
any delays or can be held responsible for causing an opportunity loss for Mr E.   My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman