DRN-3197318
The complaint
The Estate of Mr R believe Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Mazda Financial 
Services acted irresponsibly by agreeing a conditional sale agreement Mr R had applied for.
What happened
On 2 September 2019, Mr R was supplied with a new car through a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander. Mr R paid a deposit of £4,049 and the agreement was for 
£18,852 over 43 months; with 42 monthly repayments of £298.97, and a final payment of 
£8,266.50. Unfortunately, Mr R died in March 2020.
The Estate of Mr R have complained Santander didnt act responsibly when approving the 
agreement. They said that Mr R normally purchased used cars, and he paid for them in full. 
So, they think that he mustve been pressurised into taking the agreement, as this type of 
transaction was out of character. 
Mr R was 81 at the time he took out the agreement, and the Estate of Mr R think it shouldve 
been explained to him that his widow would have to take on liability for the agreement if he 
passed away, and that she wasnt financially able to carry on with the repayments. The 
Estate of Mr R also said that Mr R had a modest income and a high credit card debt at the 
time, so the agreement wouldnt have been affordable to him.
Santander thought theyd acted reasonably, but the Estate of Mr R wasnt happy with this 
response. So, they brought this complaint to us for investigation.
Santander said theyd carried out a credit check, but they werent able to provide a copy of 
this. But, from the checks they did, Santander thought the monthly payments were affordable 
for Mr R. Our investigator said that, because Santander hadnt provided enough evidence of 
the checks they carried out, he would need to consider what reasonable and proportionate 
checks wouldve shown.
The Estate of Mr R was able to provide Mr Rs bank statements from the time just after the 
agreement was approved. While the investigator said these didnt conclusively prove Mr Rs 
financial situation just before the agreement was taken out, they did show a regular pension 
income of just under £2,000 a month. And they showed Mr Rs regular outgoings were 
around £300 a month. 
The investigator also considered Mr Rs credit card debt, which the investigator believed 
stood around £10,000 at the time Mr R passed away. And taking everything into 
consideration, the investigator hadnt seen to show that the agreement wasnt affordable at 
the time, or that that repayment wasnt sustainable.
The investigator also said that Santander didnt act unfairly because of Mr Rs age at the 
time he took out the agreement, and he wouldnt have expected them to discriminate against 
him because of his age. He also didnt think that, just because Mr R hadnt taken out a 
agreement of this type before, this meant he was pressurised into doing so. And he said 
that, upon his death, the settlement of Mr Rs agreement is the responsibility of his estate, 
not his widow. So, he didnt think that Santander had done anything wrong.
The Estate of Mr R didnt agree. They said that Mr R wouldve been 85 when the agreement 
ended, and he wouldve had to pay over £8,000 at that point from his savings. And, as Mr R 
never brought another new car in his life, the Estate of Mr R said something happened in 
that  garage in  the summer of 2019 where a salesman tempted {Mr R} with an unwise 
proposition which he admitted to his wife  he almost immediately regretted. They also 
believe that, because of how Mr R dressed and spoke, Santander showed bias in thinking he 
could afford the agreement.
The Estate of Mr R also provided a breakdown of Mr R and his wifes annual expenditure, 
which they said totalled £23,235 (£1,936.25 a month). The investigator asked the Estate of 
Mr R for some evidence of this expenditure, and some documentation was provided. But the 
investigator said this didnt change his view. So, the Estate of Mr R have asked for this 
matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
R would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Santander make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr R 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Santander didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Rs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Santander have said they carried out their own internal checks, before agreeing Mr Rs 
finance application. Theyve said that this would include a successful credit check (which 
wouldve met their criteria for low monthly commitments). And no concerns were identified.
Santander also said that the dealership wouldve gone through the agreement with Mr R, at 
the point of sale. And that he was under no obligation to sign the documents. Theyve also 
said that they wouldnt refuse someone finance based solely on their age.However, Santander havent been able to provide full details of the checks they carried out. 
Given this, I cant say if what they did was either reasonable or proportionate.
Would any additional checks Santander couldve done have shown that Mr R could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
Because Santander have evidenced what checks they did, Ive gone on to consider what 
they wouldve seen if these checks had been carried out. 
Neither Santander nor the Estate of Mr R have been able to provide a copy of Mr Rs credit 
file. So, I cant establish exactly what was showing at the time of the application. However, 
its not disputed that the only debt that Mr R had was three credit cards, and that he didnt 
have any missed payments, defaults, or county court judgements. 
The Estate of Mr R have provided copies of Mr Rs credit card statements from August 2019. 
And these show that Mr R owed a total of £13,712. Given the circumstances, Im satisfied 
that its more likely than not that this is what the credit search wouldve shown at the time.
The Estate of Mr R have also provided copies of Mr Rs bank statements for June to August 
2019  the period immediately before the finance was taken out. As well as a credit search, I 
also wouldve expected Santander to have carried out some form of income and affordability 
check. And, while I wouldnt have expected Santander to have asked Mr R for copies of his 
bank statements, Im satisfied that these statements give a good indication of what 
Santander would likely have taken into consideration.
The bank statements show that Mr R received a private pension of £1,232.01 a month, and 
a state pension of £771.56 a month. In addition to this, he received investment income that 
varied on a month to month basis. This averaged £286.64 a month over the period July to 
December 2019.
According to the Estate of Mr R, he lived in a property that was in his wifes sole name and 
was mortgage free. So, Mr R didnt have any mortgage or rental costs. The bank statements 
show Mr R paid £278.81 a month in insurance premiums; an average of £234.97 (£78.32) a 
quarter for phone and broadband; and £49.80 a month for a mobile phone.
The Estate of Mr R have said that Mr R paid the household bills, but these were usually paid 
annually and/or by cheque, so they dont show on the bank statements supplied. The Estate 
of Mr R have provided copies of bills for 2020/21 which show the council tax was £263 a 
month, the water rates were £296.84 a year (£24.74 a month), the energy bills were £119 a 
month, and the sewage (septic tank emptying) was £95 a year (£7.92 a month).
Taking all of the above into consideration, and assuming the 2019/20 council tax and water 
rates were no higher that the 2020/21 figures; just using the pension income alone, Mr R 
would be left with £1,181.98 disposable income a month, after paying all priority and 
household bills. And this would increase to £1,468.62 a month, if the average monthly 
investment income was to be taken into consideration.
While Im aware from the statements the Estate of Mr R provided that Mr R regularly paid 
large amounts from his credit cards, this information wouldnt have been available to 
Santander from the credit check, only the amount outstanding. And, because Mr R had the 
flexibility to pay either just the minimum payment or any amount over this, on a monthly 
basis, Id only expect Santander to account for a regular payment of say 5% of the 
outstanding balance each month. And, in this instance, this would be £685.60.So, taking into account both the credit card payments and the new payment to Santander, 
Mr R would still be left with £484.05 a month for discretionary spending.
The Estate of Mr R have said that Mr Rs wife was financially reliant upon him, and he also 
paid the car running costs (insurance, maintenance etc.) for one of his children. But I havent 
seen anything that shows me that Santander were made aware of this at the time. Because 
of this, Im satisfied that, if Santander had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
at the time; based on the information they had available to them these wouldve shown that 
Mr R was able to afford the finance payment, and that that affordability was sustainable.
Ive also noted that Mr R made all the payments to Santander until the date of his death. 
Which also goes to show both affordability and that the affordability was sustainable.
The Estate of Mr R have said that Mr R purchasing a new car was out of character and, 
because of this, they believe he was pressured into this. And theyve said that he expressed 
regret after making the purchase. However, there are many reasons why someone may 
choose to purchase a new car, including the reduced maintenance costs associated with a 
warranty and the lack of MOT requirement for the first three years.
Ive seen nothing that shows me Mr R was pressured into purchasing the car. And, if he was, 
or if he regretted the purchase, he couldve contacted the dealership and/or Santander to 
see what options he had to unwind the agreement and return the car. But he didnt do this. 
So, Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, Mr R chose to purchase a new car, and 
he chose to keep this.
The Estate of Mr R have also referred to Mr Rs age  81  at the time he took out the 
agreement. And theyve said that, because of this, Santander shouldnt have agreed the 
finance application. The Equality Act 2010 protects people from discrimination based on 
what are called protected characteristics, one of which is age. So, Santander couldnt 
discriminate against Mr R by refusing the finance based solely on his age  to do so 
wouldve been illegal. Instead, Santander were required to assess his application as they 
wouldve for any other applicant  which they did. So, Santander didnt do anything wrong.
Given the above, and while I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to the Estate 
of Mr R; Im satisfied that Santander acted reasonably and fairly when they agreed the 
finance for Mr R. And I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold the Estate of Mr Rs complaint about 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Mazda Financial Services Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman