DRN-2369399
The complaint
Mr G, on behalf of N, complains about the advice it received from Allianz Business Services 
Limited, trading as Premierline Business Insurance Broker, in relation to the cover provided 
by Ns commercial insurance policy. 
What happened
N has the benefit of a commercial insurance policy underwritten by C. N took the policy out 
via Allianz Business Services Limited, trading as Premierline Business Insurance Broker 
(Premierline). This policy renewed in February 2020 but, following this renewal, Mr G 
contacted Premierline to discuss the cover provided.
During a phone call between Mr G and Premierline on 5 March 2020, Mr G asked 
Premierline to confirm whether the policy would cover Ns losses for business interruption if 
N was required to close as a result of the developing Covid-19 pandemic. 
Premierline stated:
When it comes to Covid-19 there is a stance taken by [C]. [C] are saying, regarding 
their policies if for example there is a government or police shut down they would 
look to respond. Now Im not saying, what they wont say and what we cant tell you 
is that they will pay out, but what the policy will do is respond to such a business 
claim. So, if you lose business and the government have imposed movement 
restrictions etc. the policy will look to respond
The situation being at the moment, what I cant do... is definitively say scenario A 
yes, scenario B no. With coronavirus claims are settled on the basis of responding 
to a claim that is insured on your policy. And coronavirus, or viral infection, isnt 
necessarily stated as a risk insured on your policy. But [C] have given direction, 
under certain circumstances they will look at and consider claims for loss of 
business. And in certain circumstances they categorically wont. As I say, if its self-
imposed shut down, no. If its government imposed, maybe. And if it infects the 
building youre in then maybe.
In this call, the financial limit for the business interruption cover on Ns policy was increased 
from £50,000 to £100,000. But no other amendment was made to the policy. When agreeing 
to increase the financial limit, Mr G said:
Lets go ahead with that anyway. And it just gives me a bit more peace of mind. Not 
that I know that theyre definitely going to cover it.
A couple of weeks later, on 17 March 2020, Mr G wrote to Premierline asking for a copy of 
the policy wording and for Premierline to confirm whether the policy would cover 
circumstances where N was instructed to close its premises by the Government. Premierline 
responded, enclosing a copy of the policy documents and referring Mr G to page 25 of the 
policy wording and the definition of Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease. This 
definition as a list of specific illnesses and this list did not include Covid-19. The definition 
also stated that no other disease would be added unless C confirmed so in writing. 
N was required to close following the Prime Ministers announcement on 20 March 2020 and 
the regulations that were made following this. Mr G, on behalf of N, claimed for the losses 
suffered as a result of this closure. But C declined the claim, primarily because Covid-19 
wasnt one of the specific illnesses covered by Ns policy.
Mr G, on behalf of N, complained about both the decision of C and the information provided 
by Premierline. Ns complaint about C has been considered separately. The current 
complaint concerns the actions of Premierline. 
Premierline said that this was a unique situation and that it provided accurate information 
based on what was known at the time. It said that it had contacted C and passed onto Mr G 
the information it had been given. 
Mr G was not satisfied, and Ns complaint was referred to this service. Our investigator did 
not think the complaint should be upheld though. She felt that Premierline had passed on 
accurate information, and that Ns decision to increase the financial limit of cover was taken 
for reasons other than solely the potential impact of Covid-19. The investigator also thought 
that, whilst it didnt seem Premierline had requested C add Covid-19 to the list of specified 
illnesses, C has confirmed that it would not have done so anyway.
Mr G remained unhappy. He then asked Premierline whether Covid-19 could be added to 
the list of covered diseases in case of further lockdowns. Premierline said that this was not 
possible on the package N has. Mr G is also unhappy that he did not receive such a clear 
response in March 2020. Ns complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the circumstances and considerable financial impact lockdown had 
on N through no fault of its own. But, for similar reasons to the investigator, I wont be 
upholding Ns complain. Ill explain why.
Whilst I appreciate Mr G was seeking clarity on whether or not any claim N might have to 
make would be covered by Ns policy, I am conscious that the situation in March 2020 was 
an evolving one. It wasnt known at this point how the pandemic would develop or what 
exactly the cause would be of any losses N might sustain. As such, it would be difficult for 
either an insurer or a broker to provide a definitive answer on whether or not a claim would 
be met. 
All insurance claims need to be considered on the individual circumstances of that claim. 
Where the potential future circumstances are unclear, it usually isnt possible to provide any 
certainty. 
This is reflected in the content of Mr Gs call with Premierline, as set out above. I consider 
Premierline were clear that the policy didnt specifically state coronavirus was a risk insured 
on Ns policy, but that C would, in certain circumstances consider claims. Premierline were 
unable to confirm whether or not such a claim would be met. And Mr G was aware of this 
lack of certainty, as can be seen from his comment when increasing the financial limit of 
cover:Not that I know that theyre definitely going to cover it.
I have considered whether the information Premierline gave was accurate. I have been 
provided with part of a written exchange between Premierline and C on 3 March 2020, two 
days prior to the phone call with Mr G. In this exchange, C confirms that, depending on the 
circumstances, it would consider a claim from a policyholder. This doesnt confirm whether a 
claim would actually be met. This is the information Premierline then gave Mr G. So, I cant 
agree that Premierline gave incorrect information or acted inappropriately here. 
I have also thought about Premierlines actions on 17 March 2020. The information 
Premierline gave at this point was also correct, though I do think Premierline might have 
been more helpful. Mr G had specifically asked whether the policy would cover Ns losses if 
they were instructed to close by the Government as a result of Covid-19. Premierline 
referred Mr G to the wording of the policy relating to diseases. Reading this, it would be clear 
that Covid-19 was not one of the specific illnesses covered by this section of the policy. So, 
Premierline did provide Mr G with the means of answering his own question, even if it left 
this for him to determine. This might not have been the best service it was possible to give. 
But the information provided was accurate and, taking into account the information given two 
weeks prior, I think Mr G would have had enough information to understand the situation. 
Mr G has queried why a more definitive answer was possible some months later. He is 
unhappy he didnt receive such a response in March 2020. I appreciate Mr Gs unhappiness 
here and agree that it would have been preferable for a definitive answer to have been 
provided in March 2020. However, as I have said, the pandemic was an evolving situation. 
Mr Gs queries in March took place prior to the Government action which led to Ns losses. 
His query in August 2020 was made at a time when there was greater understanding of the 
circumstances of any claim and when insurance companies, including C, had made further 
decisions about what they were willing to provide cover for going forward. This greater clarity 
allowed for a more definitive answer. 
Lastly, I have considered whether Mr G wouldve made the changes to Ns policy that he did 
in March 2020, had he known Ns claim would ultimately not be met. I think that he would. 
I do not think the changes were limited to trying to ensure there was appropriate cover for 
Covid-19 related claims. The content of Mr Gs call reveals that N has two premises insured 
by the policy with C. The financial limit prior to March 2020 would have potentially covered 
the losses of one of these premises, but not both. Premierline recommended increasing the 
financial limit to match the potential losses of both Ns premises. I consider this advice to be 
sound as, had an insured event occurred that impacted both of these properties, N would not 
be fully covered without changing this financial limit. And I dont consider this decision was 
taken solely in light of Covid-19. 
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr G, but taking into account all 
of the circumstances, I am unable to uphold Ns complaint. Ultimately, I am satisfied that 
Premierline provided Mr G with accurate information in March 2020.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ns complaint about Allianz Business Services 
Limited, trading as Premierline Business Insurance Broker.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G, on behalf of N, to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman