DRN-2057382
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain that Yorkshire Building Society trading as Chelsea Building 
Society (YBS) mis-sold them a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 2005 when they applied for a joint mortgage. 
They also complain that the PPI policy would not have covered Mr S when it was amended 
in 2007 when he reported a change in his employment status.
 
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S said the PPI had been mis-sold in 2005 because the cost had not been 
explained in detail. The policy only covered Mr S for unemployment (as he was employed at 
that stage.) 
Later, when he became self-employed, he contacted YBS in 2007 to cancel the policy  but 
he was told that if the policy was amended to accident and sickness cover, then it would still 
cover him  even though he was self-employed. Mrs S and Mr S maintain the policy would 
not have covered Mr S when he was self-employed. And Mr S said YBS had confirmed this 
in its final response letter to him.
Our adjudicator rejected both parts of the complaint. Mrs S and Mr S disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
The policy only covered Mr S, so I will sometimes only refer to him. But I will refer to Mrs S 
and Mr S where appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss and Mr Ss case.
Having done that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and that the amended policy would 
still have covered Mr S after he became self-employed. Ill explain why.
The original policy sold in 2005
I first looked at whether it was made clear to Mrs S and Mr S that the policy was an optional 
product in 2005. 
YBS said the mortgage application form was completed by one of their representatives. Mrs 
S and Mr S said the mortgage was sold during a telephone call. I have looked at the 
mortgage application very carefully and can see that Mrs S and Mr S asked for a quote for 
PPI on 6 April 2005. A welcome letter dated 18 May 2005 shows there was a separate cost 
for the policy. And I also noted Mrs S and Mr S tailored the policy only to cover Mr S. So I 
think its more likely they were aware PPI was an optional product.
YBS says this was a non- advised sale, so it didnt have to check if the policy was suitable 
for Mr S. But Mrs S and Mr S had to make that decision for themselves. So I looked at their 
finances at the time to see if they would have found the policy useful. 
I noted Mr S said he had good employee benefits and a years salary in joint savings. 
However, the PPI could have paid out for a maximum of 12 months on a successful claim, 
leaving his employee benefits and savings for other expenses. They also had a life 
insurance policy  but this covered an event not covered by PPI. So I think PPI would have 
been a useful benefit for them because Mrs S and Mr S borrowed funds against a large and 
long-term financial commitment, which was secured on their home. I think having the 
security that the mortgage repayments would be paid if Mr S was unemployed would have 
been important to them  leaving their savings for other expenses and their other insurances 
for other insurance events. So I do think they could have found the PPI policy useful.
YBS should have given Mrs S and Mr S enough information which was clear, fair and not 
misleading so they could make their own decision about it.
I think the cost was probably clear enough for them on the documents they would have 
received around that time. And having decided Mrs S and Mr S chose to take out the PPI - it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. It also looks like the policy was affordable. And  
for the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. So I dont think more detailed cost and benefits information 
would have put them off from buying PPI.
I also noted that as Mr S was employed and in good health, he wasnt affected by the main 
exclusions and limitations in the PPI policy - so I dont think he would have changed his mind 
about PPI if hed got more detailed information about them. Mr S said YBS mentioned in its 
final response that the 2005 policy exclusions and limitations affected the self-employed  
but I dont think that has any effect on Mr Ss case as he was employed at the time of buying 
this policy. So the exclusions and limitations did not affect him in 2005.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was shown as optional, I think it could have 
been of benefit to Mrs S and Mr S and I think they were probably given enough information 
about the PPI to make a decision about it. So I am not going to uphold this part of the 
complaint.
The policy amendment in 2007
YBS told us it received a telephone call from Mr S on 9 January 2007. He told YBS he was 
self-employed and wanted to cancel his PPI policy as it would not cover him. The YBS 
representative told him that he could still claim on a policy with accident and sickness cover. 
So the policy was amended to remove the unemployment cover, and to provide accident and 
sickness cover for Mr S instead.
I looked very carefully at the policy terms of two policies which YBS said were nearest to the 
date when Mr Ss policy was amended. I think it was still possible for him to make a 
successful claim for accident or sickness cover because I couldnt see anything in the policy 
terms which excludes self-employed people from making such a claim. So I do not uphold 
this part of the complaint.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman