DRN-3690060
The complaint
Mr C complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim he made under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he says was 
misrepresented to him by the supplier (which Ill call S).
Mr C is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In December 2017, Mr C purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr C financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano that was 
repayable over ten years.
In April 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Cs behalf under section 75 of the Act to Ikano. 
The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced 
Mr C to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would pay for itself through its benefits, which would cover the cost of the 
finance.
Ikano issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr C but it made an offer of settlement. That, in effect, would make the 
solar panels self-funding over the term of the loan.
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service saying that Ikano 
had rejected the complaint on the basis it was made more than six years after the sale took 
place.
Our adjudicator pointed out to the CMC that Ikanos response contained an offer of 
settlement and asked why Mr C remained dissatisfied. The CMC replied to say that Mr C 
doesnt feel the offer represents fair value. It said that, based on the information provided by 
Mr C, it calculated the benefit of the system over ten years to be £3,360.02, whereas Ikano 
calculated it to be £4,975.97.
Our adjudicator asked Ikano for its comments about what the CMC had said, and for its file 
including documents from the time of sale. When Ikano responded, in August 2022, it said 
that although it had previously made an offer this had not been accepted. And it was now 
withdrawing that offer having reviewed the case again. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. 
The CMC disagreed. It said that the sales contract only showed an estimate for the first year. 
It doesnt show the benefits over the ten-year loan term. Mr C relied on what he was told by 
the sales representative, who said the system would perform better than shown on the 
contract. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mr C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr C could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr C and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Ikano. 
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These 
include the credit agreement and sales contract.
The order form is a one-page document which sets out key information about the system, 
the expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process (as it appears to have been completed and signed 
during the sales meeting) and is therefore relevant, alongside Mr Cs recollection of the sale, 
when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (£6,000.00), the total charge for 
credit (£1,919.69), the total amount payable (£7,919.69), the term of the loan (120 months or 
ten years) and the contractual monthly repayments (£66.01).
Sales contract
The original order form set out the cost of the system alongside the expected first-year 
benefits of the system as follows:I think the sales contract is clear that the system would cost £6,000.00, which was to be fully 
funded by a 120-month loan. It refers to this as IKANO 120 MONTHS. I think Mr C 
wouldve understood this given he agreed at the same meeting to fund the purchase using 
the Ikano loan repayable over ten years.
I think it is also clear that the first-year benefit of the system was expected to total between 
£283.17 and £384.15 based on self-consumption rates of 25% and 50% respectively. This 
figure includes FIT payments and the value of electricity savings. Self-consumption rate is 
the proportion of the electricity generated by the system that Mr C would use himself. 
The basic cost of the system and its first-year benefits are shown close to each other on the 
order form, just above where Mr C signed, so these figures couldve been compared easily.
I think it is clear from this that the system would not be self-funding. For a ten-year loan of 
£6,000.00, the repayments would be £600.00 per year (although the actual annual 
repayments were more due to the loan interest). This is significantly more than the highest 
potential benefit quoted of £384.15. 
I think this one-page document was an integral part of the sale and these figures would most 
likely have been discussed with Mr C. Im not persuaded that the salesperson is likely to 
have said the system was self-funding, or that they wouldve been able to plausibly and 
persuasively explain how it could be so, given the information on the sales contract. So, I 
think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the solar panel system in 
the way Mr C has alleged.
Self-funding
Mr C may have been told the system would be self-funding over some period of time  such 
as its expected 25-year expected lifespan. A simple calculation would suggest that the 
system may be self-funding over between 21 and 28 years if the benefit was in line with the 
estimate and remained about the same each year.
However, the FIT payments are linked to inflation, and electricity costs could reasonably be 
assumed to increase over time. So, Mr C couldve been told that the system was self-funding 
over its lifetime (or over a shorter time depending what assumptions were made) without it 
being a misrepresentation. But I think it is unlikely that he was told the system would be 
immediately self-funding or that he would at no stage be out of pocket.
The CMC has suggested that Mr C wouldnt have agreed to buy the system if he was told it 
was not immediately self-funding. But, it appears he agreed to pay approximately £792 per 
year in loan repayments when he was told the financial benefit of the system in the first year 
would be between £283.17 and £384.15. In doing so, he wouldve been expecting to make 
an approximate net contribution in the first year of at least £408. So, I think Mr C ought to 
have been aware that the system would not be immediately self-funding.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr C 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
I understand that Mr C and the CMC are frustrated that Ikano made an offer of settlement 
and later withdrew this. However, given that Mr C had not accepted the offer, Ikano was free 
to withdraw it at any time. So, this does not change my decision, which is that I do not 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman