DRN-4482571
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as F, complains that Paymentsense Limited (Paymentsense) 
repeatedly sent incorrect invoices for payments they said were owed. 
In bringing this complaint, F is represented by its director who Ill refer to as Mr C. 
What happened
The background to this case is well known to the parties so, I wont repeat it in detail.  
Briefly:
F has a contract with Paymentsense for the provision of a card terminal through which it is 
able to take card payments from its customers. 
Mr C has told us that:
In June 2023, F was provided with a new terminal and the old one was returned to 
Paymentsense. 
From that point onwards F should have received monthly invoices of £14 plus VAT 
for one terminal. Instead, F was being charged varying incorrect amounts including in 
August the monthly rental fee for both the new and returned terminals. So, Mr C 
complained to Paymentsense. 
Paymentsense acknowledged theyd made errors. In particular that in the months between 
June and October 2023 F should have been charged £67.20 for the terminal rental whereas 
it had been sent invoices totalling £136.80. 
In November 2023 Paymentsense resolved the issues that were causing the billing errors 
and compensated F for their poor service.  
But Mr C said that during the months Paymentsense errors persisted, he had to spent time 
contacting them to put things right, time that he otherwise would have spent on Fs affairs. 
He believed Paymentsense should also compensate him for that time. He estimated that 
hed spent six hours dealing with Paymentsenses errors at a charge out rate of £50 per 
hour. Whereas the total compensation received from Paymentsense of £155.40 falls short by 
£145 of the amount that is properly due. 
Paymentsense did not wish to pay further compensation and as the complaint remained 
unresolved Mr C referred it to this service to consider.  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. After looking into things, he concluded - in 
summary that:
Paymentsense have already acknowledged they made mistakes in that invoice they 
sent to F were incorrect, albeit from November 2023 correct ones were being 
received. 
The period when incorrect invoices were being generated caused inconvenience to 
F. But Paymentsense wasnt obliged, however, to pay compensation to F based on 
Mr C hourly rate of £50. 
We determine the right level of compensation by having regard to the impact 
Paymenentsenses mistake had on F and what we consider fair. The £155.40 
Paymentsense paid as well as refunding incorrect charges, taken all together is 
enough to put things right
F did not accept the investigators conclusions. On its behalf Mr C has maintained his 
position that overall the compensation is insufficient. So, the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above, there is no dispute Paymentsense made errors in the invoices they sent to 
F from June to October 2023. Indeed, theyve admitted those errors and have already 
compensated F as also noted above. So, the question for me is whether the compensation is 
fair and reasonable. 
I accept F would have been inconvenienced by the incorrect invoices Paymentsense kept 
sending to it in the months between June and October 2023.  And I say that largely for the 
reasons Mr C has told us which is that he was having to spend time contacting 
Paymentsense to put things right. 
I have also noted Mr Cs testimony that the compensation Paymentsense has paid so far of 
£155.40 falls short by £145 when considered by reference to his hourly charge out rate of 
£50. 
But its worth pointing out the complainant in this case is F the limited company. We wouldnt 
generally award compensation based on the directors hourly rate as Mr C would like to 
happen in this case. Instead, we consider the overall impact the error had on the 
complainant - F. 
Given the timeline of events, along with the evidence Ive seen I am satisfied F was caused 
some avoidable inconvenience. Especially as Mr C had to contact Paymentsense to put right 
their invoice errors. But I bear in mind Paymentsense have taken steps to put right the 
underlying causes of their error. And theyve explained in more specific terms the other steps 
theyve taken to put things right including:
paid credits and refunds of £103.20 to F as a gesture of goodwill; 
paid a further £105 in goodwill payments in recognition of the 
inconvenience and time spent resolving the issue. And on the same basis 
a further £50.40. This more recent payment being the equivalent of three 
further months of terminal rental at £14 per month plus VAT; and
 apologised for the issues F experienced.After taking everything into account I am satisfied that Paymentsenses actions have caused 
inconvenience to F. In particular, because Mr C has had to spend time and effort 
corresponding with Paymentsense to resolve their invoice errors. But Im satisfied also that 
Paymentsense have fairly and reasonably compensated F in all the circumstances of the 
complaint and need take no further action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman