DRN-2096777
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLC and their decision to decline her 
application for a top up loan.
What happened
In October 2019, Mrs S contacted Tesco to apply for a top up loan of £1,000. She had an 
existing loan with Tesco which she wanted to transfer to a new loan on a lower rate of 
interest after seeing promotional documentation. But Mrs Ss application was declined.
Mrs S thought this may be due to incorrect information being reported on her credit file by 
another company. So, she had this information removed and then appealed Tescos original 
decision to decline her claim. But Tesco declined the application again, saying Mrs S still 
didnt meet their lending criteria. Mrs S was unhappy with this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs S complained about Tescos decision to decline her application. She was unhappy the 
new loan would result in a monthly payment that was less than the amount she currently 
paid on the existing loan approved in 2017. So, she couldnt understand why she now failed 
to meet the lending criteria. She was also unhappy that some of the information included in 
her application had been entered incorrectly. To resolve the issue, Mrs S wanted the new 
loan to be approved and compensation for the inconvenience shed been caused.
Tesco responded and upheld Mrs Ss complaint in part. They thought their decision to 
decline the application was a fair one as Mrs S didnt meet their lending criteria. But as their 
lending criteria was commercially sensitive, they were unable to confirm the exact reason to 
Mrs S. But they explained the information on Mrs Ss credit file wasnt a deciding factor. 
They did agree that some information had been inputting incorrectly into the application form 
but didnt think this affected the decline of the claim. So, they offered Mrs S £25 to recognise 
their mistake.
Mrs S wasnt happy with this. She felt the decline remained unfair. And she was also 
unhappy with Tescos failure to call her back and failing to meet deadlines for 
communication when handling her complaint and she wanted this considered. Tesco 
responded reiterating their decision that decline of the claim was reasonable. But they 
offered another £25 to recognise their failure to call Mrs S back. Mrs S remained unhappy, 
so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought Tescos 
decision to decline the claim was fair after seeing the lending criteria. But explained this was 
commercially sensitive information so couldnt go into greater detail with Mrs S. They also 
explained Mrs S entered into a fixed agreement with Tesco when she took out the first loan, 
so she didnt think Tesco had an obligation to transfer the existing loan to a new loan with a 
lower rate of interest. She acknowledged there had been mistakes in the information used 
on the application for, but she didnt think this impacted the decline of the claim. So, she 
thought the £25 Tesco offered to recognise this was fair.
She also recognised Tescos second offer of £25 to recognise their failings when handling 
Mrs Ss complaint. But she explained she was unable to comment on this offer, or that 
aspect of the complaint, as it referred to Tescos complaint handling which fell outside of this 
services jurisdiction. So, she didnt think Tesco needed to do anything further.
Mrs S didnt agree with this. She thought her high credit score showed she was able to 
afford the new loan. And felt her previous banking history showed she never takes on 
financial commitments she cant sustain. So, she maintained her position that Tesco 
declined her application unfairly and she now felt trapped in the existing loan she took out. 
As Mrs S didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise this complaint has had on Mrs S. I can appreciate Mrs S wanted to 
take out the new loan to help support her son with equipment he needed for his studies. So, 
I can understand Mrs Ss disappointment when Tesco declined her claim and made this 
more difficult. I can also understand why Mrs S was left confused as the monthly payments 
quoted when she made the application wouldve been less that the payment she continued 
to make each month on her existing loan. But, for me to agree Tesco have done something 
wrong, Id need to be satisfied they failed to consider all the relevant financial information 
they had available. Or, that they didnt assess this information reasonably against their 
lending criteria. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Each lender has their own lending criteria which they set themselves. And its not my role to 
say whether this lending criteria is fair. My role is to ensure Tesco assessed Mrs Ss 
application against these criteria fairly, meaning the decision to decline the loan was a 
reasonable one.
Ive seen Tescos lending criteria. And Ive seen the financial information Mrs S provided. 
And after reviewing both, Im satisfied Mrs S failed to meet the lending criteria needed for the 
loan to approved. Im unable to provide the specific reasons as to why as Tescos lending 
criteria is commercially sensitive. But I want to assure Mrs S they assessed her application 
against the criteria fairly.
Im aware some of the financial information Tesco initially assessed the application against 
were incorrect and Tesco have recognised this. But Ive seen Tesco reviewed the original 
decline with the correct information when Mrs S appealed it, following the correction of her 
credit report. And having done so, Mrs S still failed to meet the lending criteria. For this 
reason, I dont think Tescos error impacted the outcome of her loan application. So, I think 
the £25 offer Tesco made is a fair one to recognise the error they made.
I understand Mrs S may find this difficult accept as shes still paying a loan which has a 
higher monthly payment than the new loan she applied for. But, crucially, the existing loan 
was taken out in 2017. A lenders lending criteria is open to change, depending on their 
circumstances and that of the wider financial industry. So, Tesco werent obliged to approve 
the new loan because a previous loan had been accepted and it would be unfair for me to 
say this shows they did something wrong.And I have considered Mrs Ss comments about feeling trapped in her existing loan 
agreement. But in 2017, Mrs S agreed to the loan and its terms. This included the interest 
rate and its duration. So, at the point Mrs S received the loan she applied for, she was 
agreeing to make the monthly payment quoted for the length of time stated in that 
agreement. So, although I appreciate Mrs S has become aware of loans with a lower rate of 
interest, I cant agree that Tesco declining a new loan has forced Mrs S into an 
unreasonable position. Mrs S is still in the existing loan agreement she accepted in 2017. 
So, I dont think its fair to say this shows Tesco have done something wrong.
Its also worth noting that the lower rate of interest Mrs S was quoted wasnt a guarantee. In 
Tescos promotional information, it explains the interest rate offered to customers may be 
higher than the lowest rate, up to a rate of 25.5%, depending on a customers individual 
circumstances. So, its possible the new loan may have been at a higher rate of interest if it 
had been approved, meanings Mrs Ss monthly payments may have been higher. And in that 
situation, Mrs S wouldve been left financially worse off.
Im aware Tesco also offered an additional £25 to recognise failings when handling Mrs Ss 
complaint. Im unable to comment on this further as complaint handling is an unregulated 
activity and falls outside of our jurisdiction to investigate.
So, although I understand Mrs Ss disappointment and concerns, I dont think Tesco acted 
unfairly when declining the loan. So, I dont think Tesco need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint about Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman