DRN-3536562
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain they were given unsuitable advice to invest in Enterprise Investment 
Schemes (EIS) and Venture Capital Trusts (VCT) by St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc (SJP).
What happened
Mr and Mrs G were existing clients of SJP, when they received advice to invest in a range of 
EISs and VCTs between September 2018 and April 2020. These investments totalled 
approximately £850,000.
Following concerns with the performance of their investments and several issues regarding 
the actions and behaviour of their advisors, Mr and Mrs G complained to SJP in 2020. 
This service has already considered an initial complaint regarding most of these issues. 
However, a subsequent complaint was raised about the suitability of the advice to invest in 
the EISs and VCTs. Mr and Mrs G also said that information regarding the risks and charges 
relating to these investments hadnt been made clear and that a delay in investing funds had 
caused them a loss in regard to tax relief in the 2018/19 tax year. 
SJP responded to these complaint points in January 2022. They said they were satisfied the 
recommendations given met Mr and Mrs Gs objectives and were affordable and with 
sufficient diversification. They also believed Mr and Mrs G had sufficient cash reserves and 
capacity for loss. They felt the charges had been explained sufficiently and that no 
guarantee with regard to the immediacy of investment was given. 
Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy and the case was passed to one of our investigators for an 
independent review. He looked into it but felt the advice given was suitable for their 
circumstances and needs at the time. He also felt the documented evidence showed that the 
charges and possible delay in investing had been made clear. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt respond with any specific comments but they confirmed they didnt 
accept the view of our investigator and so the case has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focused on what I consider to be the pertinent points. That isnt meant as a discourtesy, 
it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Ive set out the key issues I think are 
important here. And Ive answered them below in turn. 
Suitability of the advice to invest into the EIS and VCT
As SJP were giving advice in 2018, 2019 and 2020, they had certain obligations towards Mr 
and Mrs G. This included making a suitable recommendation, based on Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances, objectives, investment experience and attitude to risk. The information 
supplied by SJP about their recommendation needed to be clear, fair and not misleading in 
order for Mr and Mrs G to make an informed decision. 
The conversations between SJP and Mr and Mrs G regarding the VCT and EIS began in 
2013 when they spoke to their adviser about how theyd be able to mitigate capital gains tax 
(CGT) and income tax (IT). The couple had a pre-existing relationship with their SJP adviser, 
so the adviser was already somewhat familiar with their circumstances, including investment 
experience and attitude to risk. 
I have been provided with copies of the fact finds and suitability letters from each of the 
recommendations. These show that Mr and Mrs G were 43 and 35 respectively, with a joint 
annual income of £335,000 and dividend income of a further £40,000. They held a range of 
investments including ISAs and unit trusts with a joint value of approximately £750,000. They 
had approximately £200,000 in cash and were recorded as having over £3,000,000 in other 
assets. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs Gs attitude to risk and investment experience prior to this point had been 
recorded as medium, from September 2018 they were recorded as being willing to take a 
higher risk in order to achieve the potential tax relief offered by the EIS and VCT. Prior to 
each investment they signed a specific declaration confirming they were aware of the higher 
risk and illiquid nature of the investments, that they might get less than they put in and that 
the legislation around the tax relief could change. 
They were advised to disinvest from their ISAs and UTs and make the following investments. 
£100,000 into an EIS in September 2018, £200,000 into a VCT December 2018, £150,000 
into an EIS in December 2018, £75,000 into a VCT in September 2019, £225,000 into an 
EIS in November 2019 and £125,000 into a VCT in April 2020. 
Having considered all of this, and their objectives of investing in the most tax efficient way 
and reducing their income tax liability. I havent seen enough to conclude that these 
recommendations were unsuitable. 
Mr and Mrs G have also said that they were guaranteed growth rates during the meetings 
with the advisors. They have said that the investments were mis-sold as they wouldnt have 
made them if they had known the growth rates given were not accurate. However, other than 
their testimony, I dont have anything to substantiate this. The product literature given at the 
time doesnt make any guarantee and the declarations given above which were signed, 
explained that they might make a loss. Based on this, there isnt enough for me to conclude 
that any guarantee was given and as the investigator explained previously, whilst it is clear 
the complaint was triggered by Mr and Mrs Gs unhappiness when reviewing performance, 
that isnt something I can comment on. 
SJP have offered Mr and Mrs G £200 as a gesture of goodwill and apology for the time it 
took them to respond to these concerns. I think thats fair in the circumstances and 
considering the impact it had. 
Disclosure of charges
Mr and Mrs G have also complained that these investments included additional charges that 
were not made clear to them. As well as the initial advice charges, these investments incurred an ongoing charge applied 
by the provider. Mr G has said this wasnt made clear to him and he has said he thought he 
was just paying the initial charge. However, the documentation I have been provided with 
appears to evidence the ongoing charges sufficiently. 
Each suitability and recommendation letter states the applicable total ongoing charge. In 
particular, the September 2018 letter stated, the new plan will have higher ongoing charges 
than your existing arrangements. 
I think SJP did enough to make these charges clear and prominent in the documentation. 
There was a responsibility on Mr and Mrs G to read this and query it if they had any 
concerns. 
Delays in investing the funds
Mr and Mrs G have also raised concerns that one of the EIS they invested into following a 
recommendation in December 2018, wasnt made until the 2019/20 tax year. They have said 
this had ramifications in regard to Mr Gs IT liability. 
However, I dont find SJP responsible for the time it took. The application and deposit of 
funds was made with the EIS provider in a timely manner. 
The suitability and recommendation letter that Mr and Mrs G were provided with, stated that 
due to the way in which EIS investments are structured, the money invested might not be 
invested immediately and this may delay the tax reliefs available. It can typically take 12  18
months to invest your subscription in underlying unquoted companies but it can take
longer depending on the business proposals available to the investment manager. 
The EIS brochure also stated, funds may be held with the Depositary for a target period of 
12 months before being allotted into Investee companies, but may be extended at the 
discretion of the Manager. There is no guarantee the shares will be allotted in the same tax 
year as the relevant Subscription Deadline.
Unfortunately, this is how EIS investments happen and there can be a delay. I know Mr G 
says this caused an increased liability, but I cant see anything from the information provided 
to me, to suggest that he wasnt told this might happen. 
In summary, having reviewed all the submitted evidence in line with Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances and needs at the time, I am satisfied the SJP recommendations were suitable 
and that the charges were made clear. I also dont hold SJP responsible for the time it took 
the EIS investments to qualify for the tax relief. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is the offer already made by St. James's 
Place Wealth Management Plc of £200 to put things right is fair. St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc should pay this to Mr and Mrs G if they havent already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Yoni SmithOmbudsman