DRN-3707923
The complaint
Mrs P, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that Phoenix Life 
Limited mis-sold her a life and critical illness policy. Mrs P is unhappy with the way it has 
calculated redress.
What happened
In 1995 Mrs P was advised by Phoenix to take out a whole of life policy providing a sum 
assured of around £63,000 which would pay out if she passed away or suffered from a 
specified critical illness. Mrs P surrendered the policy in 2018.
Mrs P complained that the policy was unsuitable for her as she was young, had no 
dependents and was saving for a house. Phoenix upheld Mrs Ps complaint as it felt that she 
ought to have been sold a fixed term policy instead to take her to retirement age. It 
calculated redress based on a 25-year level term policy covering life and critical illness for 
the same sum assured. It calculated the difference in premiums plus 8% interest less the 
surrender value. This showed Mrs P hadnt lost out financially.
Mrs Ps CMC said that the redress shouldve deducted the actual cost of cover, not the cost 
of a fixed term policy. Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that there 
was a need for critical illness cover and a fixed term policy taking Mrs P up to her planned 
retirement age wasnt unsuitable. She felt Phoenix had done enough to calculate redress 
and that this showed there wasnt a financial loss. Mrs Ps CMC disagreed and asked for an 
Ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator for broadly the same reasons so Im not 
upholding this complaint.
The point of sale documents show that Mrs P was married and wanted £100,000 of cover if 
she became critically ill or passed away. She already had over £36,000 of cover and 
Phoenix sold her a policy to cover the remainder - approximately £63,000. Mrs P was 
employed but didnt have savings, she was looking to save for a house. Mrs P says that she 
shouldnt have been advised to take out an investment when she wasnt financially stable.
Phoenix felt that the whole of life policy wasnt appropriate at the time and that a level term 
assurance wouldve been suitable and have offered redress on that basis. I think this is fair 
and reasonable. Its clear from the point of sale documents that Mrs P wanted cover, and 
having cover in place for critical illness was suitable for her circumstances as she had 
regular outgoings that she may not have been able to cover if she couldnt work due to a 
critical illness. I dont think that having life cover was unsuitable either as she was married at 
the time of the advice and had clearly set out that she wanted a total of £100,000 cover. But 
I agree that she didnt need this for the whole of her life. Mrs P set out that she planned to 
retire at 50 years old, at which point I dont think shed need the critical illness cover, so I 
think Phoenixs redress method to compare the cost of a 25 year level term plan was the 
right one.
I appreciate that Mrs Ps CMC wants the redress to be a refund of premiums less the actual 
cost of life cover. But given I think Mrs P wanted cover, and the level term plan wouldve 
been suitable at the time, then the redress Phoenix has calculated is fair and reasonable as 
it puts Mrs P in the position shed have been in had the advice been suitable.
Ive seen the calculations, which have also been sent to Mrs P when she originally 
complained, and this shows that Mrs P hasnt suffered a financial loss. So, theres nothing 
more for Phoenix to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman