DRN-3498958
The complaint
Mr H complains about a decision taken by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited
(MBFS) to charge him £581 for damage to the windscreen on the car he returned to it after
his hire purchase agreement in respect of that car came to an end.
What happened
Mr H entered into a hire purchase agreement with MBFS for the supply of a car on
14 March 2017.
Under the terms of the hire purchase agreement, everything else being equal, Mr H
undertook:
to pay a deposit to the supplying dealership
make a number of monthly payments to MBFS
return the car, at the end of the hire period, to MBFS and return it to MBFS in line
with its vehicle return standards
After Mr H returned the car, MBFS took the decision to seek £581 from him for damage to
the windscreen. MBFS submitted that the chip on the windscreen had started to crack and
wasnt repairable, so a replacement screen had to be installed. It also said that its vehicle
return standards state that:
scratches and cracks in glass or stone chips with signs of cracking will need to be repaired
and chips greater than 5mm are not acceptable.
On the other hand, Mr H says he understood that as long as any damage to the windscreen
was acceptable to an MOT inspector then there would be no charge in respect of that
damage. In coming to this view, Mr H pointed out that his hire purchase agreement states:
Glass  Acceptable  chips on windscreen, which are less than 5mm, providing they
do not obscure the drivers line of vision to a maximum of 2 per windscreen (MOT
standards).
and that the MOT inspection manual: cars and passenger vehicles states a possible test fail
would be:
Damage in windscreen zone A [in the swept area of the windscreen, 290 mm wide,
centred on the steering wheel] more than 10mm in diameter
Damage in the remainder of the windscreens swept area more than 40mm in
diameter
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that in all the
circumstances MBFS should write off the charge of £581, but it need do nothing further
(including compensating Mr H for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter might
have caused him).
MBFS responded to say that it didnt agree with the investigators view.
Mr H responded to say that he agreed with the investigators view that MBFS should have to
write off the sum of £581, but wondered whether he should be compensated for the distress
and inconvenience this whole matter had caused him, something that the investigator had
concluded wasnt appropriate.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in May 2022. In summary I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The agreement states:
When it is time to return your vehicle whether this is at the end of the period of hire 
or earlier (when requested to do so), you must return the vehicle in line with the 
Vehicle return Standards.
The Vehicle Return Standards are detailed below
Glass Acceptable
Chips on windscreen, which are less than 5mm, providing they do not 
obscure the drivers line of vision to a maximum of 2 per windscreen (MOT 
standards).
Headlamp lenses with minor chips, which do not detract from the overall
appearance of your Vehicle or affect the efficiency of the lamp.
Light scratches around the periphery of the windscreen.
Not Acceptable
Incompatible window etchings and non-factory fitted tinted glass.
All lamps must be operational, holes or cracks in the glass or plastic covers of
lamp units are not acceptable.
If you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle in
accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return Standards, 
you will have to pay our costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or 
the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle, as 
compensation.
The decision to repair the vehicle or not to repair the vehicle rests with [MBFS] and/or 
the retailer or manufacturer who will undertake the Vehicle Return Standard 
Inspection on our behalf.
A separate and standalone vehicle return standards booklet/document states:
Glass Acceptable
Chips on windscreen, which are less than 5mm, providing they do not 
obscure the drivers line of vision to a maximum of 2 per windscreen
Headlamp lenses with minor chips, which do not detract from the overall
appearance of your [vehicle] or affect the efficiency of the lamp
Light scratches around the periphery of the windscreenNot Acceptable
Scratches and cracks in glass or stone chips with signs of cracking will need 
to be repaired
Cracks or damage to the windscreen within the drivers line of sight
Chips greater than 5mm
Incompatible window etchings
All lamps must be operational, holes or cracks in the glass or plastic covers of
lamp units are not acceptable.
MBFS has provided our service with the inspection report carried out by its agent 
when the car was collected from Mr H. This report notes there is a chip to the front 
screen and this note is supported by a photograph and a video.
Ive looked at the photograph and video very carefully and Im satisfied these show 
there was indeed a chip to the windscreen that had started to crack. Im also satisfied 
that these show the chip/crack to be at the bottom left hand side of the windscreen 
(as viewed by the driver) and situated outside zone A [in the swept area of the 
windscreen, 290 mm wide, centred on the steering wheel].
Given the above I accept that if I was to find that MBFS could rely on the terms of its
separate and standalone vehicle return standards booklet/document then it might be
appropriate for it charge Mr H £581. But in the particular circumstances of this case I 
dont think MBFS can reasonably do so.
In my view it was entirely reasonable for Mr H to conclude that the vehicle return 
standards he was bound by werent MBFS standalone booklet/document terms 
(whether provided to Mr H or not), but the terms quoted on the face of the agreement 
which state (in summary):
you must return the vehicle in line with the Vehicle return Standards.
The Vehicle Return Standards are detailed below
Glass Acceptable
Chips on windscreen, which are less than 5mm, providing they do not 
obscure the drivers line of vision to a maximum of 2 per windscreen (MOT 
standards).
Ive considered the vehicle return standards on the face of the agreement to decide 
whether they allow, in the particular circumstances of this case, for MBFS to charge 
Mr H the sum of £581 that it did.
In my view the term Chips on windscreen, which are less than 5mm, providing they 
do not obscure the drivers line of vision to a maximum of 2 per windscreen (MOT 
standards) is ambiguous and can be interpreted in a number of ways, including 
Mr Hs interpretation that if chips/cracks to the windscreen wouldnt result in the car 
failing a MOT test then they are deemed acceptable and not chargeable.In law and as a matter of what is fair and reasonable, the party who didnt draft the 
contract (agreement) should get the benefit of the most favourable interpretation of 
any ambiguous term. This is because the party who drafted the contract (agreement) 
had the opportunity to make the terms clear and the other party shouldnt lose out 
because of its failure to do so.
In this case, MBFS drafted the contract (agreement) and included what I consider to 
be an ambiguous term, because it can be interpreted in a number of ways, including 
Mr Hs interpretation. And it therefore follows that I think as part of the fair and 
reasonable outcome to his complaint Mr H should get the benefit of his (more 
favourable) interpretation. And this means I dont think it was fair for MBFS to have 
charged Mr H the £581 that it did.
Because Ive found that it was unfair for MBFS to have charged Mr H £581 for the
windscreen damage it follows that I also find that it would be unfair for any adverse
information in this respect to be recorded with third party credit reference agencies. 
So, if MBFS has recorded such information with third party credit reference agencies 
then the same should be removed.
As well as looking for the charge of £581 to be waived/written off Mr H also submits 
that he should be compensated for the loss of income he has suffered in dealing with 
this matter. But I dont think it would be appropriate for me to direct MBFS to pay 
compensation in this respect. Like the investigator I think Mr H could have 
reasonably dealt with this matter in his own time. I would also add that complaining to 
a business, or our service, is always going to result in some distress and 
inconvenience being caused.
Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I would add that it isnt my role to fine or 
punish MBFS, or to direct it to carry out a wider review of its practices, processes and 
(complaint) cases, this is the role of the regulator. My role is simply to consider this 
case/complaint on its own facts and merits and to decide what, if anything, MBFS 
should have to do to put things right in respect of it.
I then went on to outline what MBFS should do, which was waive the £581 charge it has 
been looking to recover from Mr H and remove any adverse information recorded with third 
party credit reference agencies in respect of the same.
Mr H responded to my provisional decision to say that he had nothing further to add and 
MBFS responded to say that it accepted it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr H has confirmed he has nothing further to add and MBFS has confirmed that it 
accepts my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and I 
now confirm them as final.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited must:waive the £581 charge it has been looking to recover from Mr H
remove any adverse information recorded with third party credit reference
agencies in respect of the above sum of £581.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman