DRN-3842920
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) acted irresponsibly by continuing 
to apply changes to her account when she was in financial difficulty.  
What happened
Miss M complained to BOS about the excessive charges she was incurring on her overdraft 
when she was in financial difficulty. BOS didnt uphold the complaint. And as Miss M was 
dis-satisfied she referred the complaint to our service.
Miss Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that BOS ought 
to have realised that Miss M was experiencing financial difficulty by May 2020 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. BOS 
disagreed  it says it offered support during the pandemic and that Miss Ms income was 
sufficient to reduce the overdraft with different account management or spending.
So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BOS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that BOS acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from May 2020. By 
this point, it ought to have been clear that Miss M was in no position to sustainably repay 
what she owed within a reasonable period of time. By this point, Miss M was hardcore 
borrowing. In other, words she hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended 
period of time. BOSs own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency 
borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
Miss M was already clearly struggling to reduce or manage her overdraft limit with BOS. A 
cursory look at her statements show that even after Miss Ms salary was paid she would still 
be overdrawn and that once she had paid her bills, she would be right back at the top of her 
limit within days. I accept there was some discretionary spending on the account but overall 
the vast majority of spending was on essential bills and day to day living. I also accept that 
BOS offered some help for three months in 2020 in that the first £500 of Miss Ms overdraft 
of £1,550 was interest free. But this help was temporary and didnt nearly go far enough. 
So I think that Miss Ms overdraft usage should have prompted BOS to have realised that 
Miss M wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on 
the same terms. As BOS didnt react to Miss Ms overdraft usage and instead continued 
charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Miss M ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that BOS 
didnt treat Miss M fairly and she lost out because of what BOS did wrong. And this means 
that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ms complaint for BOS to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ms current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from May 2020 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made BOS should contact Miss M to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Ms credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft on May 2020.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then BOS 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ms credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires BOS to take off tax from this interest. BOS must give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint. Bank of Scotland plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman