DRN-4158481
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that ClearBank Limited made errors when 
opening the companys business bank account which led to the wrong company name being 
registered.
What happened
ClearBank partners with Tide to provide accounts for its customers. In the events in this 
complaint, all the communication and branding was in Tides name, so in the wording of my 
decision Ill refer to Tide where it seems more natural. In doing that, I dont intend anything 
material  for the avoidance of any doubt, the only respondent in this complaint is 
ClearBank. 
T applied for a Tide business bank account. As part of the account opening, the bank offered 
a company registration service. T used that service, but shortly afterwards complained that 
the bank had registered the wrong business name with Companies House.
Tide said that it wasnt responsible for any error. However, it acknowledged that it should 
have given more information in its response to Ts complaint, so it apologised and offered 
£50 to resolve the matter. T wasnt satisfied and referred its complaint to us.
Our investigator concluded that the bank didnt need to do anything further. He said the 
available evidence showed that Tide wouldnt have been able to input the name of the 
business or to amend it. Information about the new business would have been given by the 
customer, and the bank would only have forwarded the information to Companies House.
T didnt agree with the investigators conclusion. Its director said the bank hadnt explained 
why the wrong name had been registered  it was the name of a previous company which 
hed recently changed. He thought the onus was on Tide to prove that hed specifically 
requested that name.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
I can see on Companies House records that six weeks after the company was registered by 
the Tide process, the company name was changed to T. So Ive no reason to doubt that the 
name first registered was one that the company didnt want. But whatever had gone wrong, I 
dont think the evidence shows it was Tides fault.
Ive seen details of Tides online application process, including screenshots, and they 
support Tides argument that the bank wouldnt be the one to input the company name. 
Moreover, theres a stage in the process where the company name intended for registration 
is checked against the names of existing companies  to avoid attempting to register a 
duplicate  and the name is clearly shown on screen to the customer. Theres also a stage 
at the end of the application during which all the information from the previous stages is 
shown to the customer for review and confirmation.
Ts director has said Tide needs to show evidence that he specifically requested the 
disputed company name during the application process. Tide says evidence showing that 
specific stage of Ts online application isnt available, though it has provided the information 
record that it holds from the application, which shows the same company name as it was 
registered in the Tide process. But in any event, Im satisfied that it would have been the 
customer, not Tide, that would have provided the company name, and that Tide would 
simply have passed the name through in its registration process. Im also satisfied that the 
company name that Tide intended to use for registration would have been clear to the 
customer during the online application.
For these reasons, I dont find that Tide made any error that caused the wrong company 
name to be registered.
Tide has already made an offer to pay £50 to T for shortcomings in its response to the 
complaint. T should contact the bank direct if it now wishes to accept this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require ClearBank Limited to do anything further to settle this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman