DRN-3515802
The complaint
Mr F has complained about Park's of Hamilton (Holdings) Limited. He feels it mis-sold him 
a Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Parks includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr F bought a car with finance from Parks and bought a GAP insurance policy alongside it. 
Over three years later Mr Fs car was deemed a total loss by his motor insurer and Mr F 
made a claim under the GAP policy.
The GAP insurance policy he had would only look to pay the difference between the 
settlement the motor insurer paid and any outstanding finance on the car. But Mr F expected 
it to pay the difference between his motor insurers settlement (the settlement) for the loss of 
his car and the invoice price hed paid for it originally. 
This was because he thought that his policy covered him for return to invoice (RTI)  which 
pays the difference between the settlement and the invoice price  for the whole of his 
finance agreement as opposed to the 36 months it provided cover for. 
So, Mr F complained to Parks and then this Service that it had mis-sold the policy. One of 
our investigators looked into it. She didn't think Parks had done anything wrong and hadnt 
mis-sold the policy. 
As Mr F didn't agree the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Although it is clear that Mr F thought that he would be paid the difference between the 
settlement and the invoice price of his car (RTI) his policy says it will only settle claims on 
this basis within the first 36 months of the policy being taken out. At the time of his claim Mr 
F was beyond this point. And so, the policy says that in these circumstances it would pay the 
difference between the settlement and the outstanding finance. So, when the underwriter 
looked into Mr Fs claim it didnt look to settle the claim on a RTI basis. 
But Mr F maintains that Parks told him the policy would cover the difference between the 
settlement and the invoice price for the full length of his finance agreement. Mr F feels that 
the staff at Parks were very clear about this verbally to him and suggested that a staff 
member who was part of the sales process left because of the way they had handled such 
matters.
There is a record of the demands and needs that Parks went through when Mr F bought the 
policy. This shows that the policy was suitable for his needs and the policy summary and 
documentation is clear that RTI will only be paid for the first 36 months of the policy. 
I know Mr F feels that this wasnt the case and his memory of events is different. Mr F has 
said a family member was with him at the time of sale who would support his position - but 
that wouldnt be classed as independent evidence as they are related to him. Mr F has also 
questioned the professionalism of the member of staff who sold him the policy and 
suggested that they were let go by Parks for this reason. But I havent seen anything to 
corroborate this position and Parks have explained why the staff member left the 
organisation and it has nothing to do with the individuals professionalism. 
Clearly I wasnt there at the time of the sale and so I cant be sure what was or wasnt said at 
the time. And so, the strongest evidence I have is the policy documents from the time of sale 
that make it clear that RTI cover will only be provided for 36 months. Indeed, Mr F has 
signed the relevant parts of the documents to say that he was aware of this. So, I think it is 
unlikely that Parks would have deliberately misrepresented what the policy benefits were, 
when I think they are clear in the paperwork. 
I know Mr F has said that he felt pressured at the time of sale and didnt read the relevant 
paperwork before signing. And he said that he wasnt given the paperwork to take home and 
digest before he took the policy out as Parks have suggested. But if Mr F felt pressured in 
anyway I would have expected him to check the policy documentation when he got home 
and cancelled the policy within the cooling off period if it wasnt suitable for his needs. So, if 
Mr F had expected the policy to pay the difference between the settlement and invoice price 
for the full term of his finance agreement then he could have cancelled the policy. But he 
didn't do so.
Given all of this, and the fact that Mr F was sold the policy he wanted (RTI policy), although 
the benefits of this aspect of the policy were limited to the first 36 months, I cant say that 
Parks treated Mr F unfairly here. Ive seen no evidence, beyond Mr Fs recollection, that it 
told him that the RTI cover would extend beyond the 36-month period and Parks have 
explained that they do not sell such a policy in any event. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman