DRN-3325736
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim they made on a
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C insure their home with Ageas. The property was damaged following a burst 
pipe and they made a claim on the policy. Ageas accepted that the claim was covered.
Mr and Mrs C made a complaint to Ageas. They were unhappy with the way Ageas had 
handled the claim, saying that there were unnecessary delays and correspondence went 
unanswered. They were also unhappy with the amounts offered by Ageas to settle the claim. 
They had received an estimate from a local contractor which was significantly higher than 
the amount offered by Ageas to settle the claim. 
When Ageas rejected their complaint, Mr and Mrs C referred it to our service. Our 
investigator thought that Ageas had acted fairly. Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and requested an 
ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
On reviewing the complaint, I was minded to partially uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I 
also thought that while Ageas settlement offer was fair, I did so for different reasons to our 
investigator. I therefore issued a provisional decision. In this, I said:
From my review of their complaint, I think its fair to say that Mr and Mrs Cs complaint can 
be divided into two sections  the settlement offer and Ageas conduct during the claim. Ill 
look at these separately.
The settlement offer
Ageas made an offer of £10,390.86 to settle the claim. This amount was calculated as 
£6,390.86 for the amount its contractors would charge to carry out the repairs, and £4,000 
for additional works to flooring which were subsequently identified as being required.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs policy say that We may offer to repair, replace 
or rebuild any loss or damage through one of our approved suppliers, however, should you 
prefer to use your own supplier you may, providing you agree this with us beforehand. 
Should you use your own supplier, any payment made would not normally exceed the 
discounted amount we would have paid our approved supplier.
Im satisfied that the evidence suggests that Mr and Mrs C were given the option of using 
Ageas contractors to carry out the repairs, but indicated their preference for a contractor 
theyd sourced to do the works.
Ageas has advised us that the £6,390.86 which was offered for the originally scoped works 
was the amount it would have paid its contractors to carry these out. An itemised scope of 
works had been prepared and the amount offered was based on the costs from that, less the 
discount that Ageas receives from its contractors (and with allowances that wouldnt be 
usually covered due to alternative accommodation being offered to Mr and Mrs C for the 
duration of the repairs removed). Ageas will likely have the benefit of rates not usually 
available to private customers with its contractors.
The £4,000 additionally offered was the maximum it was suggested that additional works 
related to the flooring would cost, as the estimated amount was between £3,000 and £4,000. 
Im aware that Mr and Mrs C dispute the accuracy of the scope of works relied on in 
reaching the £6,390.86 figure. I understand why this would be the case, as the additional 
works to the flooring werent included within this. But I havent seen any alternative scope of 
works which suggests that the works required and amounts quoted for that work are 
inaccurate. While additional works to the flooring were identified as being needed, the report 
which concluded that these were required didnt identify any other issues with the original 
scope of works.
Mr and Mrs C have provided a quotation from their preferred contractor totalling in excess of 
£25,000 for the works. However, this quotation doesnt list the individual cost of each piece 
of work unlike the scope of works relied on by Ageas (it lists in general terms the work 
required in each room and gives a cost per room for this) so Im not persuaded that this 
quotation is a more accurate representation of the work required (and cost of it) than what 
Ageas has referred to when it calculated its settlement offer. Similarly, a letter from a 
surveyor engaged by Mr and Mrs C suggests the repairs would cost in excess of £20,000 
but theres no breakdown or indication of how that figure has been reached.
For these reasons, Im persuaded that its fair for Ageas to base its settlement on the scope 
of works. Theres nothing which persuades me that it significantly underestimates the work 
required or costs of that work. Ageas has also demonstrated how it reached the figure it 
offered for these works by reference to the amount it would pay its contractors for those 
works. The policy terms and conditions allow it to limit its settlement to what it would pay its 
own contractors to carry out the works, and I think its fair to rely on this condition where its 
offered for its contractors to carry out the works but Mr and Mrs C have indicated their 
preference to utilise their own.
I also think that the £4,000 additionally offered for the flooring works is fair. While no detailed 
breakdown has been provided of these costs, the amount estimated for these additional 
repairs was between £3,000 and £4,000. Its offered the maximum estimated, rather than 
seeking to establish an exact figure which it would be entitled to do, in order to progress the 
claim.
I conclude that Ageas offer of £10,390.86 to settle the claim was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Ageas conduct during the claim
There are a number of aspects of the way the claim was handled that Mr and Mrs C are 
unhappy about and complained about to Ageas. They were dissatisfied with the use of 
representatives who had to travel long distances to attend their address for appointments, 
delays to the claim and the level of communication from Ageas during the claim.
In respect of the use of representatives, Im aware that in order to attend appointments at Mr 
and Mrs Cs property, the appointed representative had to travel a significant distance. What 
isnt clear is what detriment Mr and Mrs C have suffered because of this. The 
representatives costs are met by Ageas and wouldnt have any effect on cover for the claim 
or the amounts offered in settlement of it.Im also conscious that this claim has been ongoing for a significant period and, to date, 
hasnt been resolved. The burst pipe occurred in late 2019 and I dont underestimate the 
disruption and distress the damage and ongoing claim has caused to Mr and Mrs C, 
especially considering the Covid-19 related lockdowns and restrictions which have occurred 
during this time.
Unfortunately, the nature of insurance claims made for damage to property, particularly 
those involving escapes of water, is that they will often take a significant amount of time to 
resolve. For example, the extent of the damage needs to be established and repairs need to 
be assessed. Theres often a need to engage various representatives to carry out the 
necessary enquiries and assessments. Such matters are an accepted element of a claim, 
and we wouldnt usually say that an insurer had acted unreasonably in making such 
assessments. Insurers are obliged to handle claims promptly and effectively. Where this 
doesnt happen, wed say delays that arise are avoidable and expect insurers to put things 
right.
Looking at the evidence available to me, Im not persuaded that there are avoidable delays 
here which can be attributed to Ageas (or its appointed representatives). It has taken time to 
obtain the relevant reports and assessments, but it seems to me that these were not 
unnecessarily delayed and Ageas was seeking to progress the claim. Theres also been an 
ongoing dispute with Mr and Mrs C about the settlement and resolving the claim but I do 
think that within this time Ageas was seeking to move the claim forward.
There is one area however where I do agree that Ageas could have done better. There has 
been a lot of contact between Mr and Mrs C and Ageas, as would be expected with a claim 
which has been ongoing for this length of time. It does seem to me that the overwhelming 
majority of this has been instigated by Mr and Mrs C, and them calling and emailing Ageas. I 
also think that there were occasions when this contact didnt result in a response from Ageas 
as it should have done, resulting in Mr and Mrs C making further contact in an attempt to find 
out what was happening on the claim.
While I agree that Ageas was progressing the claim without unavoidable delays, I think the 
contact could have been managed better. It shouldnt have been reliant on Mr and Mrs C 
chasing Ageas for updates. I can see that between November 2019 and January 2020, Mr 
and Mrs C sent at least 10 emails to Ageas, seeking updates or chasing responses, and 
havent seen any evidence that these were properly responded to.
While Mr and Mrs C were contacting Ageas regularly, I think that some of this could have 
been avoided by agreeing that when there was an update on the claim, Ageas would contact 
Mr and Mrs C to advise of this, or in the alternative Ageas would update on a regular, agreed 
basis with what had happened since the last contact. It was evident that Mr and Mrs C were 
(entirely reasonably) seeking regular updates and so to minimise the need for them to chase 
Ageas, I think measures could have been put in place to manage their contact.
I think this would have had a detrimental effect on Mr and Mrs C. They were in a position 
where their home was damaged and no date was known for when repairs would be carried 
out, and werent getting pro-active updates from Ageas. I dont think its surprising that they 
were unhappy with the way Ageas was progressing the claim in those circumstances. They 
were also having to make multiple phone calls and send multiple emails to Ageas which 
could, I think, have been avoided if Ageas had been more pro-active in managing the 
contact on the claim. I think its reasonable to say that these factors have led Mr and Mrs C 
to conclude that the claim was being unnecessarily delayed.
To recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs C by the lack of 
communication from Ageas, Im minded to ask Ageas to pay £250 compensation to them.The responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs C didnt respond to the provisional decision. In Ageas response, it said it 
disagreed with my findings that the complaint should be partially upheld and compensation 
paid for the issues around communication with Mr and Mrs C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has been provided, or any comment has been made on my reasoning 
for why the settlement offered by Ageas was fair. Ive no reason to change either my findings 
or reasons on that point. I conclude that Ageas made a fair settlement offer to Mr and Mrs C 
for the repairs.
Turning to the matter of communication with Mr and Mrs C, Im grateful for the further points 
raised by Ageas, as well as the timeline detailing contact between its representative and Mr 
and Mrs C. Ageas makes the point that Mr and Mrs C were contacting it on average every 
five days and so the likelihood of there being updates in that time were minimal. I understand 
this and also that Ageas considers Mr and Mrs Cs contact to have bordered on the 
excessive. 
As Ive said before, I dont think that the claim was unnecessarily delayed and the 
information provided by Ageas supports this. My reasons why I thought the service received 
by Mr and Mrs C could have been better were around how the regular communication could 
have been managed. Ageas response to my provisional decision appears to accept this in 
part, noting that agreeing a frequency of updates was a potential learning and training point. 
That doesnt change what happened here though. While there was very regular contact 
coming from Mr and Mrs C to find out what was happening with the claim, I can understand 
why this was the case. They wanted to repair the damage to their property. In those 
circumstances, that Mr and Mrs C would contact Ageas to find out what was happening is 
not surprising, and when they werent satisfied with the responses they were receiving, or 
having any response to queries, its also unsurprising that the frequency of contact 
increased. 
Theres no doubt in my opinion that Ageas could have managed this better by informing Mr 
and Mrs C that they would provide an update on a set schedule. If Mr and Mrs C had then 
continued to contact Ageas outside of that schedule, Id be less inclined to say Ageas did 
anything wrong. By not managing the contact, and Mr and Mrs Cs expectations, better, I 
think Mr and Mrs C have been inconvenienced by Ageas. I conclude that this element of the 
complaint should still be upheld. For the reasons previously given, its my opinion that Ageas 
should pay £250 compensation to recognise this.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. In order to put things right, Ageas 
Insurance Limited must pay Mr and Mrs C £250 compensation. It must pay this amount 
within 28 days of us telling it that Mr and Mrs C accept our decision. If it doesnt, then it must 
pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per year from that date until the date of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman