DRN-1818610
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
October 2004. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in October 2004. The policy was 
added to Mr Ms credit card account when he applied for the card in person. The policy cost 
78p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold.
I think BOS made Mr M aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. Ive 
seen a copy of the application form and note that the option of PPI was checked and the 
application form was signed by Mr M.
Ive noted that the application form was pre-populated, but on the basis that this was an 
advised sale, and was conducted in a branch, face to face, I think its reasonable to assume 
that a discussion took place and that the form, including Mr Ms personal details such as his 
mothers maiden name; the name of his employer; and his salary are typed because the 
form was completed on-screen before being printed off for Mr M to look over and sign. 
And as the PPI premiums wouldve appeared on Mr Ms monthly credit card statements, had 
the PPI been added to his account without either his knowledge or his consent, I wouldve 
expected him to query the PPI in the first few months of the policy starting in 2004.
BOS recommended the PPI to Mr M, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, he 
told us he was employed and in good health, so he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Mr M chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it wouldve been useful for him. I say this because Mr M told us he only had statutory sick pay in the event that he was off work due to sickness or an accident, 
but this policy would have paid out for up to 12 months. And he says he had no other means; 
savings or insurance, which he couldve used if he wasnt working.
Ive thought about everything Mr M and his representative have said, but these points dont 
change my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman