DRN-1423023
 
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with how My Claim Solved Ltd (MCS) dealt with a claim for a mis-sold 
investment policy. 
What happened
In July 2018, Mrs C instructed MCS to make a claim for a mis-sold investment product. The 
claim was successful and MCS invoiced for their fees at the agreed rate of 30% plus VAT.
Mrs C was unhappy with how the claim was dealt with  MCS kept requesting information 
from her, didnt tell her what was going on, or answer her emails. MCS agreed they couldve 
done better, and offered to reduce their fees to 25% plus VAT. Mrs C says that when she 
first contacted MCS, she was told their fee was 20% plus VAT. So she thought MCS should 
reduce their fee to 15% plus VAT.
Our investigator thought MCS couldve done better. Mrs C lived in France, but MCS used 
phone and post as their main form of communication with her, when email wouldve been 
more appropriate and wouldve reduced delays. But she found Mrs C had originally agreed 
to a fee of 30% plus VAT, and she thought MCS were reasonable in initially offering to 
reduce their fee to 25% plus VAT because of the errors theyd identified. 
But she also found that MCS continued to try and contact Mrs C by phone, even when shed 
said she needed to be contacted by email. And MCS gave Mrs C contradictory information 
about how shed receive her refund, so Mrs C was left to do a lot of chasing and following up 
herself. Because of this the investigator thought MCS should further reduce their fee to 20% 
including VAT (£548.13).
MCS agreed with the investigators recommended resolution but Mrs C didnt. She said she 
originally agreed to a fee of 24% (20% plus VAT) so the 5% reduction offered by MCS 
shouldve taken this down to 19% initially. Shes also concerned that MCS have multiple 
copies of her identification documents, and they continue to break the law, by giving out my 
very private and personal details (including my bank details) to unknown people.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Mrs C says that she was originally quoted a fee of 20% plus VAT. In July 2018 the Claims 
Management Regulator introduced a fee cap of 20% plus VAT, and I dont doubt that MCS 
told Mrs C this. But the fee cap only applies to claims for mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI). As Mrs Cs claim was for a mis-sold investment product  an endowment 
policy, this fee cap wouldnt apply to her claim.Ive seen a copy of the Terms and Conditions Mrs C signed on 20 July 2018. Under the 
section headed Compensation and payment of Fees, this explained that MCS charge a fee 
of 20% plus VAT for PPI claims. But it also explained their fee was 30% plus VAT for All 
other products [including] Investments [and] Endowments.
The Terms and Conditions also clearly stated, just above where Mrs C signed, that these 
are our standard terms and conditions upon which we intend to rely. For your own benefit 
and protection you should read these terms carefully before signing them. If you do not 
understand any point please ask for further information.
Mrs C was making a claim for a mis-sold endowment policy, and the Terms and Conditions 
were clear that the fee for this type of claim was 30% plus VAT. So, even if Mrs C was under 
the impression from the original phone call that the fee would be 20% plus VAT, by signing 
the Terms and Conditions she was agreeing to a variation and to pay a fee of 30% plus VAT. 
So I cant say MCS did anything wrong by initially calculating their fee on this basis.
But Im in agreement that MCS couldve done better. Mrs C lived in France and MCSs case 
notes show their preferred method of contact was to phone Mrs C. The case notes also 
show most calls were unsuccessful, with comments like no option for [voicemail] and 
number would not connect as usual. So, even if Mrs C hadnt asked them to only contact 
her by email, I wouldve expected MCS to have used this method of contact given that 
calling Mrs C wasnt working.
I cant hold MCS responsible for the endowment provider asking for documentation to prove 
Mrs Cs identity on more than one occasion, especially as the address on Mrs Cs drivers 
licence didnt match her current address. But they are responsible for keeping Mrs C up to 
date, and for responding to her queries in a timely manner, neither of which they did. So I 
agree with the investigator that a further fee reduction to 20% including VAT (£548.13) is 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ive also noted Mrs C concerns on the personal information MCS hold about her, and that 
theyve given this to unknown people. Its not disputed that MCS sent a letter about her 
claim to Mrs Cs old UK address in error. But this was returned to MCS by the current 
occupants, and I havent seen that Mrs Cs personal data has been compromised or used by 
someone else as a result. So I think the additional reduction in fees also compensates for 
this mistake.
Under data protection regulations MCS are only allowed to keep Mrs Cs data on file if they 
have a reason to do so, and Mrs C has the right to ask them to delete any data they hold. If 
she were to ask them to do so, Id expect MCS to comply with her request in line with the 
current regulations in force.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. My Claim Solved Ltd must 
reduce their fees to 20% including VAT (£548.13).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman