DRN-1649974
 
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the compensation Grattan Plc (Grattan) has offered to settle his 
complaint related to PPI sold alongside a catalogue account.
What happened
Grattan wrote to Mr C in April 2019 and said he may be owed some compensation for 
excess commission related to a PPI policy on his catalogue account and to let the business 
know if he wanted this to be looked into. 
Mr C did contact Grattan and in May 2019 it wrote to him offering compensation of £94.47 
after tax. It said this was for the excess commission Mr C had paid as part of his PPI 
premiums from 6 April 2007 onwards. 
Mr C was not happy with Grattans response as he said he had paid more for his PPI and 
been paying premiums for at least 2 years before April 2007. So he brought his complaint to 
this service.  
Our adjudicator said that Grattan only had to refund any excess commission over 50% of the 
premiums that was paid after April 2007, as that was when the rules regulating the PPI first 
applied to the type of account with PPI that Mr C had. So, they thought the offer Grattan had 
made was fair. 
Mr C remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C had a catalogue account, known as a restricted credit account, with Grattan. Grattan 
wrote to Mr C in April 2019 saying that although it had not previously upheld a complaint he 
had made about the PPI being mis-sold, it was able to consider if he was owed any excess 
commission related to the PPI premiums.
Mr C did contact Grattan in response to that letter and in May 2019 it wrote to him again 
offering him some compensation. It explained in that letter how it had calculated the 
compensation by working out the difference between the actual balance and what it would 
have been without the excess PPI commission. It was repaying the cost of the excess 
commission part of the PPI and also 8% simple interest on the amounts Mr C was out of 
pocket as a result of being out of pocket for these excess commission amounts. 
That letter in May 2019 said it was Grattans final response on the matter and if Mr C was 
unhappy with the offer he could bring his complaint to this service.Mr C did make a number of attempts to take up the issues he had with Grattan directly and 
only brought his complaint to this service when he did receive a response from Grattan in 
August 2019. That response said it was not reviewing its decision and he still could bring his 
complaint to this service within 6 months of the date of the May 2019 letter.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service at that point. He told us he was unhappy with the 
compensation offered. He believes his PPI complaint that the policy was mis-sold should be 
upheld and he should get back all the costs of the PPI. Mr C also says the calculation should 
go back before April 2007 as he had his account before that date. 
Mr C was additionally unhappy with what he considered was poor service by Grattan in not 
responding to his correspondence after May 2019. He thought he should also get additional 
compensation for this.
Mr C opened his account and took out the PPI in March 2000. It seems Mr C did complain it 
was mis-sold in 2011 and Grattan at that time responded saying it did not think anything was 
wrong with the sale. It also explained the rules enforced by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) were not applicable to this type of account but it still felt it had not mis-sold the PPI 
and Mr C had made claims on the policy.
At that time in 2011 Mr C did not attempt to bring his complaint to this service. But Grattan 
had explained that we would not have been able to look at it as it was  not covered by the 
FCA rules because of the dates.
Mr Cs PPI policy was sold to him before 14 January 2005. This is the date when all 
businesses selling insurance became regulated and from that date they had to follow 
specific rules on how they sold insurance. The ombudsman can't generally look into 
complaints about PPI policies sold before this date. 
There are some limited circumstances where we may be able to consider complaints like 
this. For example, when PPI was sold with a financial product that was regulated at the time 
- like a personal loan. 
But when Mr C bought his policy in 2000, Grattan was not regulated as an insurance 
provider at that time.  Also, in Mr Cs case the policy was sold with a catalogue shopping 
account - and the sale of this type of financial product was not itself regulated until 6 April 
2007. So, we cannot look at the mis-sale in 2000 as it is not within the rules that applied both 
to sales of insurance products or the type of financial product he took out. 
From April 2007 we can look into whether Grattan treated Mr C unfairly about commission 
on the PPI, but only from this date onwards as this is when catalogue credit became 
regulated.
Grattan has told us that on some occasions, the amount of commission Mr C paid on his 
policy was more than half of what he paid for the monthly PPI premium. And because 
Grattan didn't tell him about that high level of commission that was unfair. So Grattan has 
refunded any commission taken on or after 6 April 2007 that was more than half the cost of 
Mr Cs PPI policy.
I think what Grattan has calculated is a fair amount of compensation. 
In its offer letter Grattan said it would use the compensation to set against the balance on Mr 
Cs account. And as the compensation was less than the balance on the account Mr C did 
not receive anything directly. Mr C isnt happy with this.Grattan owed Mr C a debt for the compensation, and he had a balance on the same account 
the PPI related to, so also owed Grattan a debt. In this type of circumstance, it is fair that the 
compensation is paid to the account that the PPI was directly related to. 
I have also considered Mr Cs issues about the service he received whilst Grattan was 
dealing with his complaint. Mr C is unhappy Grattan did not respond to his correspondence 
after the offer letter he received in May 2019.
That offer letter did state this was Grattans final response to the matter and it outlined how 
he could bring his complaint to this service if he was unhappy. But Mr C  kept chasing 
Grattan for a further response and information about the offer. Eventually Grattan did 
respond to Mr C in August 2019 but merely to say it had given its final response and again 
reaffirmed if he wasnt happy he could come to this service.
Mr C could have brought his issues to this service as soon as he received Grattans offer 
letter in May 2019. That is what the information he was given said he should do. I dont know 
why Mr C chose to keep writing to Grattan for a further response. But there was nothing it 
could add to its findings. Many businesses do not provide continued correspondence after it 
has indicated its final response has been provided.
I dont think Grattan did anything wrong and it was Mr Cs choice to continue chasing 
Grattan. Overall, I dont think what Grattan did caused Mr C any more inconvenience than 
any consumer taking a complaint. And it was only because of his choices that he sent 
correspondence to Grattan that was not responded to.
So I am not directing Grattan to pay any additional compensation for trouble and upset. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, Im not upholding this complaint as I think what 
Grattan Plc has offered to settle the complaint about excess commission and how it paid the 
compensation is fair.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman