DRN-4037053
The complaint
Mr W and Ms W complain about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) who 
declined their claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Following a named storm, Mr W and Ms W contacted LV to make a claim. It sent a surveyor 
to assess the damage caused. There was a delay in LV sending out the surveyor and a 
further delay before the surveyor conducted the survey. The delay at this point was around 
six weeks from the point of the initial report to LV. Mr W and Ms W said that this delay 
caused further damage to the roof. 
LV surveyor wrote a report in which he concluded that the damage that he had seen was 
caused not by the storm but by wear and tear. He said that the render had de-bonded and 
there was cracking seen as well as age related wear and tear. And as wear and tear wasnt 
covered under the policy, he advised LV to decline the claim. 
Mr W and Ms W didnt accept LVs surveyors conclusions, as they said that they had a pre-
purchase survey (PPS) conducted around eight months earlier, and although there had been 
some light horizontal cracking seen on the roof, this wasnt a cause of concern and didnt 
indicate wear and tear. They also said that the storm had caused devasting damage 
throughout the area in which they lived, and it was the storm that had caused the damage to 
the roof. They also asked LV to consider their PPS. 
LV did not consider Mr W and Ms W, PPS, before arriving at its decision to decline the claim. 
So, Mr W and Ms W raised a complaint. In its final response, it maintained its decision to 
decline the claim on the basis that there had been wear and tear. And as this was a policy 
exclusion, the claim wasnt covered. It accepted there had been avoidable delays and as 
such offered compensation of £200, for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr W and Ms W were given their referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
that Mr W and Ms W PPS mentioned that there had been light horizontal cracking on the 
roof and although it mightnt have been in the same area, it could indicate that there was a 
more widespread issue with the roof. With regard to the LVs surveyors report, it concluded 
that there was age related wear and tear. So, her view was that LV were fair to decline the 
claim on the basis of the policy exclusion. 
She also said that LV had caused lengthy delays in assessing the claim. So, it was fair and 
reasonable that it offer compensation of £200, for those errors. 
LV accepted the view Mr W and Ms W did not. They said: 
You contend that the damage to the rendering is the result of wear and tear. You 
have interpreted that the pre-purchase report states clearly that there was routine 
maintenance work to be done which we failed to do.
You assess that £200 is a reasonable amount for a failure in customer services' 
standard.
They asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr W and Ms W, but I hope 
my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
The main issues of this complaint are whether LV fairly declined the claim regarding the roof, 
under the policy exclusions of wear and tear. And whether the amount of compensation 
offered for the poor service issues, was fair.
Our approach when assessing complaints where storms are said to be the cause of the 
damage, is that we take into consideration three questions, when determining whether an 
event can be classed as a storm. These are: 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If any of the answers to the above questions are no, then an insurer can reasonably decline 
a claim. 
Both parties agree that there were storm conditions around the time of the event, namely 
strong winds. So, the first answer to the first question is yes.  
Turning to the second question is the damage consistent with damage a storm typically 
causes. Mr W and Ms W said that the damage caused to the roof was due to the storm. 
They provided me with a pre-purchase survey (PPS) which they had obtained around eight 
months before the storm, when they bought the property. They said that the PPS did not 
indicate that there were any wear and tear issues. 
I asked Mr W and Ms W for further information regarding further evidence they might have 
about the cracking that was identified as an issue in the LVs surveyors report. Specifically, 
the following questions:
Do you have any further evidence from an expert who may have inspected the property 
after the storm (as opposed to the pre-purchase survey (PPS) which was written several 
months before the storm)? 
In your PPS it states that there is light horizontal cracking  do you have any expert 
evidence that indicates what caused the cracking? Do you have any expert evidence that 
shows that the cracking wasnt due to wear and tear? 
As cracking was seen around eight months before the storm, do you have any expert 
evidence that indicates how long it would take for concrete to de-bond? That is, is the 
cracking a pre-cursor/indicator of wear and tear?Mr W and Ms W didnt respond to the questions, despite allowing them extra time if they 
needed to provide a response. 
LV was also asked for its comments on the following:
Please could LV give their reason (s) for not considering Mr W and Ms Ws pre-purchase 
survey (PPS)? Could LV also comment on why its surveyor discounted the PPS?
In the PPS it states that there is light horizontal cracking to the parapet wall, can LV say 
what was the cause of this? Does LV have any expert evidence to support any comments 
about this? 
Is there any evidence of how long it takes for concrete to de-bond from a structure such as 
this? 
LVs surveyor said that there are signs of age/wear and tear, but the surveyor hasnt said 
what those signs were (save that there was some cracking), can LV be more specific in what 
it said were the signs of wear and tear?
It said that the roof itself showed no damage and that Mr W and Ms Ws PPS indicated that 
there were cracks in the rendering in that area. It said that it had reviewed street images of 
the property as far back as 2009 and the render appeared the same. 
It relied on its expert surveyors report who had concluded that the render had de-bonded 
and that had been present for some time, with no signs of any previous repair. 
LV further said that the PPS found cracks and that over the years with the general 
weathering of the roof, cracks or damage will gradually occur. Once water gets in these 
cracks particularly in winter it will freeze and expand causing the cracks to get bigger and let 
water under the render causing it to de-bond. This process will take some time but will 
accelerate once the water is allowed to get into these cracks. There is no evidence this 
damage is due to a one-off event of storm and the damage isnt consistent with a well-
maintained roof. This damage is consistent with general weathering over a considerable 
period of time. The PPS survey tends to back this up.
LV also relied upon a published report that detailed causes of cracking and it confirmed that 
cracking was indicative of wear and tear and in particular one cause of render de-bonding. 
I have reviewed the PPS and I agree. In it there is mention of cracking and albeit the cracks 
arent in the exact place where the damage occurred, Im satisfied that this indicated that 
there was a wider issue with the render. I say this in light of the evidence that has been 
provided by both parties. Further, I note that the PPS clearly indicated that it will not 
comment on any issues regarding wear and tear. 
Consequently, I do think that the damage was due to wear and tear and not as a result of a 
one-off incident such as a storm. I also think that the damage isnt consistent with the kind of 
damage that a storm would make. Accordingly, the answer to the second question is no.  
And the answer to question three, were the storm conditions the main cause of damage is 
no.
Based on the evidence, I think that LV was fair to decline the claim on the policy exclusion of 
wear and tear. LV has agreed to pay Mr W and Ms W £200 for the trouble and upset caused, 
regarding the poor service issues they experienced, which I think is fair. I think that LV has 
paid this, if not, Mr W and Ms W ought to ask LV to pay this. 
I do understand that this decision is likely to be a disappointment for Mr W and Ms W, but I 
cant reasonably ask LV to do anything further to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman