DRN-2175255
The complaint
Mr T says Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, irresponsibly 
lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about three loans MoneyBoat provided to Mr T between August 2016 to 
May 2018. A summary of Mr Ts borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidLoan Type Amount Repayment
1 11/08/2016 27/10/2017 Payday £250.00 £110.74
2 12/01/2018 27/04/2018 Instalment £400.00 £143.84
3 23/05/2018 23/08/2018 Payday £350.00 £174.56
In our most recent review of the complaint the adjudicator felt that Mr Ts complaint should 
be upheld and that MoneyBoat didnt lend to Mr T responsibly. MoneyBoat didnt respond to 
our second assessment so the complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Money Boat was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
MoneyBoat says it carried out an affordability check before allowing Mr T to take out any of 
these loans  which involved it requesting information about Mr Ts income and expenditure. 
But Ive also seen that MoneyBoat carried out a credit report check before lending to Mr T. 
Ive looked closely at this credit check MoneyBoat carried out for Mr Ts first loan. This report 
showed that Mr T had a number of outstanding loans at the time of applying for loan 1. He 
had one loan recorded as an unsecured loan, one as a home credit account and one as an 
advance against his pay. The report also showed that in the two months prior to taking out 
loan 1 he had taken out 3 other short-term loans. While this information may not have led 
MoneyBoat to draw the conclusion that this loan wouldnt be affordable for Mr T, I think this 
information ought to have led MoneyBoat to carry out further checks of Mr Ts 
circumstances. 
So I think the information MoneyBoat discovered about Mr T from his credit check shouldve 
led them to carry out a more thorough and proportional check of her financial situation. I say 
this because the information gained from his credit report suggests Mr T was regularly taking 
out loans and may not have been managing his finances well. So, a reasonable lender ought 
to have looked into his situation further before agreeing to lend her loan 1 or any other loans. 
Had MoneyBoat have completed a full check of Mr Ts financial position it wouldve seen that 
Mr T had other short-term loans and was using short-term loans to balance his financial 
situation and was potentially becoming reliant on this type of expensive credit. It is also an 
indication Mr T was getting further and further in debt. 
In addition, Mr Ts bank statements show that Mr T was regularly gambling large sums of 
money per month. This is likely to mean that Mr T may have had an issue with repaying in a
sustainable fashion within the meaning of CONC. Gambling is highly likely to lead to debt. 
And with a debt situation arising out of, or contributed to by, gambling, then a properly 
carried out affordability assessment was likely to lead a responsible lender to conclude that a 
loan was not affordable for an applicant in that situation.
So, I dont think MoneyBoat shouldve lent Mr T loan 1 or any further loans on this basis. 
Therefore, Im upholding the complaint about loans 1, 2 and 3 as I dont think MoneyBoat shouldve provided Mr T with any of these loans. MoneyBoat should put things right as set 
out below.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr T paid on loans 1, 2 and 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 1, 2 and 3 from Mr Ts credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. Evergreen Finance London 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman