DRN-2016175
The complaint
Mr Ms unhappy with St Andrews Insurance Plcs decision to decline his claim made on a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr Ms employment ended in January 2020 and he notified St Andrews that he wanted to 
claim on the policy for unemployment benefits. 
St Andrews considered the claim but decided it wasnt valid. It said that he turned 65 during 
the 30-day waiting period. As such, the policy had ended in line with the terms and 
conditions before the claim became payable.
Unhappy with St Andrews decision, Mr M complained to us. Our adjudicator considered the 
complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. They felt St Andrews decision was fair 
in the circumstances. 
Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators findings. Among other things, he said the termination 
of the policy based on his age contravened the Equality Act 2010 (the Act) and that many 
people chose to continue to work beyond the age of 65. More recently, he argued contract 
law meant contracts could become void if a change in laws or regulations occurred after an 
agreement was reached if the formerly legal activities described within the agreement 
became illegal.
The complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
No insurance policy will cover each and every event that might arise or provide cover 
indefinitely. The terms and conditions of the policy will set out the scope of the cover, what is 
and isnt covered and when the cover will end. In this case, I note the policy terms explained 
it would only cover unemployment occurring during the Period of Cover, defined as the 
period from the Commencement Date to the Termination Date. A claim for unemployment 
benefits could only continue until the earliest of a number of specified dates, one of which 
was the Termination Date. Thats defined as: 
the earliest of the following dates:-
i. the date of Your death; or
ii. the date you reach the age of 65; or
iii. the date You permanently retire from work
iv. the date on which a premium due has remained unpaid by You after allowing 
a 25 day period of grace for premium payment; or
v.the date that You are no longer party to a Mortgage.
Paragraph 8 of the policys general provisions states:
We may terminate insurance cover under this Policy by giving not less than 90 days 
written notice to You Our termination will not affect Our liability for events occurring 
during the Period of Cover which may give rise to a claim.   
Its not in dispute that Mr M lost his job during the period of cover. Or that he turned 65 
during the 30-day waiting period  and before any benefits became payable. 
However, Mr M argues St Andrews shouldnt be allowed to terminate the policy on the basis 
of his age since that would contravene the Act. Ive reviewed the provisions of the Act very 
carefully and note that a service-provider must not discriminate against a person by not 
providing the service or as to the terms on which the service is provided, by terminating the 
provision of the service or by subjecting that person to any other detriment (s.29).
Schedule 3 of the Act sets out the exceptions to section 29 in the provision of services. More 
specifically, part 5 of the schedule  Insurance and other financial services  states theres 
no contravention of section 29 in relation to age discrimination by doing anything in 
connection with the provision of a financial service (para. 20A). 
With that in mind Im satisfied on balance that the actions of St Andrews dont amount to 
age discrimination for the purposes of the Act.
Paragraph 20A goes on to refer to an assessment of risk requiring that, where such an 
assessment has been carried out, its done by reference to information which is relevant to 
the assessment and from a source on which its reasonable to rely.
That said, Ive seen no evidence to suggest that St Andrews conducted an assessment of 
risk in providing the policy to Mr M. I gather the policy would have simply been provided on 
standard terms, with the premium set in accordance with the monthly benefit required, and 
that it was open for Mr M to either accept or reject them. Nor can I see that St Andrews was 
required to conduct an assessment of risk in the circumstances.
Since I dont believe the activities described within the policy to be illegal, as Mr M puts it, it 
follows that I dont consider that the contract is void, as hes suggested. Not that voiding the 
contract would be especially helpful to him in getting his claim paid in any event. Thats 
because I understand the normal remedy for a void contract is rescission, through which 
hed be put back in the position he was in before entering the contract. 
It also follows that I dont agree with Mr M that  since it cant rely on the termination date as 
defined  St Andrews has chosen to terminate the policy unilaterally in accordance with 
paragraph 8 of the general provisions. He argues such reliance would mean St Andrews 
would remain liable for his claim as it arose from an event occurring during the period of 
cover. For the reasons already given, I believe St Andrews was entitled to rely on the 
termination date as defined, which means there was no need for it to rely on the clause 
allowing unilateral termination.  As such, and having taken everything into account, Im satisfied that it was fair for 
St Andrews to terminate Mr Ms policy and decline his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman