DRN-3111759
Complaint
Mr A has complained that HSBC Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) unfairly continued 
applying charges to his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought First Direct should have 
realised that Mr As overdraft had become unsustainable for him by December 2018 and so 
it shouldnt have added the charges it did from this point onwards. So it needed to refund all 
the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr As account from this point. First Direct 
disagreed with our adjudicator. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out here.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think First Direct acted unfairly when it 
continued adding interest and associated fees and charges to Mr As overdraft from        
December 2018. By this point, it was evident Mr As overdraft had become unsustainable for 
him and continuing to provide it was likely to cause significant adverse consequences. 
Mr As statements leading up to this period clearly show he was taking out a significant 
number of payday loans in an attempt to try and make ends meet and mask the fact that he 
was gambling heavily. Ive seen First Directs argument that Mr A could have repaid the 
overdraft with better account management. This may well be the case. But it ought to have 
been apparent to First Direct that this better account management wasnt happening and 
was that it was more and more unlikely to happen going forward. 
Ive also seen First Directs argument that financial difficulties is defined when a person is 
unable to make repayment. Im not sure where First Direct has taken this definition from and 
I accept that a lender may no longer prepared to take a credit risk in relation to an existing 
borrower once they start missing payments. But I would refer First Direct to the regulators 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). And in particular section 1.3 which contains 
guidance on financial difficulty and more specifically what the regulator considers to be 
potential indicators that a borrower may be experiencing financial difficulty. A cursory look at 
this section shows that financial difficulty is far wider than simply being unable to make 
payments to an agreement in the way First Direct appears to be suggesting is the case. 
Overall by December 2018, I think that First Direct ought to have realised that Mr A was 
unlikely to be able to sustainably repay his overdraft and should have stopped providing it on 
the same terms. It should have instead treated Mr A with forbearance, even if this meant 
taking corrective action in relation to the facility.
All of this means that First Direct should have realised Mr A wasnt using his overdraft as 
intended and as the account conduct had suggested it had become unsustainable shouldnt 
have continued offering it on the same terms. As First Direct didnt react to Mr As overdraft 
and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr A ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft at a time when 
he was already experiencing difficulty. So I think that Mr A lost out because of what First 
Direct did wrong and that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr As complaint for First Direct to put things right by:
Reworking Mr As current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from December 2018 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made First Direct should contact Mr A to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If First Direct considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Mr As credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started 
the process of taking corrective action on the account from December 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr A along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then First 
Direct should remove any adverse information from Mr As credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires First Direct to take off tax from this interest. First Direct 
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr As complaint. HSBC Bank Plc (trading as 
First Direct) should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman