DRN-2719883
The complaint
The representatives of the estate of the late Mrs B complain about a Guaranteed Over 50s 
plan taken out by Mrs B in 2002. The policy was administered by Aviva Life and Pensions 
UK Limited (Aviva) and was sold by one of their predecessor schemes. 
The representatives are unhappy that Mrs B paid considerably more in premiums to the 
policy than the sum assured. They also feel that Aviva acted irresponsibly when Mrs B took 
the policy out.
What happened
The policy was sold with a monthly premium of £6. It had a sum assured of £510 but 
approximately £1,300 was paid in premiums. The representatives were unhappy with this 
and didnt feel that Mrs B had capacity when the policy was taken out. 
However, our investigator didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. He explained that the 
nature of this type of insurance contract was such that it was common for more to be paid in 
premiums than the sum assured, which was set when the policy was taken out. But he also 
noted that Aviva was on risk to pay much more than the premiums paid in the unfortunate 
event that the policyholder died early in the policys term. 
He highlighted that the policy wasnt sold on an advised basis. So, Avivas responsibility had 
been limited to providing information that was clear and not misleading, so Mrs B could 
make an informed decision about the suitability of the policy for her needs. 
Our investigator also didnt feel that Aviva had acted irresponsibly when Mrs B took the 
policy out. Whilst the representatives have maintained that Mrs B did not have sufficient 
capacity when taking the policy out, he said that Aviva had no reason to know capacity may 
have been an issue.
The representatives didnt accept the investigators view. They remained of the opinion that it 
was unlikely that if Mrs B had understood how the policy might work, she would have taken it 
out. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has been referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I understand the concerns Mrs Bs representatives have about the policy. On the face of it 
paying significantly more into a policy than was paid out feels unfair and not a situation     
Mrs B would have been likely to have wanted. But as the investigator noted, this is the way 
this type of insurance operates. The insurers can be on risk from the outset of the policy. 
Which means that even if a small number of premiums are paid into the policy the full claim 
benefit might have to be paid out  the opposite of what has happened in this case.
The plan was taken out after Mrs B responded to a mailing and returned a completed 
application form. Aviva did not advise Mrs B to take the plan out so are therefore not 
responsible for its suitability to her needs at the time. 
However, there was a requirement on them in regard to the information it provided to Mrs B. 
Aviva isnt able to provide me with a copy of the application or product literature that was 
then sent to Mrs B. However, they have given me a copy of what these documents would 
have looked like and made me aware that their system shows they were sent to Mrs B a few 
days after receipt of her application form. I havent seen anything to suggest that these 
werent sent, or anything to suggest she didnt receive them. 
I have reviewed the documents and I am satisfied that Mrs B should have been aware of the 
key features of the plan as well as the relevant terms and conditions. This includes the cost 
of the premium and what it might pay out. 
Mrs Bs representatives have also said that Mrs B did not have the capacity to make a 
decision such as taking this plan out. However, it would not be fair to hold this against Aviva 
if they werent aware of it. The plan was taken out without any face to face meetings and I 
havent seen anything to suggest Aviva should have been aware of any ill health for Mrs B. 
So, in all the circumstances and while I recognise the representatives will be very 
disappointed, Im unable to conclude that Aviva has acted incorrectly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman