DRN-2512037
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly declined its 
application for a new account. This meant T couldnt go on to apply for a Bounce Back Loan.
 
Ts director, Mr L, brings the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
T wanted to apply for a Bounce Back Loan. For it to do so, because it wasnt a customer of 
HSBC, T first had to apply for either a business current account or a Bounce Back Loan 
feeder account. T applied for a feeder account. These accounts are used solely to draw 
down the loan funds and transfer them onward.
The application was declined, so Mr L complained about the decision. He said T was being 
prevented from accessing the support it needed. In its final response, HSBC said it had 
declined Ts application in line with its account opening criteria, and its decision was in line 
with current policy. 
Mr L remained unhappy, so he referred Ts complaint to our service. He said he thought 
HSBC had declined Ts application based on his personal circumstances, and he didnt think 
that was fair.
 
An investigator here considered what had happened, but he didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong. In summary, he said:
Lenders arent obliged to offer a Bounce Back Loan to new customers such as T. 
HSBC was one of few banks to do so. 
Under the Scheme, HSBC is entitled to decide the basis upon which it offers 
Bounce Back Loans to new customers.
Requiring applicants to open an account first allows anti-money laundering and 
Know Your Customer checks to be completed, in line with HSBCs legal and 
regulatory obligations and as required under the Scheme. The checks that would be 
made were set out in the application.
HSBC could assess new account applications against its own criteria, and Ts had 
been assessed fairly. There was nothing to suggest the criteria had been changed or 
amended because of the pandemic.  
Mr L disagreed with the investigator. He still felt it was unfair Ts application had been 
declined. Mr L said the situation isnt normal, and HSBC shouldnt follow its usual account 
opening procedure because properly allow for specific circumstances.
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mr L at the outset that I note his strength of feeling, and Im sorry to hear 
about the impact this matter has had on him and T. But while I know it will disappoint him, I 
dont think HSBC has done anything wrong. Ill explain why. 
T was a new customer so  like any new customer  HSBC required it to open an account 
before it could apply for a Bounce Back Loan. And I think thats reasonable. HSBC isnt 
obliged to offer Bounce Back Loans to new customers at all. And the Scheme allows HSBC 
the discretion to decide how it accepts applications.
 
Further, by following an account opening process first, HSBC can complete anti-money 
laundering and Know Your Customer checks. These checks are an important legal and 
regulatory requirement, which are necessary under the Scheme rules. 
Ive looked to see that HSBC treated Ts feeder account application as it would one from any 
other new customer. From what Ive seen, theres nothing which indicates HSBCs account 
opening criteria has been amended  or become more restrictive  as a result of the 
pandemic. Rather, HSBC has shown that it carried out its usual account opening process 
when it handled Ts application. On that basis, Im satisfied it treated T fairly and not any 
differently to another new customer. And so, as Ts application didnt meet the criteria, I dont 
think HSBC was wrong to decline it.
 
I appreciate that Mr L thinks HSBCs decision to follow its usual process is unhelpful at a 
difficult and uncertain time. And I note he doesnt think its fair for the bank to have factored 
in any of his personal and historic financial issues. But as HSBC can decide how it accepts 
applications from new customers, I cant say its acted unfairly in following its usual account 
opening process the feeder account  including applying its credit-scoring requirements. And 
broadly speaking, its up to HSBC to determine its procedures and criteria  and I dont think 
there is anything inherently unfair or unreasonable in it considering the creditworthiness of a 
companys director.
I know Mr L will be frustrated by what Ive said. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think HSBC has done anything wrong in how it dealt with Ts feeder account application. So I 
dont require it to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman