DRN-4153106
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C were partners in a business partnership, which Ill refer to as P. They are 
unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) consider them personally liable for 
the Bounce Back Loan (BBL) that they took for the benefit of P.
What happened
In June 2020, P successfully applied to NatWest for a £35,000 BBL and received the loan 
funds shortly thereafter. The terms of the BBL included that P would need to begin making 
payments towards the loan in July 2021. But P had ceased trading by that time and couldnt 
make the required payments. Mr and Mrs C werent happy that NatWest continued to hold 
them personally liable to repay the BBL, meaning that they had to repay the loan even 
though P was no longer trading  especially as NatWest had on one occasion told them that 
this wouldnt be the case. So, they raised a complaint.
NatWest responded to Mr and Mrs C and confirmed that the terms of the BBL included that 
the members of P would be considered personally liable to repay the BBL if Ps business 
was no longer trading  as was the case in this instance. And so, they didnt feel that theyd 
acted unfairly by pursuing Mr and Mrs C for the outstanding BBL balance as they had.
NatWest did acknowledge that, on one occasion, one of its staff members had incorrectly 
explained that Mr and Mrs C wouldnt be held personally responsible for the loan. NatWest 
apologised to Mr and Mrs C for this and offered to pay £25 as compensation for any trouble 
or inconvenience this provision of incorrect information may have caused. Mr and Mrs C 
werent satisfied with NatWests response, so they referred their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the response to Mr and 
Mrs Cs complaint that NatWest had issued already represented a fair and reasonable 
resolution to what had happened. Mr and Mrs C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that NatWest have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration.
I also note that Mr and Mrs C have provided several submissions to this service regarding 
their complaint. Id like to thank Mr and Mrs C for these submissions, and I hope they doesnt 
consider it a discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with this services 
role as an informal dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr and Mrs C note that I havent addressed a specific point theyve raised, 
it shouldnt be taken that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read and 
considered all the submissions provided by both Mr and Mrs C and NatWest. Rather, it 
should be taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address 
it directly in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C have explained that they feel they werent properly advised by NatWest that 
they could be held personally liable for a BBL if P, their business, wasnt able to pay the loan 
instalments. But the sale of the BBL wasnt conducted on an advised basis, which means 
that NatWest didnt provide any formal advice to Mr and Mrs C as to whether they should 
apply for a BBL or not. 
Instead, the sale of the BBL was conducted on a non-advised basis, wherein NatWest 
provided Mr and Mrs C with information about the BBL, at which time it was then the 
responsibility of Mr and Mrs C to ensure they understood the nature of the BBL product and 
the terms of the loan agreement before committing to it. As such, while I accept that Mr and 
Mrs C may have been made aware of the possibility of taking a BBL by their NatWest 
relationship manger, it was then for them to ensure they understood the terms of the BBL  
including the terms surrounding liability  before making the decision to apply for it. 
Importantly, the terms of the BBL do include that Mr and Mrs C  as the business partners 
who comprised the business partnership of P  can be held personally liable for the balance 
of Ps BBL in the event of P ceasing trading. And Im satisfied that these terms were 
available for Mr and Mrs C to review before they agreed to the BBL on Ps behalf.
Indeed, its a feature of business partnerships that the partners of a business partnership 
can be held personally liable for the debts of their business partnership after that partnership 
has ceased trading. This is distinct from limited companies, where no such continuing 
personal liability exists. So, it was always going to be the case that Mr and Mrs C could be 
still held personally liable for the balance of Ps BBL after P ceased trading. 
Mr and Mrs C have explained that despite the non-advised status of the sale, they still feel 
that NatWest should have done more to explain the potential consequences of taking the 
BBL to them, especially given the tumultuous and stressful time surrounding the emergence 
of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, when the BBL application was made. 
But the BBL scheme was set up by the UK Government as a direct response to the 
emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic. And because of this the scheme had a unique 
application process whereby loan providers such as NatWest werent expected to conduct 
affordability checks and instead were expected to accept the self-declaration of an applicant 
that they did meet the criteria to be eligible to receive a BBL. 
This unique application process was put in place because it was (correctly) anticipated that a 
large number of BBLs would be applied for in a very short period of time, and to therefore 
allow loan providers to process applications quickly so that applicant businesses received 
BBL funds without delay. And I feel that this further demonstrates that the onus was firmly on 
the applicant to ensure that they understood the nature of the BBL before applying for it.
I also note that P was seeking to increase its overdraft borrowing at the time the BBL was 
applied for and that the BBL funds were used to repay Ps overdraft facility. This means that 
if P hadnt taken the BBL, it would still be being pursued by NatWest for its overdraft balance  which Mr and Mrs C, as Ps partners, would also still be considered personally liable to 
repay, and which would have accrued interest and charges at higher rates than the BBL.
So, regarding how NatWest administered Ps BBL application and in how they consider Mr 
and Mrs C to be personally liable for the outstanding BBL debt, Im satisfied that NatWest 
havent acted unfairly  and so I wont be upholding these aspects of Ps complaint.
Finally, NatWest have accepted that one of its staff members incorrectly indicated that Mr 
and Mrs C wouldnt be held personally liable for the BBL balance. I consider this provision of 
incorrect information to be separate to the other aspects of Ps complaint discussed above. 
This is because I dont feel that this mistake made by NatWests staff member does or 
should have any bearing on the liability of Mr and Mrs C for the outstanding BBL balance.
NatWest have apologised to Mr and Mrs C for the provision of incorrect information and 
offered to make a payment of £25 to P as compensation for any trouble or inconvenience the 
mistake may have caused. This seems reasonable to me  given that, as explained above, 
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs C should fairly be considered personally liable for the 
outstanding balance, regardless of whether a provision of incorrect information about this 
matter occurred or not  and I feel that £25 is a fair amount regarding the provision of the 
incorrect information and given that it isnt in regard to any other aspect of Ps complaint.
As such, while I will be upholding this complaint in Ps favour, Ill only be doing so to formally 
instruct NatWest to make the £25 compensation payment theyve already agreed to make, 
should it be the case that P formally accept my decision here. 
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr and Mrs C were wanting here, but I trust they will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
NatWest must make a payment of £25 to P.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc on 
the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman