DRN-2816083
The complaint
Mr B, on behalf O, complains about the decision of HDI Global Specialty SE to decline Os 
claim for losses following business interruption as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
What happened
O had a commercial insurance policy, underwritten by HDI as joint insurer. Much of the 
correspondence on the issues relevant to this complaint were between Mr B and the 
administrator of the policy. But for the sake of simplicity, Ive just referred to HDI in this 
decision. 
Os policy provided a number of areas of cover, including a section for losses as a result of 
business interruption. When O had to close in March 2020, in line with the Governments 
measures to control the spread of COVID-19, Mr B, on behalf of O, made a claim under this 
section of the policy.
HDI declined the claim. It said COVID-19 was not one of the diseases listed as being 
covered by the Murder, suicide or disease extension to the business interruption section of 
Os policy. 
Mr B was unhappy with this saying that as COVID-19 was unknown at the time it would be 
unreasonable to expect it to be listed within the policy. Mr B also thought the subclause in 
this extension relation to closure as a result of defects in the drains or other sanitary 
arrangements at your premises should provide cover in the circumstances of the claim. 
When HDI didnt change its stance, Mr B brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator empathised with the position O found itself in through no fault of its own. But 
he agreed with HDI that the policy did not provide cover in the circumstances of the claim. 
He said that COVID-19 hadnt caused damage which had resulted in an interruption to Os 
business. And that the disease cover in the Murder, suicide or disease extension was 
based on a specific list of illnesses. He concluded that, as COVID-19 was not included in this 
list, HDI acted fairly and reasonably when declining Cs claim here. Finally, the investigator 
did not think that the term other sanitary arrangements could be reasonably understood as 
referring to social distancing measures and that, even if it could, an inability to socially 
distance was not a defect at Cs premises. 
Mr B remained unsatisfied and this case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on O, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the investigators.
I understand that O closed its business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
lockdown. The nature of its business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy O took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Os policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Os business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Os claim. And I think 
HDI acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Os claim under this area of cover.
Mr B has based his arguments around the Murder, suicide or disease extension to the 
business interruption cover. This says:
We will pay you for interruption of or interference with the business during the 
indemnity period following
1. the occurrence of any of the following specified human infectious or human 
contagious diseases suffered by any person at your premises or within a one mile 
radius of it acute encephalitis, acute poliomyelitis, anthrax, chicken pox, cholera, 
diphtheria, dysentery, legionellosis, legionnaires disease, leprosy, leptospirosis, 
malaria, measles, meningococcal infection, mumps, opthalmia neonatorum, 
paratyphoid fever, plague, rabies, rubella, scarlet fever, smallpox, tetanus, 
tuberculosis, typhoid fever, viral hepatitis, whooping cough and yellow fever.
2. murder or suicide at your premises
3. injury or illness sustained by any person arising from poisoning directly caused by 
the consumption of food or drink provided at your premises
4. vermin or pests in your premises that prevents the use of the buildings by order 
of a public authority
5. the closing of the whole or part of your premises by order of a competent public 
authority as a result of a defect in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at your 
premises.

There wasnt a murder or suicide, poisoning, or vermin or pests at Os premises which 
caused the interruption of Os business. But Mr B has raised arguments that O should be 
covered under either subclause 1 or 5. I shall deal with each of these in turn. 
The disease subclause
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this part of the policy would have provided O 
with cover for the circumstances of its claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt one of the 
diseases listed in the definition.When reaching this finding Im mindful of Mr Bs comments that that COVID-19 is a new 
disease that no-one had the foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for 
HDI to include it in the policy at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes 
anything. Thats because I dont think HDI intended to, or suggested they would, provide 
cover for all diseases. HDI deliberately chose to limit the cover provided by reference to a 
static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover for a claim relating to COVID-19. But this is 
not the type of policy O has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy O has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in subclause 1. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the 
policy does not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont 
think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside 
of the defined list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Os claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Os policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied HDIs decision to decline the claim under 
this subclause was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and 
reasonable.
The sanitary arrangements subclause
It seems to me that the heart of the issue is whether or not an inability to enforce social 
distancing could be said to qualify as a defect in the sanitary arrangements at Os premises.
To reach a fair and reasonable outcome Ive considered, amongst other things, relevant 
case law, in particular the case of Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas 
Corporate Brokers Ltd & Anor [2021] IEHC 263. This case took place in the Irish courts, but 
in the absence of a comparable English case, I feel it is useful to consider the points made in 
this case in terms of considering how an English court might decide this point of contractual 
interpretation. The judge in this case considered policy wording similar to that in Os policy 
and considered, in part, the meaning of the term other sanitary arrangements, when used in 
context similar to Os complaint.
The judge in this case said at paragraph 164:
 it is essential to consider the meaning of a contractual provision as of the date 
when the contract was concluded. The question, accordingly, is whether a 
reasonable person, in the position of the parties at the time the contract was 
concluded, would understand that the reference to a defect in the other sanitary 
arrangements at the premises was intended to capture an inability to ensure that 
appropriate social distancing was maintained.This reflects the position of English Law that the meaning of a contract should be interpreted 
objectively, by considering what would be understood by a reasonable person, with the 
relevant background knowledge, at the time the contract was entered. 
Os policy was entered in July 2019, a number of months before COVID-19 existed. And, 
whilst social distancing has been practiced throughout history as a means of preventing the 
spread of disease, until recently, it was not in the UK. So, I am not persuaded that a 
reasonable person reading the particular wording of Os policy in July 2019 would have 
considered subclause 5 to refer to an inability to enforce social distancing at Os premises.
Additionally, it isnt clear what Mr B considers the defect at Os premises actually is. As the 
judge in Brushfield said at paragraph 166, A defect inherently involves some element of 
deficiency or fault. O is a coffee shop and no evidence has been provided to suggest there 
was any deficiency or fault in its sanitary arrangements. Im not persuaded that the normal 
operation of a business can be called a defect, and certainly not a defect specific to Os 
premises which led to its closure.   
Mr B has said that the public order to close was to specifically limit the spread of disease 
and virus at Os premises and these circumstances are covered by the term other sanitary 
arrangements. However, I havent been provided with any evidence to suggest it was the 
circumstances at Os premises in particular that led to the Governments decision to 
introduce the restrictions it did in March 2020. For these reasons, I consider HDIs decision 
to not to meet Os claim under this section was fair and reasonable. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means HDI should have met Os claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for Mr B, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt 
offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman