DRN-1572968
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has not properly refunded the fees he paid for a 
PBA, which it has agreed it mis-sold. 
What happened
In October 2006 Mr W opened a Barclays bank account. This was fee free. 
On January 2007 this was changed to an Additions Plus account, which cost £14.50 each 
month. This had benefits including worldwide travel insurance and an overdraft that was fee-
free up to £250 and with a preferential interest rate. 
The bank records show that Mr W had been given an overdraft limit of £250, from when he 
took his first account in October 2006.
In 2017 Barclays changed its Additions Plus accounts into normal bank accounts. These 
were free of fees. But instead customers could take separate packs which offered different 
types of insurance benefit. Barclays wrote to Mr W, and said it would automatically set up 
two insurance packs for Mr Ws account. These would give roughly the same benefits as he 
had had in his Additions Plus account. Overall this would cost £1.50 more each month than 
he was paying for the Additions Plus account. If he didnt want to take these extras, he 
needed to contact Barclays. 
When Mr W first complained to Barclays about the Additions Plus account, he said he had 
not been told he could have fee free banking when he first started banking with Barclays. He 
says he didnt understand English and so didnt understand the paperwork he had to sign. 
Barclays decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint, although it didnt say on what grounds  that 
is it didnt say in what way specifically it had decided the PBA had been mis-sold. It refunded 
the fees Mr W had paid, with interest. But it didnt refund the fees from when the Additions 
Plus account was replaced in 2017 with the ordinary account plus insurance packs. It said 
this was because it had written to Mr W in September 2016 and January 2017, and so he 
should have known he could now have free banking. 
Mr W says its unreasonable not to refund his fees after the 2017 change. He says he 
wouldnt have understood the letters that told him about the change, and so he continued to 
suffer the effects of the original mis-sale.
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr W didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive thought about whether its reasonable for Barclays to limit its compensation to the point 
when the Additions Plus account ended in 2017. 
I dont have strong evidence that Mr Ws English wasnt good enough by 2017 to understand 
the letters Barclays sent  nor do I have evidence that Barclays should have known hed 
have difficulty understanding the letters. 
By 2017, Mr W had lived and worked in the UK for over ten years; so I think its likely that, by 
then, hed have had enough English to understand the letters  or at least to have 
understood them enough to get help finding out more. So I think its more likely than not that, 
in 2017, Mr W would have understood he could have a fee-free account. 
The evidence is that Barclays sent the letters to Mr Ws correct address. So I think Barclays 
acted reasonably and did enough to inform Mr W of the changes, and to make him aware he 
could have free banking. Not being given that choice was one of Mr Ws key complaint 
points when he first contacted Barclays over his concerns that the account had been mis-
sold.
As Ive said, I dont know specifically why Barclays decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. But I 
cant see a reason why the information given in 2016 and 2017 wasnt enough to put right 
what might have gone wrong in 2007. 
So Ive decided it wouldnt be fair to make Barclays refund fees for the period after the end of 
the Additions Plus account. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman