DRN-4450263
The complaint
Ms F has complained about how her property insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has 
handled her water leak claim made in January 2022.
What happened
Ms Fs home suffered a water leak in January 2022. Over the following months Ms F wasnt 
happy about how the claim was progressing. She made a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about this. My Ombudsman colleague issued a final decision dated 
9 February 2023, considering what had happened up until 2 December 2022 and issuing 
some directions to UKI regarding the claim going forward. As Ms F remained unhappy in the 
period after that considered by my colleague, she made a further complaint  which is the 
complaint Im currently considering.
In a final response letter of 19 April 2023 UKI accepted there had been some failings by it in 
the period after 2 December 2022. It paid £500 compensation to Ms F. Ms F told our 
Investigator that she was worried about a number of repair aspects. But also, about how UKI 
was handling her accommodation arrangements. Our Investigator felt Ms Fs complaint 
should be upheld. But when Ms F wasnt happy regarding compensation and UKI didnt 
agree with the way forward suggested for the repairs, the complaint was referred for an 
Ombudsmans decision. On 21 May 2023, whilst the complaint was waiting for an 
Ombudsmans review, a further leak occurred.
The complaint was passed to me for consideration. I issued a provisional decision. 
I explained the limitations of my consideration. I felt UKI had failed Ms F in some key areas 
and that a total of £1,000 compensation was fairly and reasonably due. I felt UKI should pay 
some interest against delayed council tax payments. I said it should clean items and replace 
a vanity unit. UKI agreed with the compensation and interest awards. Ms F was unhappy 
with my findings.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
The parties will likely notice that my background above is brief. They can rest assured Im 
aware of the history of this claim and complaint, Ive noted the many issues of concern and 
my brief background is certainly not intended to overlook any of that. Rather, to avoid 
duplication, any key background information about the aspects at the heart of the complaint 
is contained with the relevant part of my provisional findings below. 
As this is now my final decision, my provisional findings will be quoted in italics. Ill set any 
comments from the parties against each relevant section, along with my replies.
Scope of my decision regarding repairs
I know Ms F would like me to require UKI to appoint a different loss adjuster, and/or for it to 
use different reinstatement contractors going forwards. And I think it is fair to say, given the 
details Ive set out below, that she has reasonably lost faith in the current loss adjuster. So, it 
may make sense to UKI, if it is taking a pragmatic view of things, to make a change to try 
and ensure the repairs can now move forward smoothly. But I cant make a direction in this 
respect  because our decision about how UKI should handle the claim moving forward has 
already been made by my colleague in the final decision dated 9 February 2023.
Ive set out here the directions from the February 2023 decision by my Ombudsman 
colleague. 
complete the agreed strip out works as soon as possible (if they arent already
complete);
get expert confirmation that the property is dry and/or, if it isnt, carry out drying as
soon as practically possible;
provide an updated report (to be shared with Ms F) setting out the remaining work to
be carried out  this should cover the issues with the underlay and the mould and
should set out whether any additional damage reported by Ms F since she made the
original claim is covered by the policy;
complete any remaining reinstatement works as soon as practically possible;
I cant alter these directions  and they speak to UKIs completion of all the insured works. 
So, what I can require UKI to do now will be limited by these previous directions.
Further, as mentioned, theres been another leak which is affecting some of the same areas. 
UKI has agreed to sweep that all into this claim, but it means that the repair programme has 
to be changed/adapted. I know UKI has appointed a different drying and restoration 
contractor to deal with repairs going forwards and I trust that will afford Ms F some peace of 
mind for the remaining reinstatement work. 
The second leak occurred on 21 May 2023. At that point, work had been put on hold as an 
impasse had been reached between Ms F and UKI. Both parties have agreed for me to 
consider what happened until that point. I know Ms F would like me to consider things 
beyond then, perhaps to date  but I am not a claims handler. Her complaint was made in 
late 2022 and early 2023 about UKIs handling of the 2022 claim. But the new leak 
potentially changes what is required of UKI in respect of reinstating the property. Essentially 
what it must do regarding the first leak is naturally and materially affected by the further leak. 
So, 21 May 2023 provides a reasonable point for me to consider Ms Fs complaint to.
Ms F said she did not understand why I could not alter previous directions set out by my 
colleague in their final decision dated 9 February 2023, regarding either repairs or alternative 
accommodation. Especially, she said, when UKI had failed to follow those directions. She 
feels that as this is a new complaint  I should be able to make directions about what has 
occurred during its period. Ms F asked that I make a finding in-line with that suggested by 
our Investigator. Ms F said different drying contractors have not been appointed following the 
second leak. And besides the continued involvement of the original loss adjuster taints the 
whole claim. She said she didnt consent to me considering events up until 21 May 2023 as 
part of this complaint.
UKI said it wanted some comment from me about it not being able to access Ms Fs home 
for repairs  it said this was important for the claim going forward. 
I appreciate that the limitations of my findings are frustrating and upsetting for Ms F. I know 
Ms F feels UKI did not comply with the directions of my colleague in their 9 February 2023 
decision. But that does not give me power to add to those directions to make UKI correct things. Thats because this service has no power to enforce the decisions we make. That is 
something only a court could do. I know Ms F prefers the outcome initially suggested by our 
Investigator and that her main goal is to get UKI to agree to an independent assessment of 
the works and outstanding necessary repairs at her home. But for the reasons explained, 
I cant fairly and reasonably make a decision along those lines, or to make UKI change its 
loss adjuster. Ive reviewed Ms Fs response to my suggestion, put to the parties in 
August 2023, that I consider, as part of this complaint, the claim activity occurring up until 
21 May 2023 (after UKIs final response of 13 April 2023). She said she thought my 
consideration should go further than that  to take into account everything to that date (in 
August 2023). Im satisfied that by asking me to take into account everything up to date, 
Ms F consented to me taking into account detail beyond the date of UKIs final response.
I appreciate UKI is concerned that Ms F hasnt been allowing it to carry out work. I think its 
fair to say shes been frustrated and worried. Given some of my findings below I can 
understand her being concerned. I can also understand, within the period I am considering, 
which is up until 21 May 2023, that she wanted to wait for the outcome of my findings before 
going ahead with any works. Ive not considered what has happened after 21 May 2023.   
Repair issues
Ms F had many concerns as of 2 December 2022. Ive considered and commented on UKIs 
respective actions below.
Front door  
Ms F was concerned as this needed to be building regulation compliant. I know the loss 
adjuster was aware of this from before December 2022. Yet whilst the repair programme 
was progressing in February 2023, it was not until the end of March that the loss adjuster got 
confirmation from the contractors that they could not supply and fit a compliant door. The 
loss adjuster then organised this, although it wasnt fitted because work was stopped. That 
should have been organised in December 2022. That would have avoided Ms F worrying 
about it and having to complain about it. Ill take that into account when awarding 
compensation.
Ms F said that there was incompetence, lack of care and professionalism from the loss 
adjuster regarding the door. She had to deal with researching and finding a compliant door  
if she hadnt UKI wouldve fitted the wrong type of door. She said the property needed drying 
and restoration before a door could be fitted, which the loss adjuster had never addressed.
My view is that UKI handled the front door issue poorly. I accept that Ms F put in a lot of 
effort to get this resolved. At the point the work stopped the property was dry, and fitting the 
front door could have been completed as part of the overall reinstatement programme.
Underlay  
Ms F wanted the underlay taking up as it was wet. UKI did do this when it visited the 
property in January 2023. Im not sure why it wasnt done before. Ms F was worried about 
this during December 2022 and until she received confirmation it had been removed in early 
February 2023. If UKI had removed the underlay when the property was stripped, this two 
months of worry could have been avoided for Ms F. Ill take it into account when awarding 
compensation.
Ms F said it was common sense this was needed and should have been done in the first 
place. She shouldnt have had to chase for what shouldve been done as a matter of course.
I agree UKI failed Ms F regarding the underlay. As far as I can, given the period I am 
considering, Ive taken that into account. Mould 
There was mould in the property. Ms F argued it was because the property wasnt dry. UKI 
checked if the property was dry following the February decision. It was entitled to rely on the 
findings of its expert in that respect  which said it was dry. In any event the mould was then 
dealt with in April 2023. I know Ms F thinks a mould specialist should have been used and a 
certificate produced. But the restoration company had recommended the mould could be 
rectified by sanitising it  which UKIs contractors confirmed they did, before stain blocking 
the affected walls, and arranging to leave the heating on low. I think this was reasonably 
handled by UKI. 
Ms F said UKIs reliance wasnt fair because the expert was not independent. She said she 
was disappointed as she felt Id just taken UKIs word that the mould had been sanitised  
shed provided photos showing this was not the case. She wants to see evidence this was 
treated. Ms F said its likely mould also formed behind the cupboards in the bedroom, which 
UKI has never considered. She said the contractors never went to her property to put the 
heating on. Ms F said shed like a mould specialist appointed. 
I understand Ms Fs concern that the expert wasnt independent. But a lack of independence 
doesnt mean it was unfair for UKI to rely on the findings. I appreciate that Ms Fs provided 
photos. Ive considered them. Ive seen that contractors attended the property and confirmed 
work was completed. Im satisfied the mould was dealt with. Ive seen that contractors were 
at the property in April and an agreement had been reached for the heating to be left on. Ive 
seen nothing to make me think this wasnt done. My colleagues decision of 9 February 2023 
included a direction regarding the mould. As Ive explained I cant change or add to that, so 
I wont be making a direction which requires UKI to appoint a mould specialist. 
Asbestos  
Ms F knew there was asbestos in a panel of the bathroom wall. As of December 2022, Ms F 
was trying to get clarification that it had been removed and that the removal had been done 
in line with regulations. Detail from UKI about the panel has varied from it saying that it 
wasnt removed, to it saying that there was no evidence it contained asbestos. Recently, UKI 
has confirmed it knew the panel contained asbestos and, when the property was initially 
stripped, the contractors were meant to have removed and disposed of this in line with 
regulations. However, an oversight meant it was removed without regulations being applied. 
I know UKI has since tested the house to make sure there is no asbestos present. Which 
should reassure Ms F going forwards. But I accept she will be worried and angry about the 
lack of care which resulted in her home (and her, to a limited extent, because she was not 
living there) having been potentially exposed to harmful contaminants. I understand that the 
risks from the type of asbestos used in the home are relatively low. But I say this to offer 
Ms F some reassurance, not to justify UKIs poor actions in respect of this serious matter. 
I accept the asbestos issue has caused Ms F significant worry and concern during the period 
I am considering and Ill take that into account when awarding compensation. 
Ms F pointed out that UKI had also, in April 2023 said it had removed the asbestos safely. 
She said this was further evidence of it lying. She feels Ive minimised this issue which she 
sees as clear evidence of malpractice by UKI. Shes spoken to her doctor and he is going to 
refer her for tests.
I think UKI never got to grips with the complaint regarding asbestos. As a result the answers 
it gave to Ms F and this service were flawed. And UKI has now admitted to carrying out work 
not in line with industry regulations. Its not for me to say though if this equates to 
malpractice on its part. And nor is it for me to punish it because of the breach. I can assure 
Ms F that whilst my detail about the asbestos issue is relatively short, I was in no way 
seeking to minimise this very concerning repair issue.Dirty sanitary ware and appliances  
Seemingly the contractors were using the bathroom, including storing items in the bath, 
without caring for it. Nothing, including appliances in the kitchen, was protected. UKI PAT 
tested the appliances and its assured Ms F that items will be cleaned during restoration. I 
think thats reasonable  for completeness, Ill include a direction in this respect in my award 
below. But I can understand that Ms F saw all of this as further evidence of a lack of care 
being taken for her home. Which, equally reasonably, she found upsetting. Ill take that into 
account when awarding compensation. 
Vanity unit  
Ms F said this needed replacing. The loss adjuster, in January 2023, said its scope 
confirmed it would be removed and refitted (so not replaced). I think that, in this respect, the 
loss adjuster has overlooked an earlier agreement from its office which acknowledged that 
the unit was damaged and needed replacing. At that time the contractor was asked to 
amend the scope. I can only surmise that the amendment did not occur. I will require UKI to 
replace the vanity unit. I think the answer in January 2023  that the unit would now be 
refitted  has likely been another cause of frustration for Ms F. Ill take that into account 
when awarding compensation.
Regarding the dirty items and the vanity unit, UKI said they werent part of this complaint. It 
said, in any event, both wouldve been dealt with during the works. Ms F said the toilet would 
have to be replaced. She said shed said several times that the unit needed replacing.  
Im satisfied that both these issues were part of Ms Fs complaint made following UKIs 
previous final response of 2 December 2022, that date being when the final decision of 
9 February 2023 considered matters until. I would hope that the cleaning, certainly, would be 
dealt with as part of the reinstatement programme. But as this specific need for cleaning has 
arisen due to UKIs poor work, rather than the claim, it was appropriate for me to include a 
direction regarding it here. Ive not seen evidence that the dirty items are damaged beyond 
repair. The vanity unit was only down in the schedule for re-fitting, not replacement (despite, 
as I said, UKIs previous agreement it would be replaced). So there was no reason for me to 
think replacing the unit was something which would be done during the normal course of the 
remaining works. It was, therefore, appropriate for me to issue a direction in this respect.     
Living room ceiling  
Ms F felt this had been affected by the leak. UKI arranged for the restoration company to 
check the ceiling in February 2023. No damage was found. Whilst I note some disparity  
the restoration company referenced cracking when that wasnt the description Ms F had 
given, I think if any water-related issues had been evident, theyd have been identified. 
Ms F said UKI had said it would deal with the ceiling as a separate claim  but it had never 
followed through on this.
If Ms F has raised a new claim and doesnt feel UKI is responding to it, that is unfortunate. 
But the complaint that came to me for consideration was that Ms F felt the ceiling had been 
damaged by the original leak, which UKI had not accepted, which is what my provisional 
findings focussed on. 
Material choices and betterment  
In December 2022 the loss adjuster was asking Ms F for material choices. She provided 
these in January 2023. In late February 2023, with work about to start, the contractor told Ms 
F that items were missing and shed picked items that exceeded the budget. The contractor 
told the loss adjuster that Ms F was looking for betterment (items better than those shed had 
before). The loss adjuster accepted the contractors word. Later, UKI accepted that there 
wasnt really any betterment  that costs may have just increased over time and that an error had been made in recording the floor tiles as vinyl when theyd always been ceramic (and 
which Ms F had chosen). In my view, the loss adjuster did not manage this situation properly 
 it was never the contractors role to determine betterment. And if there had been any 
issues to discuss about material choices  these conversations should have begun in 
January 2023. It was the end of March 2023 when this issue was resolved. Im satisfied this 
situation added to Ms Fs general worry and frustration in that period. Ill take that into 
account when awarding compensation.
Ms F said this has been particularly difficult, shed had to go to great lengths to convince UKI 
that she wasnt lying or trying to get betterment. She said that there was no betterment at all.
I said provisionally that UKI failed Ms F in this respect. I accept she was put to a lot of 
trouble and upset as a result. 
 
Alternative Accommodation (AA)
The final decision dated 9 February 2023 said UKI must pay for AA until the claim is 
resolved: pay for Ms Fs alternative accommodation until the works are completed 
(assuming Ms F cooperates reasonably with the process). I cant change or add to that final 
decision. But I can look at how UKI has handled the arrangements for AA and any related 
payments during the period that Im considering, which is 2 December 2022 to 21 May 2023.
Theres been an ongoing issue with AA payments  whilst UKI paid the rent each month, the 
payment wasnt getting allocated properly and the letting agent was chasing Ms F for what it 
saw as outstanding rent. UKIs agent has blamed the letting agent for not advising that a 
certain reference number was required to allow proper assignment of the funds. But I can 
see that as early as November 2022, and even as of 7 December 2022, UKI was aware that 
payments were going astray due to a missing reference number. Yet through to May 2023 
this wasnt resolved and each month Ms F received contact from the letting agent 
threatening action for non-payment of rent. Ms F said to UKI at one point that she should not 
be having to resolve things each month. And she is completely right. Ill take the significant 
distress and inconvenience, which I accept she was caused by this issue, into account when 
awarding compensation. 
I know Ms F has found it frustrating that UKI has only renewed the accommodation on a 
monthly basis. But I can understand why it has done this. I say this because I do think UKI 
has been trying to move the claim and repairs on, and it wasnt unreasonable for it to think 
that each month the accommodation was extended would be sufficient to allow completion of 
work and for Ms F to return home.
An issue arose with council tax. UKI had paid for some of the 2022 charges in 2022. But by 
2023 payments to Ms F were outstanding. The loss adjuster told Ms F in April 2023 that hed 
pay her the remainder for that years charges, which was £864.06  but when payment was 
raised the £250 policy excess was deducted. So only £614.06 was paid to Ms F. 
I think it was reasonable for UKI to deduct the excess from that reimbursement payment  
but it should have been clearer with Ms F. It should have told her it was doing that. Because 
it wasnt, she thought the council tax payment (of £864.06) hadnt been made and she had to 
make further enquiries. 
The payments should not have been delayed either. UKI knew Ms F was still living 
elsewhere. And that she was making monthly payments to the local authority for both 
properties. So it should have been reimbursing her in a timely fashion in line with the 
payments she was making. Im going to require UKI to pay an amount equivalent to interest 
to Ms F. The payment UKI paid in April 2023 covered monthly payments for a set period. It 
will have to apply interest to each monthly payment amount Ms F paid to the council, which made up the total UKI refunded in April 2023, from the date she paid each amount until 
9 April 2023 when the bulk payment was made.  
Ms F said extending AA for one month at a time was not fair. Not given the notice period for 
the property she was living in and the necessary repairs, including further drying since the 
leak in May 2023, but also to allow the mould and asbestos issues to be dealt with properly. 
Ms F said I was wrong about the council tax payments. She said she should not have to pay 
for both properties and fight for reimbursement.
In reaching my provisional decision I reviewed the AA arrangements up until 21 May 2023. 
I remain of the view that UKI, extending the stay on a short-term basis as it did, was fair and 
reasonable. I also remain of the view though that UKI acted unfairly and unreasonably 
regarding paying for the AA and reimbursing Ms Fs council tax payments. 
In her response to my provisional decision, Ms F referred me to an email she sent to our 
Investigator on 9 June 2023, explaining what council tax she felt was outstanding. I did 
consider that email when making my provisional decision. It referred to Ms F never having 
received the sum of £864.96  and I explained provisionally why that was, that that sum less 
the policy excess had been paid to her. That was for costs from September 2022 through to 
the end of March 2023, with Ms F having previously confirmed and/or acknowledged that 
payments for June, July and August 2022 had been made by UKI. The payment of £864.96 
less the policy excess, was made in April 2023. At that time the new tax year had started. 
UKI reimbursed Ms Fs April and May 2023 payments in July 2023. A further delay, but 
relatively limited. Its not one where I feel payment of additional interest is warranted, some 
delay at the start of a new year isnt unreasonable.  
  
Compensation
I bear in mind, as explained above, that there has been a lot of worry and upset during the 
roughly six-month period I am considering here (2 December 2022 to 21 May 2023). I also 
bear in mind that Ms F expected the repairs to progress with a certain degree of clarity after 
my colleagues February final decision. So, I can understand that the upset she felt when 
this did not happen was heightened. 
I also think that Ms F was caused substantial and significant worry about the rent payments. 
I can see that she put in a lot of effort each month to get payments resolved and to ultimately 
identify why the payments were going astray. Ms F was caused more upset and worry by 
being left out of pocket for council tax payments between December 2022 and April 2023.  
I know that UKI, as explained in its 13 April 2023 final response letter, has paid £500 
compensation already for upset caused after 2 December 2022. I think £1,000 in total is due. 
UKI may think that is quite a high award for the period I am considering. But I think it fairly 
reflects that Ms F has been caused substantial worry throughout this sustained period. And 
that she has also had to put in a lot of effort throughout those six months to try and resolve 
issues of concern.  
Ms F said shed had to live in her mouldy home for three months before UKI moved her into 
AA  this was during the period considered in the 9 February 2023 decision but had never 
been addressed. After that decision shed expected repairs to progress not just with clarity, 
but safely. She feels my award does not adequately take into account the very serious issue 
of asbestos. Ms F feels that a harsh reprimand should be given to UKI. She said theres 
overall poor treatment from UKI to consider too, from it disregarding her questions to it 
bullying her. She said shed like a breakdown of my award. Ms F said shed like an award 
that recognises her suffering and UKIs wrongdoing, as well as that, overall, shes suffered 
indescribably over a two-year period. Im sorry Ms F feels that what she went through at the start of the claim, regarding living in a 
mouldy property hasnt been considered. But my colleagues decision of 9 February 2023 did 
take into account UKIs 2022 decision to leave Ms F living in the water damaged property. 
Ive explained that I accept that the position Ms F was in as of 2 December 2022, with the 
history of the claim behind her, impacted the way she felt and how much UKIs failures, after 
2 December 2022, affected her. Ive seen UKI trying to move the claim on at times, and 
I think some of its communications lacked some sensitivity. But nothing Ive seen amounts to 
bullying or similarly negative behaviours. Ive taken account of the serious nature of UKIs 
failures and how, given that nature, Ms Fs been affected. But Ive also explained that it is 
not for me to punish UKI. Nor is it part of my role to award compensation against each 
element of upset caused by failure, and therefore, be able to breakdown my compensation 
award. Having reviewed matters, I remain of the view that total compensation of £1,000 is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
I require UKI to:
Clean all appliances and items of sanitary ware.
Replace the vanity unit.
Pay an amount equivalent to interest* applied against each sum Ms F paid to the local 
authority, which makes up the total refund sum of £864.06, from the date Ms F paid each 
sum until the sum of £614.06 was paid on 9 April 2023.
Pay Ms F a further £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience, where my award 
is £1,000 but £500 has already been paid.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require UKI to take off tax from this interest. 
If asked, it must give Ms F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman