DRN-2673607
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as P have complained that Allianz Insurance Plc hasnt paid them 
enough to settle a claim on their small fleet policy after one of their vans was written-off.
Mr F, a director of P, has brought the complaint on Ps behalf. Mr F has been helped in 
bringing this complaint to us, but for ease of reading Ill refer to all actions and comments of 
the representative as being those of Mr F. 
What happened
P claimed on their policy with Allianz after one of their vans was involved in an accident that 
wasnt their fault. Allianz said the van would be written-off (known as a total loss) and 
ultimately valued the van at £5,000. P complained to Allianz as they said the van was worth 
around £7,000. They were unhappy that Allianz hadnt paid for the signwriting on the van 
and said the colour of the van meant it was worth more. They also said the colour of the van 
meant it was more difficult to find a replacement. 
Allianz said it couldnt increase the value of the van, as it had pre-existing damage which 
meant it wouldnt be able to justify a higher valuation to the third-party insurer. 
When Allianz refused to increase the valuation of the van further, P brought their complaint 
to us. They were unhappy with the valuation, that the cost of replacing the signwriting wasnt 
included and that Allianz had caused delays while dealing with the claim. 
While we were looking into things, P told us that they were pursuing the signwriting as an 
uninsured loss directly with the other drivers insurer.
Our investigator looked into Ps complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
Allianz had fairly valued the van as the valuation was in line with those produced by relevant 
trade guides. 
P disagreed. They didnt think the guides took account of the variation in colour, as their van 
was an unusual colour. They said they had provided evidence of vans for sale at the time of 
the claim which showed the prices varied according to the colour. 
Before reaching a decision I checked the valuations produced by the trade guides and found 
them to be different to those produced by our investigator. I thought the trade guides gave a 
valuation of £6,482.
I also didnt think Allianz had evidenced how the pre-existing damage had impacted the 
valuation. As such, I said that I intended to find that Allianz should pay P an additional 
£1,482, plus interest to reflect a fairer valuation. 
P accepted this but Allianz didnt. It provided evidence from its engineer to show that the 
cost of repairing the vans pre-existing damage was over £3,000. 
In light of this new information, I said that I intended to find that the £5,000 valuation Allianz 
had given was a fair and reasonable amount to settle Ps claim, due to the extent of the pre-
existing damage. 
P still didnt think this was a fair valuation and provided an advert of a van for sale, in the 
same colour as theirs, that they thought indicated that the value should be higher. P also 
confirmed that they had recovered the cost of the signwriting as an uninsured loss. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Ps policy say that if the van is damaged the most Allianz will 
pay is either the market value at the time of the loss, or the amount last declared, whichever 
is less. The policy doesnt define market value but its usual for this to be the cost of 
replacing the vehicle with one of the same make, model, mileage and condition immediately 
before the loss. 
As the signwriting cost has now been recovered as an uninsured loss Im not going to 
comment on that in this decision. 
Its not for me to put an exact valuation on Ps van; instead I look to see if Allianz has valued 
the van fairly and reasonably. We usually do this by looking at relevant trade guides, as 
these are based on nationwide research of likely selling prices. 
I can see from Allianzs notes that their engineer said the van had a higher than average 
mileage and pre-accident damage. The engineer based the valuation on a trade guide value 
of £5,975, and then initially deducted £859 for mileage and £500 for the condition, before 
agreeing to increase the valuation to £5,000. Allianz said it had checked two other trade 
guides which gave similar valuations. So, it thought its valuation was fair. 
Ive looked at three relevant trade guides. The guides produce valuations of £6,500, £6,464 
and £4,980. When looking at these I think £4,980 is out of line with the others and therefore I 
find the other two more persuasive. 
That means if Ps vehicle was in a good condition prior to the accident I would find it fair and 
reasonable to take a figure between the other two figures, the average of which £6,482. 
Allianz has provided photos of Ps van which shows evidence of the pre-existing damage. It 
has also provided a report from the engineer which shows it would cost around £3,800 to 
repair the pre-existing damage. I wouldnt think its fair for Allianz to deduct the whole £3,800 
from the settlement, as P may not have had all of the pre-existing damage repaired or may 
have been able to have some of the damage repaired more cheaply. So, taking that into 
account, I think would be fair and reasonable for Allianz to deduct up to 50% of the repair 
costs for the pre-existing damage. However, deducting £1,900 from £6,482 would produce a 
valuation lower than the £5,000 valuation produced by Allianz. As Allianz has already offered 
more than the market value minus 50% of the pre-existing damage costs, Im not going to 
require it to increase its offer.
I appreciate that the deduction I think Allianz could have made for the vans condition is 
more than the £500 Allianzs engineer had deducted. But I dont think I could fairly require 
Allianz to increase its valuation when it had reached a similar valuation but through a 
different calculation. I have considered Ps point that the valuation should be higher based on the colour, but I 
havent seen enough evidence of this to persuade me it would be fair and reasonable to 
require Allianz to pay more than its offered. P have provided an advert for a van in the same 
colour, that they believe is similar, but the advert is for a newer van, albeit with a higher 
mileage, so I dont think theyre comparable. I have also asked one of the trade guides if 
they think the colour would increase the value and they said they dont think it would due to 
the age and model of the van. 
I understand that P is unhappy about the time Allianz took to deal with the claim and their 
concerns that the settlement value wasnt high enough. But I dont think Allianz took an 
unreasonable amount of time to provide a fair valuation and had raised the payment for the 
claim in just over a month. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr F was hoping for, but having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Allianz to increase the valuation of Ps van. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman