DRN-1433102
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Zurich Insurance PLC didn't add protected no claims bonus to her car 
insurance policy after it was renewed. Mrs C is being represented by her partner. For ease, 
I'll refer to the actions of the representative as being those of Mrs C.
What happened
Mrs C's car insurance policy was renewed on 1 July 2019. The policy renewal was arranged 
via an insurance broker. Prior to Mrs C's policy being renewed, Zurich provided her with a 
renewal quote via her broker - this included the option to protect her no claims bonus with an 
added cost of around £13. 
Following the policy renewal, Mrs C (via her broker) asked Zurich to add the protection to her 
no claims bonus. This was attempted on the day the policy commenced. Zurich said it was 
unable to do so as the policy had already begun. It said the only option would be to cancel 
and take out a new policy with the protection added. The broker told Mrs C this would be at 
an extra cost of £120.
Mrs C complained to Zurich and it said that the option to add the protected no claims bonus 
was only available at renewal. Zurich explained that it went ahead with the renewal based on 
the broker's instructions and was satisfied that it had followed its process correctly. 
Mrs C brought her complaint to this service and added that the policy was mis-sold. Our 
investigator didn't think that Zurich had acted unfairly. He said the policy was renewed in line 
with the broker's instructions and that we couldn't look at the sale as Zurich wasn't the 
business that sold the policy to Mrs C. Mrs C didn't agree and asked for an ombudsman's 
decision. 
Zurich reiterated that the no claims bonus protection is an additional optional benefit that can 
only be added when a policy first starts or when it is renewed. Zurich says it doesn't have a 
way of adding the protection when a policy is already in place due to its underwriting rules - 
which it can't change as it may lead to errors on other policies. Zurich explained that it can 
only make other changes part-way through a policy - such as a change in vehicle or who the 
policy covers.
I contacted Zurich and said I didnt think it was fair that Mrs C would've be charged a further 
£120 to add protected no claims bonus  particularly as shed asked to make the change to 
her policy on the day it was renewed. Zurich told me that this wasnt a cost it had set out and 
it wouldve renewed the policy in line with the original quote, which was an additional 
premium of around £13. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I'm not upholding this complaint and I'll explain why.I've seen a copy of the correspondence Mrs C had with her broker regarding the policy 
renewal. It seems her broker confirmed the policy had been renewed and sent Mrs C her 
renewal documents some time during the morning of the day the policy was renewed. It 
appears it was after this that Mrs C asked her broker to get in touch with Zurich to add the 
protection to her no claims bonus. However, based on Zurich's own underwriting rules, it 
said this wasn't something it could do. 
Zurich says it can only add the no claims bonus protection when a policy first starts or during 
renewal. By the time Mrs C asked it to add the protection to her policy, Zurich had already 
processed the renewal and issued Mrs C's renewal documents. It appears as though her 
policy commenced at around noon that day. So, by time Mrs C asked her broker get in 
touch, it was unfortunately too late. 
In its renewal quote, Zurich provided a separate quote that included no claims bonus 
protection. It was up to Mrs C to choose which one she wanted and to make sure she let 
Zurich know before her existing policy expired. It doesn't appear as though this happened - 
so Zurich didn't act unfairly by renewing the policy without the added option. 
Ive spoken to Zurich and it tells me it wouldve honoured the original quote, inclusive of the 
no claims bonus protection (which wouldve been around a £13 increase to the premium), 
had Mrs C chose to cancel and renew the policy again at the time. Zurich says it didnt quote 
any other additional cost to cancel the policy and add the protection. I listened to the call 
between the broker and Zurich and I cant see that any additional costs were mentioned. 
Mrs C now thinks her policy was mis-sold because the protection wasn't added. But Zurich 
didn't sell her the policy. So I can't investigate this part of Mrs C's complaint against Zurich 
as it isnt responsible for the sale. 
In summary, Zurich hasn't acted unfairly in not adding protected no claims bonus to Mrs C's 
policy. So I won't be asking it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman