DRN-3973818
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that esure Insurance Limited (esure) declined their claim for 
storm damage. The home insurance policy was in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill 
refer only to Mr S throughout my decision.
What happened
During a well-publicised storm, part of Mr Ss garden wall collapsed. He claimed under his 
policy. esure couldnt attend to inspect the damage immediately due to the high number of 
claims it received during that period, so it advised Mr S to get quotes for the repairs.
Mr S asked several builders to attend and quote, but their responses were limited. 
Eventually, he got one quote of over £15,000 to take down and rebuild the wall using new 
materials.
esure sent a surveyor to inspect the damage around five weeks after Mr S first made his 
claim. The surveyor took photos of the wall and concluded that the damage wasnt caused 
by the storm. He declined the claim.
Mr S complained to esure. After investigating, esure confirmed that his claim was declined. It 
said the storm had simply highlighted the walls poor condition and pre-existing damage. Mr 
S was unhappy with its response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought esures field surveyors report 
carried more weight than Mr Ss two-year-old home report, and the photos supported esures 
view that the wall was already in poor condition. Our investigator thought esure had declined 
the claim fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said:
The surveyor judged the condition of the wall after the storm, so naturally it would 
have mortar missing and some rotation from the collapse of part of the wall and the 
pressure of the wind. 
The age of the wall shouldnt have any bearing on the matter, and if it did, many 
structures would not be covered by insurance due to age.
The home report carried out by a chartered surveyor confirmed that the wall was not 
in need of repair two years earlier when Mr S bought the house, but esure didnt 
consider it.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Ss complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
While the outcome is the same as that proposed by our investigator, Ive considered 
additional information to help me understand the condition of the wall prior to the storm. 
Therefore, I think its only fair that both Mr S and esure have a further opportunity to 
comment.
Firstly, theres no dispute that there was a storm, so I wont consider this any further. 
Severe storms can cause walls to collapse, so Im satisfied the type of damage is 
consistent with that sometimes caused by storm conditions.
The final point, then, is whether the storm was the main or only cause of the damage. 
esure said the condition of the wall was the main cause, while Mr S said the wall was in 
good condition and wouldnt have just fallen down.
Ive looked at the photos, the Home Report, the surveyors report, and Mr Ss opinion of 
the damage. Having done so, I agree with esure that the storm simply highlighted existing 
problems. The evidence Ive relied on to reach this decision includes:
Photos of the wall showing gaps in the mortar and twisting.
The Home Report which says, The garden ground and boundaries have been 
adequately maintained.
The recording of the surveyors report, confirming the claim was declined due to a 
natural breakdown of materials, not consistent with a one-off storm event.
Mr Ss opinion that the wall was in good condition prior to the storm.
Marketing literature from the time Mr S bought the house.
While the Home Report doesnt indicate a need for any immediate repairs to the property 
boundaries, there was no mention specifically of the walls condition. The report was two 
years old, so I cant fairly say the wall remained in a condition without need of repair. 
Although I have no reason to doubt Mr Ss opinion of the wall, Im persuaded by the 
content of esures surveyors report, the photos which support its content and the online 
marketing information which has further photos of the wall.
I consider the marketing information to be of relevance because it shows the wall as it was 
around the time the Home Report was prepared. Its not possible to clearly identify the 
condition, but what is clear is that the large, seemingly structural, fence on the other side 
of the wall was erected after the Home Report was prepared. Given that there has been a 
change in the boundary since the Home Report was prepared, I cant reasonably rely on it 
as an accurate account of the walls condition at the time of the storm.
I note that esures surveyor thought the neighbour mightve erected the fence to protect 
their property from the wall, but theres no evidence of that. 
Looking at the photos, I see that there are four elements to the boundary. The large fence, 
then a flimsier, worn-looking fence which appears to have mortar attached to it in places 
as if it had been attached to the wall, then the wall, then a metal railing attached to the 
wall. Shrubs had grown up the railing covering parts of the wall. The railings and shrubs 
were on Mr Ss side of the wall, while the two fences were on the neighbours side. What 
this tells me, is that the wall was fairly well enclosed, but the only other structure that 
collapsed was the railing immediately in front of the part of the wall that collapsed, both of 
which fell into Mr Ss garden. Its not clear how severe winds wouldve blown down the 
wall without damaging the remaining fences, or indeed how the wind generated enough 
force to blow the wall into Mr Ss garden, despite there being a much higher, sturdy fence, 
immediately behind it.
In light of this evidence, Im minded to conclude that the storm highlighted pre-existing 
natural breakdown of the materials which weakened the wall, allowing it to collapse during the storm. That is, but for the wall deterioration, the storm wouldnt have damaged the 
wall.
As the evidence persuades me that esure fairly declined the claim in line with the policy, I 
dont plan to ask it to do any more here.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
esure had nothing further to add.
Mr S didnt agree, and he made a number of comments about the evidence and outcome. Ill 
address them below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Quotes
Ive noted Mr Ss comment about being told to obtain quotes for a full rebuild of the wall, yet 
esure later said that wouldnt have been covered anyway. While I can understand that 
wouldve been frustrating, it doesnt demonstrate a significant loss to Mr S. Had the claim 
been accepted, esure wouldve needed to assess what level of rebuild was needed, so I 
cant fairly say it did anything wrong by asking Mr S to get the quotes.
Home Report
Mr S disagreed with my view that the Home Report didnt confirm the wall was in good 
condition. It said there was no need for immediate repairs, which Mr S says the surveyors 
profession translates as being in good condition.
Ive looked again at the Home Report, but Im not persuaded by Mr Ss comments for the 
following reasons:
I dont agree that no need for immediate repairs indicates the wall is in good 
enough condition to withstand severe weather a year and a half later. 
The report confirms it is restricted to matters that could have a material effect upon 
value [of the property]  If certain minor matters are mentioned, it should not be 
interpreted that the property is free of other minor defects. This tells me the Home 
Report was prepared for the purpose of valuing the property for a mortgage and for 
highlighting only significant matters that might affect the value. 
On further consideration of the marketing photos, some deterioration and a stepped 
crack is evident. For context, this is at the top of the wall to the right of the first set of 
railings and above what appears to be a decorative chimney pot or plant pot. This is 
the area of wall that collapsed. 
I accept what Mr S says about the fence on the neighbours side not being structural 
 that was my description rather than the surveyors. It is, however, a large fence, 
with posts set into the ground, and some timber shaping to accommodate a 
horizontal misalignment in the wall. Given that the fence was put up after the Home Report was prepared, I cant reasonably rely on it as an accurate account of the 
walls condition at the time of the storm. 
Mr S says his neighbour made changes to the fence after he took photos of the wall 
damage but before the surveyor attended. While I havent identified those changes, I 
dont think it has any significant relevance to this matter. My reference to the fence is 
simply to point out that there have been changes to the boundary since the Home 
Report was prepared. Therefore, I cant fairly say the wall was in the same condition 
when the storm happened as it was a year and a half earlier.
For these reasons, I cant reasonably rely on the Home Report as an accurate 
representation of the walls condition immediately prior to the storm. So, I consider it 
unreasonable to place more weight on the Home Report than the photo evidence provided 
by both Mr S and the surveyor in attendance after the damage.
As a final point, Mr S disputes that damage wouldve necessarily happened to all parts of the 
boundary. My view was that the way the boundary was built it would be unlikely for the storm 
to damage just one part of it. The wall collapsed into Mr Ss property suggesting the wind 
direction was from his neighbours side. The boundary fences on the neighbours side, 
however, remained in place. On balance, I think its more likely than not that the walls 
condition was the greater contributing factor to its collapse. 
Overall, having considered the evidence again alongside Mr Ss comments, Im satisfied that 
esure declined his claim for the reasons it gave and in line with the policy. I wont be asking 
esure to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr and 
Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman