DRN-3536595
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as M complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) blocked and closed its 
accounts without prior warning.
M is represented by its director, Ms H.
What happened
Ms H says that Metro blocked Ms accounts without warning, then closed them two months 
later without telling her why. Ms H complained to Metro about the block and closure of Ms 
accounts but Metro didnt uphold the complaint. Although transactions continued on the 
accounts, Metro issued its final response on 26 July 2019, saying it was entitled to block and 
close the accounts and that M should make alternative banking arrangements before 10 
September 2019.
Ms H brought her complaint to our service. She suspected Metros actions were motivated 
by discrimination on the grounds of her nationality. And said she wanted to know why Metro 
had taken the actions it did.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint. She said Metro had acted in line with its 
legal and regulatory obligations, and the terms of Ms Hs account. Ms H didnt agree. She 
said she had to give notice to her staff that M might not be able to pay them, and that M lost 
staff as a result, some of whom emotionally attacked her. She asked for an ombudsman to 
review matters afresh and said she wanted £50,000 in compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The extent of the block isnt entirely clear. Metro said it was entitled to block the accounts in 
its FRL, and I can see it did carry out a review. But the evidence Ive seen, including 
statements that show transactions continued during the review, suggests the accounts 
werent actually blocked by Metro.
But, based on what Ive seen, I dont believe it would have been unreasonable in the 
circumstances for Metro to block Ms accounts. Metro has explained that the review was in 
line with its standard procedure and, having reviewed the evidence it has provided, I accept 
that it was. Im satisfied that in reviewing the accounts, Metro was complying with its legal 
and regulatory obligations. And, while I accept, Metros actions caused M inconvenience, I 
cant say its actions were unfair.
Im also satisfied that it acted fairly when it closed Ms accounts. It issued a letter on 12 July 
2019, giving 60 days notice of its intention to close the accounts. That notice was served in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of Ms accounts and Im satisfied Metro acted 
fairly in closing the accounts. 
I acknowledge that Ms H has said that the bank is discriminating against her on the grounds 
of her nationality. And she believes that this is the rationale for the account closures. Whilst I 
recognise the strength of her feelings, Ive not seen any evidence to show any discrimination 
on the part of Metro. And Im satisfied it followed the correct process, for justifiable reasons, 
when it closed Ms accounts.
I recognise what Ms H has said about the impact of Metros actions on her business. But 
because Im not upholding her complaint, I cant reasonably tell Metro to award M any 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman