DRN-3463295
The complaint
Mr H is complaining about how National Savings and Investments (NS&I) handled a call he 
made to them about their automated prize checker, and how they communicated with him 
after this.
What happened
On 3 December 2021 Mr H called NS&I to ask why their automated prize checker wasnt 
working. The adviser told Mr H that when there is a high volume of calls some people have 
difficulty getting through. Mr H asked how many callers it would take to result in the system 
not working, but the adviser didnt know. She told Mr H hed need to write in to ask for this 
information as a FOIA (Freedom of Information Act) request, but after putting him on hold 
she told him she could request this information for him by email.
During the call Mr H asked to register a complaint. He said, in summary, that his complaint 
was about the way the adviser handled the call including her inability to give him the 
information he asked for.
NS&I responded to Mr Hs complaint in writing on 8 December 2021. They apologised for the 
level of service hed received on the call and offered him £30 in compensation (which was 
paid to him shortly afterwards.) They explained that Mr H had been given incorrect 
information by the adviser  because although the adviser had told him shed contact the 
FOIA team by email, in fact Mr H needed to write to NS&I directly to make a FOIA request. 
At the end of this section of their letter they included a line which said this part of your 
complaint is not upheld.
Mr H called NS&Is customer care team on 17 December 2021. He asked why the letter said 
his complaint wasnt upheld. The adviser he spoke to said shed look into this for him. She 
placed him on hold while she called through to the relevant team, which Mr H was unhappy 
about. Mr H then asked her to register another complaint about the level of service shed 
given him during the call, but the adviser said it would be recorded as part of his existing 
complaint.
Mr H sent two letters to NS&I on 31 December 2021 and 5 January 2022. On 17 January 
2022 he called and spoke to an adviser to ask if NS&I had received the letters. The adviser 
told him that he wouldnt receive an acknowledgement for each letter he sent, and he didnt 
know when Mr H could expect a response because the complaint handler was away from 
the office. Mr H also complained about this call, because he was unhappy with the 
information hed been given and that the adviser had called him Sir when hed asked him 
not to.
In February 2022 NS&I wrote to Mr H again. They said, in summary, that the line they 
included in the first letter about his complaint not being upheld was a mistake, and that his 
call on 17 December 2021 hadnt been handled well. They offered him another £40 in 
compensation (which was paid to him a few days later.) 
Mr H contacted us about his complaint, initially complaining about the first two calls and the 
mistake in the letter. Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint, and she felt that the 
compensation NS&I had paid Mr H wasnt enough. She didnt think it fully reflected the poor 
service Mr H received in the first call  and when she considered the compensation overall, 
she thought £100 in total would more fairly recognise the service Mr H received. Mr H has 
already received £70 in compensation - so she asked NS&I to pay another £30.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators view that £100 in compensation was reasonable. And 
neither did NS&I. They said, in summary, that there was no financial detriment to Mr H and 
his tone and manner during the call was unreasonable. They thought the £70 theyd already 
paid in compensation was fair.
Mr H subsequently raised a separate complaint with us about the service hed received on 
the call hed had with NS&I about this issue on 17 January 2022. The investigator let both 
parties know she thought it was appropriate to consider this as part of this complaint rather 
than separately. She thought that during the call the adviser had been reasonable, helpful 
and that his apology for referring to Mr H as Sir after being asked not to was sufficient. So, 
she didnt think any more compensation should be paid above what shed already 
recommended in her view.
Because both Mr H and NS&I disagreed with the investigators view, Mr Hs complaint has 
now been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the overall outcome the investigators reached. Ill explain why.
During his calls to NS&I Mr H expressed his dissatisfaction at the time with many different 
aspects of the calls, which the investigators set out in detail in her view. My decision will 
concentrate on the crux of the complaint Mr H has brought to us  which is the overall 
customer service provided in the calls of 3 December 2021, 17 December 2021 and the call 
of 17 January 2022, and the error in NS&Is letter of 8 December 2021.
Ive taken into account that Mr Hs tone and behaviour was challenging, and I appreciate this 
made things difficult for the advisers who handled his calls. 
I wouldnt expect the adviser from the first call to be able to provide the information Mr H was 
asking for about the number of callers that would cause the automated prize checker to have 
difficulties working. However, I would expect the adviser to be aware that Mr H needed to 
write to NS&I to make a FOIA request, and she wouldnt be able to do that for him. Although 
she did explain this initially, when she returned to the call after placing him on hold she said 
she could email the FOIA team and ask them to write to Mr H with this information, which 
was incorrect.
And although I appreciate Mr Hs behaviour was difficult for the adviser to manage, like the 
investigator I think her tone during the first call came across as unhelpful at times, and its 
likely this contributed to how the call proceeded and to Mr Hs overall frustration.
The mistake in the letter caused Mr H to call NS&I again, and once again his call wasnt 
handled as well as it could have been. The adviser placed him in hold for ten minutes 
without coming back to update him or asking if this was ok, and she also seemed unclear 
about what the next steps would be. At the end of the call she placed Mr H on hold again and then returned saying someone from customer care would call him back on the same 
day, when hed already explained he wanted a written response.
I agree with the investigator that the service provided in the call of 17 January 2022 was 
reasonable, and the apology the adviser gave for calling him Sir was sufficient. 
NS&I have acknowledged the mistake in the letter and that the first two calls werent handled 
well, and theyve apologised, and paid Mr H a total of £70 in compensation. 
But having considered the overall impact on Mr H of the frustration caused by his experience 
over the first two calls, and the mistake in the letter, I do think the £100 compensation in total 
recommended by the investigator is fair, reasonable and in line with awards weve made in 
similar circumstances. So I think NS&I should pay Mr H a further £30 to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint. To put things right National Savings 
and Investments should pay Mr H £30.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman