DRN-3304445
The complaint
Mr R complains because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a cancellation 
claim under his travel insurance policy.
Mr R also complains that the policy terms and conditions and the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) provided by URV didnt clearly set out the cover available 
under his policy. 
What happened
Mr R held an annual travel insurance policy, purchased on 23 February 2020. The policy
was sold by an independent broker and the insurance cover was provided by URV.
Mr R was due to go on holiday abroad on 21 August 2020. However, Mr R didnt travel as
the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign &
Commonwealth Office (FCO)) was advising against all but essential travel to his intended
destination due to the circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr R made a claim under his policy with URV for the cost of his unused flights. URV said the
cancellation of a trip as a result of government restrictions or pandemics wasnt covered
under Mr Rs insurance policy.
Unhappy, Mr R complained to the broker that sold him the policy, before bringing the matter
to the attention of our service.
One of our investigators looked into URVs handling of the claim and said she didnt think
she could ask URV to accept it. Mr R didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the
complaint was referred to me. I made my provisional decision about Mr Rs complaint in 
January 2022. In it, I said:
The broker who sold Mr R this policy is an independent business, separate and distinct from
URV. URV is not responsible for the actions of the broker, and vice versa. The Financial
Ombudsman Service can only consider complaints about one financial business under each
complaint reference number, and when considering complaints involving both a declined
insurance claim and the sale of that insurance policy, wed generally consider the complaint
about the declined claim first. This is because, if we think its fair and reasonable for a claim
to be paid under a policy, the policy cannot have been mis-sold.
This complaint has been set up and considered against URV. So, Ill only be addressing the
activities which URV is responsible for within this decision  that is declining Mr Rs claim
and the content of the policy terms and conditions and the IPID.
If Mr R wishes to complain about the sales process that he followed when purchasing this
policy, wed need to set up and consider a separate complaint against the broker. I
understand the broker has already issued Mr R with a final response letter in relation to his
complaint about the sale of the policy. If Mr R wishes for us to take a mis-sale complaint
forward, he should let our investigator know and she can arrange this.
URVs decision to decline Mr Rs claim
Rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers should handle
claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account
when considering Mr Rs complaint.
I understand Mr Rs claim arose from exceptional and unprecedented circumstances, which
were outside of his control. However, insurance policies dont cover every situation and an
insurer is entitled to decide the level of risk which it wants to accept in return for the premium
charged. The level of cover available under a travel insurance policy can vary widely  and
did so prior to the Covid-19 pandemic  and its up to a policyholder to make sure they
purchase a level of cover which suits their needs.
URVs obligations to Mr R in the event of a trip being cancelled are set out on page 10 of the
policy terms and conditions under the heading Your pre-travel policy  if you are unable to
go on your trip (Policy A Section 1). This says that URV will pay for certain irrecoverable
costs if a trip is cancelled for one of the following listed, insured reasons:
you or a travelling companion is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts.
a close relative or a close business associate in your home country is ill, injured or
dies before the trip starts.
the person you are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts.
you are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law.
you or a travel companion have been made redundant.
the requirements of HM forces.
Mr Rs trip wasnt cancelled for any of the above listed reasons.
Furthermore, the same page of Mr Rs policy specifically states:
BE AWARE!
No cover is provided under this section due to; 
the advice or recommendation of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office applicable
at the time of your departure.
So, not only are the circumstances which Mr R found himself in not listed as an insured
event under his policy, these circumstances are also specifically excluded from cover. This
means Mr Rs claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of his policy.
Mr Rs policy documentation
An insurer is entitled to decide not to provide cover for cancellation claims arising from
changes in FCDO advice, so long as this is made clear in the policy. I think the exclusion
which Ive quoted above, set out on page 10, is both clear and transparent in outlining that
theres no cover under the policy if a trip is cancelled due to FCDO travel advice. The
exclusion is set out on the same page as the section outlining what cancellation cover isprovided under the policy. And, the exclusion is under a prominent heading. So, overall, Im
satisfied that URV brought this exclusion to Mr Rs attention within the policy terms and
conditions.
The presence of a different exclusion which Mr R has referred to (on page 9 of the terms and
conditions, relating to claims for travelling against FCDO advice) doesnt change this. And,
having considered these particular policy terms and conditions, I dont think the presence of
this other exclusion within the contract makes the cover provided contradictory or unclear.
Industry rules require an insurer to provide a customer with appropriate information about a
policy in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. Appropriate information
includes the information that must be set out in an IPID, which gives customers an at a
glance summary of their cover. This includes a summary of excluded risks. Mr R has
pointed out that the IPID provided by URV doesnt say hes not covered for claims arising
from government advice or from pandemics.
While the IPID doesnt refer to the exclusion for cancellation claims arising from changes in
FCDO advice, it does refer to the policy exclusion for claims for travelling against FCDO
advice. Ive taken into account the content and format of the IPID, as well as what I think is
the clarity and transparency of the exclusion outlined on page 10 of the policy terms and
conditions. Overall, Im satisfied that the combined effect of these documents is clear in
outlining that Mr R has no cover under his policy for cancellation claims made because of
FCDO travel advice.
URV didnt rely on any pandemic exclusion to decline Mr Rs claim. In any event, when Mr R
bought his policy, I wouldnt except an insurer to have highlighted any such exclusion within
an IPID. I dont think such an exclusion was significant or unusual at the time - which was
before Covid-19 was declared as a pandemic by the World Health Organisation and/or
considered to be a known risk by any travel insurer that Im aware of.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but his policy simply doesnt cover the situation he found himself
in. And, having considered the policy documentation, I dont think URV has acted unfairly or
unreasonably by declining Mr Rs claim. I therefore dont intend to direct URV to do anything
further.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. URV replied to my 
provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr R replied and said, in 
summary:
he couldnt see any exclusion in the IPID for travelling against FCDO advice;
industry rules say an IPID must contain the main exclusions due to which claims 
cannot be made;
its unfair for his complaint not to be upheld when the IPID and the policy terms and 
conditions dont align. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The IPID relating to Mr Rs policy, at page 2, under the heading Where am I covered?, 
says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel.
Its not possible for an IPID to mention each and every policy exclusion. The IPID doesnt 
mention that cancellation claims arising from FCDO advice arent covered. But, at the time 
Mr R bought his policy, I wouldnt necessarily expect to have seen this exclusion set out in 
the IPID as a main one. 
The IPID isnt a standalone document. The IPID states:
This is a summary of our insurance policy. You will find all the terms and conditions, 
along with other important information, online and in the policy documents.
Mr Rs policy terms and conditions say, in what I think is very clear and prominent language, 
that cancellation of a trip due to FCDO advice isnt covered under the cancellation section of 
the policy. I therefore dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances to ask 
URV to disregard these contractual terms and pay Mr Rs claim regardless. 
So, I wont be changing my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman