DRN-3098866
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the advice given by Better Retirement Group Ltd trading as FIDUCIA 
PROSPERITY (BRG) to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a to a self-invested personal pension plan, and to invest through SVS 
securities acting as a Discretionary Fund Management (DFM) arrangement. She says the 
advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mrs S approached BRG in November 2018 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. 
BRG completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs Ss circumstances and 
objectives. BRG also carried out an assessment of Mrs Ss attitude to risk, which it deemed 
to be low medium or 5/10. 
On 19 December 2018, BRG advised Mrs S to transfer her pension benefits into a SIPP and 
invest the proceeds through a Discretionary Fund Management (DFM)
Arrangement with SVS.  
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
Mrs S had sufficient long term/alternative income from elsewhere to provide for her 
financial needs throughout retirement;
The estimated growth required to match benefits in the DB scheme were reasonable 
considering the risk she was willing to take;
Mrs S demonstrated an immediate need for tax free cash (TFC) but didnt want to 
take an income yet, which wasnt possible in the DB scheme;
Mrs S had non-dependent children who she wanted to benefit from any remaining 
funds upon her death, this wasnt possible in the DB scheme;
The transfer value of the DB scheme was an at all-time high, and any transfer value 
could be reduced in the future.
Mrs S accepted the recommendation and the cash equivalent transfer value CETV of 
£93,842.40 was transferred to the SIPP. Mrs S took TFC of £23,460.60 in February 2019.
In May 2020, Mrs S received a letter from LC, a business insolvency and recovery firm, 
explaining that SVS had been placed into special administration which made her aware of 
potential unsuitable and high-risk investments SVS had been making.
Mrs S complained in 2020 to BRG about the suitability of the transfer advice because she 
felt that she had made it clear that she had a low appetite for risk, and had been given poor 
advice which meant she had lost out financially.
BRG didnt uphold MRS Ss complaint. It said that while it agreed SVS invested incorrectly 
and too high risk for her, it wasnt responsible. It directed Mrs S to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS). The FSCS then referred Mrs S to our service to consider 
BRGs involvement as it was the regulated advice firm that advised upon the transfer and the 
subsequent investment with SVS.
An investigator upheld the complaint and required BRG to pay compensation. They said that 
the advice given by BRG to Mrs S to transfer her pension, and subsequently invest through 
SVS into a DFM was unsuitable.
BRG disagreed, saying that it has provided suitable advice to Mrs S while taking into 
account her personal circumstances  and that it had been mis-lead by SVS, although it had 
undertaken extensive due diligence.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, saying that no new information 
had been provided by BRG in response to the view, so the complaint was referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, BRG should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mrs Ss best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in her best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how BRG could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar rates were 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst BRG weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable 
for a typical investor.Mrs S was 55 at the time of the advice and stated that she wanted to retire at age 60. While 
BRG carried out a pension transfer analysis, including the transfer value comparator (TVC), 
it did so based on Mrs S retiring at age 56. The critical yield required to match Mrs Ss 
benefits at age 56 was over 50% if she took a full pension. And the TVC showed that it could 
cost her £134,015.77 to provide the same income as her DB scheme through a defined 
contribution pension scheme.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 2.25% per year for one year to retirement and 3.1% per year for five years to retirement. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
BRG says that Mrs S had a high medium attitude to risk. But Ive seen two risk 
assessments that it completed with Mrs S, one of which came out as low medium or 5/10 
(the client review form) and the other as high medium or 6/10 (the risk profile report). The 
suitability report uses both terms and there appears to be little difference between these two 
assessments. But for clarity, given Mrs Ss experience of investing, her capacity for loss, and 
her investment horizon, I think that a medium attitude to risk is a fair representation of 
Mrs Ss situation.
I've taken the discount rates into account, along with the composition of assets in the 
discount rate, Mrs Ss medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would 
be little point in Mrs S giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB scheme only 
to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the critical 
yield was 50% and she needed her fund to grow by over £40,000 in less than a year to be 
able to provide the same benefits as her DB scheme, I think Mrs S was likely to receive 
benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, even if she 
took a higher risk with her funds. However, when BRG summarised the reasons for its 
recommendation, it said that the growth required to match the benefits in the existing 
scheme was achievable  I think this was seriously misleading.
BRG didnt do a TVC based on Mrs Ss actual intended retirement age of 60. And I think it 
should have done so that she understood by how much her pension fund would need to 
grow in five years to replicate the benefits she was giving up. In the absence of this 
information, Im not persuaded that Mrs S was likely to be able to exceed the income 
available through the DB scheme if she started drawing funds at age 60 either.
BRG suggests that Mrs S would be investing for the long term, but given that Mrs S was 55 
and her desired retirement age was 60, I cant see how the investments would have a long 
time to grow before she would start to draw on them  especially to the extent that would be 
required to reach or exceed the benefits provided by the DB scheme she already had in 
place. 
BRG also argues that the TVC and critical yield arent particularly relevant because Mrs S 
didnt intend on purchasing an annuity. It said it demonstrated that if the fund grew by 5% 
(gross) Mrs S would be able to withdraw the same income as her DB scheme provided at 
age 65 and the fund wouldnt be depleted until age 85. But Mrs S told BRG she wanted to 
retire at age 60 and the discount rate was 3.1% for five years to retirement  so I dont think 
that growth of 5% was actually very likely based on Mrs Ss term to retirement. And even if 
I were to accept that growth of 5% was achievable in the short-term, BRG has shown that 
Mrs Ss fund would be depleted by age 85. So, if she lived longer than expected, or there 
was a period of poor investment performance, there was a real possibility that Mrs Ss funds could run out sooner than expected. So overall, I think it ought to have been clear to BRG 
that Mrs S was likely to be worse off financially if she transferred out of the DB scheme. 
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mrs Ss best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as BRG 
has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility
I can see that BRG considered Mrs Ss capacity for loss and taking into account the other 
assets Mrs S said she had in place, BRG thought she had capacity to absorb some losses 
should they occur from the pension transfer. But while I can see that Mrs S may have been 
able to absorb potential losses  I cant see that this was reason enough for Mrs S to make 
the transfer as BRG has suggested, given that it was already shown to be very likely be 
worse off by making the transfer. Furthermore, Im not persuaded that BRG carried out 
sufficient analysis of Mr and Mrs Ss other pensions compared with their income needs in 
order to determine whether it was in Mrs Ss best interests to give up her guaranteed 
benefits.
BRG noted that the reasons for Mrs S wanting to make the transfer was access to TFC for a 
variety of reasons including topping up savings, purchasing a car and home improvements. 
However, BRG failed to establish how much Mrs S actually required to meet this need. The 
fact that some of the TFC would be used to top up savings suggests that less than the 
£23,000 available to her was actually needed immediately. I think this was an important fact 
that BRG needed to establish in order to demonstrate that it knew its client. And its hard to 
see how suitable advice could be provided without knowing this. 
In BRGs suitability letter, it set out one of the reasons justifying the reasons for the transfer 
as;
You have an immediate need for tax free cash but not to take an income. And option not 
available from your existing scheme
 
You have a need for flexible income to allow you to retire from your intended retirement age 
which is not an option with your existing scheme.
This seems contradictory  on one hand saying that Mrs S didnt need to take an income, 
but also that she required a flexible income. Mrs Ss other assets were previously used to 
show that she didnt need to rely on the DB scheme to provide an income  but BRG then 
suggests that she needed to make the transfer in order to access these benefits in a flexible 
arrangement for her retirement income.
But as Ive explained above, it had already been determined that a loss would be likely if 
Mrs S transferred out of the scheme. So I fail to see why the general lifestyle motives BRG 
set out demonstrate a genuine financial need for the TFC  and Mrs S and her husband 
already had assets they could have utilised to fulfil these objectives without taking the risk 
that had already been determined.
Mrs S ended up taking around £23,000 as TFC, but she already had access to this sum in 
savings. It doesnt seem that Mr and Mrs S wanted to use the savings to meet their need as 
they considered it to be emergency cash  although significantly, any discussion around 
using their existing savings is missing from the suitability report. BRG also noted that Mr and 
Mrs S had significant disposable income, over £3,000 per month. So, if Mr and Mrs S had 
instead used their savings to meet their objective of purchasing a car and helping pay for home improvements, they could have easily rebuilt their savings quite quickly. I dont think it 
was suitable advice to give up the guarantees associated with Mrs Ss DB pension to access 
a sum they already had available to them.
In the suitability report I appreciate that BRG noted Mr and Mrs S didnt want to take on any 
lending to meet this need. But it isnt clear why that is. Mr and Mrs S had a very small 
mortgage and substantial disposable income. So, I think re-mortgaging or taking out a small 
loan should have been given more thorough consideration, particularly as interest rates were 
low at the time and the sum they required appears to have been small. To my mind, 
sacrificing a guaranteed pension income ought to have been the last option, after giving full 
consideration to the alternatives, including providing Mrs S with the costs of taking a loan or 
re-mortgaging. I also note that Mr S had substantial personal pension fund, and assuming 
they were flexible arrangements (or if not he could have switched one of the plans to a 
flexible plan) hed have been able to access his TFC in less than two years, meaning any 
borrowing could be quickly paid off if required. 
For completeness, I should also say that I dont think BRG did an adequate analysis of 
Mr and Mrs Ss income requirements in retirement.
BRG concluded that Mrs S didnt need to rely on the income provided by her DB scheme, 
saying she saw it as a bonus. Although BRG established that Mr and Mrs S wanted around 
£36,000 per year in retirement, I dont think it was in a position to know whether this was 
achievable. While BRG knew the size of Mr Ss funds, it didnt ask Mrs S for any details of 
her current pension (apart from knowing her current contributions and her length of service). 
So, it didnt know how much income she was entitled to from her current employers pension, 
and whether this, combined with Mr Ss fund was sufficient to meet their needs until their 
state pensions became payable. Without knowing this, I dont think BRG was in a position to 
determine that the guaranteed income from Mrs Ss DB scheme wasnt needed. To my mind, 
Mrs S should not have been advised to risk this pension at all, particularly as Mr Ss 
pensions were subject to investment risk.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. This was another reason why BRG 
recommended the transfer due to the lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal 
pension. But when looking at the answers Mrs S gave in regard to death benefits, she stated 
the following;
Provide for my family in the event of my death  no
My dependants will receive significant sums upon my death and whilst a great amount might 
be beneficial, it is not an absolute priority for me.
So, I cant say that this was a significant reason for BRG to recommend the transfer.
The priority here was to advise Mrs S about what was best for her retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think BRG 
explored to what extent Mrs S was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for higher death benefits  especially as this does not seem to have been a 
priority for her given what she already had in place.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mrs S 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to her spouse if Mrs S predeceased him. I dont think BRG made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mrs S. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
And as BRG demonstrated, Mrs Ss fund was likely to be depleted if she lived longer than 
85. In any event, BRG should not have encouraged Mrs S to prioritise the potential for higher 
death benefits through a personal pension over her security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mrs S genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for her spouse or children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of her pension fund remained on her 
death, I think BRG shouldve instead explored life insurance. I appreciate that the suitability 
report mentioned a whole of life policy  this was discounted because Mrs S would bear the 
cost of this rather than the pension fund. But it appears Mr and Mrs S already had life 
insurance providing cover of over £700,000, although it isnt clear when this cover expired. 
So, they may have already had sufficient means in place to meet this need. Either way, 
I think insurance ought to have been explored further if Mrs S genuinely wished to leave 
extra money to her children on her death. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs S. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
Use of DFM 
BRG recommended that Mrs S use a DFM to manage her pension funds. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mrs S, 
it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This 
is because I think Mrs S should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
DFM would not have had the opportunity to manage her funds if suitable advice had been 
given to her at the outset.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mrs S. But BRG wasnt 
there to just transact what Mrs S might have thought she wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mrs S needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs S was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs S was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mrs S shouldnt have been advised to transfer out 
of the scheme just to achieve lifestyle goals which couldve been funded in other ways, and 
the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with 
her DB scheme.
So, I think BRG shouldve advised Mrs S to remain in their DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs S would've gone ahead anyway, against BRG's 
advice. But if this was the case, BRG could have followed an insistent client process. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mrs S wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against BRGs advice. I say this because Mrs S was an 
inexperienced investor with a medium attitude to risk. And it doesnt seem to me that Mrs S 
needed to access her pension, rather she was enquiring with BRG about what she should do 
with it, having only recently become aware of it. Im not persuaded that Mrs Ss concerns 
about accessing TFC were so great that she wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise she had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it 
was suitable for her or in her best interests. If BRG had explained how valuable the 
guaranteed benefits were and explained that Mrs S could meet her objectives without risking 
her guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think 
Mrs S would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think BRG should compensate Mrs S for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
SVSs responsibility for the loss
BRG has argued that SVS has also separately caused some of Mrs Ss loss. So, I have 
considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for compensating the 
loss to BRG. In the circumstances, though, I think it fair to make an award for the whole loss 
against BRG.
BRG should not have recommended Mrs S transfer out of her DB scheme. And it was only 
as a result of BRGs involvement that Mrs S transferred the funds held in her DB scheme. 
BRGs role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully reliant on the funds being 
transferred first. If that hadnt happened, Mrs S couldnt have invested as she did. So, in my 
view, the entirety of Mrs Ss loss stems from BRGs unsuitable advice to transfer away from 
her DB scheme.
For this reason, I think holding BRG responsible for the whole of the loss represents fair 
compensation in this case.
FSCS compensation
Im aware Mrs S may be able to take her claims about SVS to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
As a scheme of last resort, its possible the FSCS wont pay out if a third party could also be 
held liable. This means requiring BRG to pay only part of the losses could risk leaving Mrs S 
out of pocket. But I think its important to point out that Im not saying BRG is wholly 
responsible for the losses simply because SVS are now in liquidation. My starting point as to 
causation is that BRG gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses Mrs S 
suffered in transferring her existing pension to the SIPP and investing as she did. That isnt, 
to my mind, wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts of the case and my view of the fair 
and reasonable position.
With this in mind  and recognising also that Mrs S wouldnt have lost out at all but for BRGs 
failings and that BRG benefitted financially from advising on this transaction  I think holding 
BRG responsible for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
Ive also thought about whether its fair to award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish BRG  which is the job of the
regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical impact this had on 
Mrs S.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I considered
whether the impact of BRGs actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. 
Its clear to me that this was the case here. In recognition of this I think BRG should pay 
Mrs S £150 for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced here.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the BRG to put Mrs S, as far as possible, into 
the position she would now be in but for BRGs unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs S would 
have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
BRG must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mrs S has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on her normal retirement age of 60, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ss acceptance of the decision.
BRG may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Ss 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ss SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mrs S within 90 days of the date BRG receives notification of 
her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BRG to pay Mrs S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
BRG pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Better Retirement 
Group Ltd to pay Mrs S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Better Retirement Group Ltd to pay Mrs S any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Better 
Retirement Group Ltd to pay Mrs S any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Better Retirement Group Ltd pays Mrs S the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs S.
If Mrs S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Better Retirement 
Group Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman