DRN-2741678
The complaint
 Ms Ds case, in its entirety, is based on the complaints she made in 2017 and 2018 about 
Advanta Wealth Ltd (AW), about another firm called One Wealth Management Ltd (OW) 
and about three specific individuals who she submitted as being common to both firms. One 
of the individuals was her investment adviser (the adviser) in both firms.
This decision is only about AW  for reasons addressed below. Ms Ds submissions to this 
service on 19 March 2021 helpfully detailed (and, separately, summarised) her claims 
against AW. She says:
AW mismanaged documentation for her investments, presented incomplete and 
inappropriate documents to her and deprived her of some documents related to her 
investments. [issue 1]
AW committed failures in its fee reporting, including its omissions of fees charged, 
erroneous fees charged and unexplained fees (and unexplained fee errors). [issue 2]
The adviser, under AW, conducted himself inappropriately in terms of his client care 
towards her, including his behaviour in a Trust related matter within her portfolio and 
including his overall approach towards and conduct within meetings. [issue 3]
AW did not provide her with transparency on and information about the structure of 
her portfolio. [issue 4]
What happened
Background 
Ms Ds business relationship with OW began around 2014. In April 2015 her portfolio was 
still being serviced by OW and the adviser was also still with OW. She refers to contact from 
him late in this month, during which he said he was moving to AW and that, with her 
agreement, her portfolio would do the same. She refers to his assurance that everything will 
remain exactly the same and that she did not need to sign a new service contract with AW. 
Ms D says the transfer took place on 1 July 2015. It remains her claim, within the present 
complaint, that OWs liabilities for her portfolio were novated to AW in the course of the 
transfer. She refers to OWs confirmation of this to her and she requests a determination on 
this by this service  because a positive determination will alter the complaint against AW by 
adding the claims she made/makes against OW. 
But for such a positive determination, this service has already confirmed to Ms D that none 
of her claims against OW will feature in our treatment of her complaint against AW, as both 
are distinct and separate firms and AW holds no responsibility for OWs actions (or 
inactions).
Ms D has provided portfolio and servicing related background/context that can be 
summarised as follows:
Her portfolio consisted of a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), an Individual 
Savings Account (ISA), a General Investment Account (GIA), two Trusts (T1 and 
T2) of which she was joint trustee and sole beneficiary, a number of offshore bonds 
and a number of bank accounts. Aside from OW (and then AW) the portfolio involved 
a third-party platform provider firm and third-party fund and bond provider firms and 
fund managers. 
No investment recommendations were made by the adviser under AW, AW only 
serviced pre-existing investments. All investment recommendations were made, by 
the adviser, under OW. However, Ms D stresses that the adviser and his team were 
consistent and constant during both the OW period and the AW period, so her 
service experience was relatively seamless. She also notes that her business 
relationship with the adviser began (and continued) years before the OW period  in 
around 2012  when he advised her under a different firm.
She moved her portfolio away from AW around December 2016.
Issues 1 and 4
Ms D explains that a need for transparency in her portfolio was triggered by events in April 
2015, in which she says she discovered past significant upfront fees charged by the adviser 
that she had previously been unaware of. 
This happened during the OW period. She says this created an incentive to become properly 
informed about her portfolio, its components and affairs related to both. This has been 
presented as context for issues 1 and 4, both of which broadly relate to Ms Ds pursuit to 
inform herself of and verify documentation for her investments and to do the same for the 
structure of her portfolio and investments. 
Issue 1 essentially alleges that the adviser, under AW, failed to meet all Ms Ds reasonable 
requests for investment/portfolio related documentation in 2015; that she received some of 
the documents from him unduly late (after 2015); that some were incomplete or erroneous; 
that some had to be sought and obtained elsewhere (from relevant third parties); and that 
she eventually gave up on making requests in late 2015. She seeks compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by this and associated costs and loss. In particular, she highlights 
(with reference to correspondence evidence):
The advisers tendency to present incomplete documents for her signature and then 
failure to provide copies of said documents after signature.
The advisers reluctance and failure to provide her with all investment related 
contractual and signed documents following her request on 19 October 2015  
around two and a half months after her initial request of the same.
With regards to issue 4 Ms D refers to her repeated requests for an overview of the structure 
of her investments and to the advisers reluctance (or inability) to meet those requests. She 
considered that his reaction, to the formal requests, contrasted with his tendency to wilfully 
and informally jot down structures for her investments during meetings. She says eventually 
he took the positions that it could not be done, that it could not be done without agreement 
from AWs compliance function (without explanation of why such agreement could not be 
obtained) and that even if it was done he feared it would not answer her questions  and she 
found his overall approach to be obstructive.Issue 2
The same event (and trigger) in April 2015 is relevant to this issue. In addition, Ms D says 
the lack of competently presented and standardised monthly and quarterly fee reports from 
AW made her pursuit for information about fees necessary. She says she found the adviser 
(and information from him) to be unreliable. For these reasons, and despite the advisers 
assurance in September 2015 that all fee information (from the OW period and up to date in 
the AW period) had been disclosed, she arranged to have transactions in the bank accounts 
associated with her investments reconciled and analysed  and then monitored  
independently. She says the notable initial findings, in late 2015, were that:
AW was failing to report some fees, so it was understating the fees she was 
incurring.
Over £8,000 of erroneous fee deductions were identified. AW initially dismissed this 
but eventually, by May 2016, the errors were rectified alongside new fee deduction 
errors that had continued to happen up to the point of rectification and were identified 
thanks to the independent monitoring she had arranged.
Ms D refers to other fees reporting issues, including unclear and inconsistent monthly and 
quarterly fee reports with incorrect dates, missing totals information and missing year-to-
date information; a concession, without apology, by AW on 24 August 2015 that a particular 
administration fee had been taken but not reported; an undisclosed investment top-up fee of 
almost £4,000 which had remained hidden until around November 2015; and a £180 
overcharge error in AWs final invoice, which was subsequently corrected.
Ms D says the delay in resolving issue 2 contributed to the delay in moving her portfolio 
away from AW  she did not want to move the portfolio away whilst fees remained 
unresolved because she feared she would face even more obstruction from AW, post 
transfer, if she did.
Issue 3
The Trust related matter in this issue is about T1, which held a legacy from Ms Ds late 
mother, and about what she has described as the advisers insistent and incorrect 
recommendation of reinvestment  that is, the reinvestment in a T2 offshore bond of 
proceeds from the 2014 liquidation of a T1 asset. Treatment of the matter, between both 
parties, continued into late 2015, the relevant act had been executed and needed to be 
rectified in order to avoid a breach of Trust  which Ms D says she was very concerned 
about. 
The matter was eventually rectified but she remains aggrieved about the adviser causing the 
problem, about his lack of accountability for that, about the absence of an apology from him 
and about his limited input towards addressing the breach of trust aspect of the problem  
and not towards the tax implications and penalties associated with retrieving the money from 
the offshore bond that it should never have been in.
In terms of the advisers overall conduct, Ms D describes him as having applied a pressured 
approach towards her, with regards to communications and meetings. She mentions that he 
used irrelevant and non-existent deadlines to rush her decisions, he usually deprived her of 
the breadth of information she should have been given prior to meetings and decisions and, 
in meetings (which, contrary to her requests, were not minuted), he would surprise her with 
information and/or documents she had no prior notice of and apply pressure on her to sign 
such documents. In the context of the complaint against AW, she has referred to some examples of 
communications in late 2015 about an annual review meeting the adviser sought to arrange. 
She says in his email of 22 October he referred to the annual review and said a deadline of 
29 November applied to it; then his email of 29 October referred to incurring costs, which 
concerned her; and then by 10 November it transpired that there was no deadline and no 
charges to incur.
Ms D also refers to the way the adviser responded to her notice, in December 2016, that she 
was moving her portfolio away from AW to another firm. She quoted from his response as 
follows: 
Somewhat strange bearing in mind the performance that has been achieved. I suggest you 
ask them for comparative performance figures over the period since we took over  Shame 
that you did not feel able to speak to me for so long, nor thank any of us for our time nor 
indeed wish us well for the future.
Ms D says she regarded the response to be astonishing and upsetting and that it also failed 
to address transfer related queries (about fees, retention of records and access to the 
investment platform) she had made in her notice.
Ms Ds compensation claim
Ms D wants:
A considerable sum in compensation for the trouble and upset she has endured from 
her negative experiences with the adviser.
Compensation for the values of her time and effort  and those of her partner, who 
conducted the independent analysis and monitoring of fees, and who intervened to 
help resolve some matters with the adviser  in trying to address the problems she 
faced with the adviser. She considers an estimate in this respect to be around 
£10,000.
Compensation for financial loss based on her proposal of a calculation of the savings 
in fees she would have achieved but for the delay in transferring her portfolio away 
from AW. She says such delay was caused by AWs failures (and delays) in 
disclosing information in issues 1, 2 and 4 and by its obstructions in the same.
AWs position on the complaint
In the main, AW says;
Ms D was its client  for its advisory service  between 1 June 2015 and 19 
December 2016. Her original complaint related wholly to OW, so there was no call for 
AW to respond to any part of it and it retains the view that her complaints continue to 
be mainly related to OW. There was no transfer of liability between OW and AW with 
regards to Ms D. It accepts that it could have replied to her to make its position clear 
at the time but the fact that it did not do so had little impact on her.
It has no responsibility for investment recommendations in Ms Ds case.
Its normal service includes an annual review but for her an extended service was 
given  on a goodwill basis and based on a commercial assessment of the relationship  which included a short monthly review and a more detailed quarterly 
review, in addition to the formal annual review.
It disputes issues 1 and 4. Ms D was very assertive in her engagements with AW and 
in her requests for information and documents. It responded comprehensively and 
promptly to her requests, and it has presented correspondence evidence to support 
this stance. Same evidence shows that, contrary to her claims, she was in full 
possession of information about her investments and had the ability to understand 
the information. It also disputes her claim that alleged delays on its part, under issues 
1 and 4, caused a delay in her transferring her portfolio away from AW. It was and is 
standard practice for newly appointed advisers to inform themselves about a clients 
investment by contacting the relevant investment providers directly, so there is no 
merit in her claim that she needed information from AW before transferring her 
portfolio.
Also in relation to issues 1 and 4, Ms Ds portfolio was not as complex and concealed 
as she claims. A pension, an ISA, a GIA and an offshore bond are relatively standard 
and simple investment products for retail clients; T1 and T2 were extant when AWs 
service began; and it would not comment on the numerous bank accounts she 
referred to, other than to say it did not recommend them.
No financial loss exists in Ms Ds complaint. If she claims otherwise, then it cannot 
identify or quantify such loss. Her portfolio performed well during its service period 
and it provided a robust and detailed ongoing service to her and her portfolio. In this 
context and given her allegations, which it disputes, it cannot understand why she 
remained its client for as long as she did, if she was as aggrieved throughout as she 
presently claims to have been.
It disputes issue 2 and asserts that it was not obstructive in terms of Ms D informing 
herself about fees and charges. There is email evidence in which it gave full and 
frank responses to her queries about fees.
The investigators findings
One of our investigators issued two views on the complaint  reflecting a change(s) in the 
complaint issues after this service confirmed that all claims against OW will not form part of 
the present complaint. In his concluding view, he found mainly as follows:
The complaint should be upheld, but not in the manner or at the level of 
compensation that Ms D seeks. 
AW failed, at times, to provide adequate responses to Ms Ds requests. This would 
have caused her trouble and upset with regards to her fee related queries and she 
spent time trying to rectify problems that AW should have addressed without her 
involvement. AW should pay Ms D £300 for the trouble and upset caused to her.
With regards to issue 3 Ms Ds claims may relate to her time with OW, which is 
beyond the present complaint. In any case, it is difficult to determine the issue 
without having been present during the relevant meetings and without documentary 
evidence of what happened during those meetings. With regards to the review 
meeting example that has been cited, it is understandable that the adviser was keen 
for the review meeting to take place in order to ensure the portfolio remained 
suitable. Overall, AWs written communications with Ms D were conducted in a 
professional and cordial manner.There is not enough to say Ms D should be reimbursed any fees that were correctly 
charged and her claim that AW delayed her transfer of the portfolio is not persuasive. 
Upon such a transfer the new firm would have been responsible for liaising with the 
old in order to ensure a smooth transition. It was Ms Ds decision to remain with AW 
for as long as she did and whilst she did AW provided a service  so there is no basis 
for a refund of fees. The fee discrepancies identified by Ms D appear to have been 
rectified and they did not result in a financial loss to her.
Both parties disagreed with the above outcome. 
Ms D retained her original positions on the complaint issues and, in response to the 
investigators view, she mainly said the investigator had omitted to address her assertion 
that OWs service liability had been novated to AW when her portfolio was transferred; the 
award of £300 is welcomed but it falls short of addressing the larger areas of trouble and 
upset caused to her by AW; AWs failure to address her original complaint has not been 
properly addressed; the same applies to issues 1, 2 and 4 and their effect on delaying her 
transfer of the portfolio away from AW; and AWs failure to review suitability of her portfolio 
at the point of transfer has also not been addressed.
AW also retained its original positions on the complaint issues and, overall, it considered that 
the investigators view had denied documentary evidence of its engagements with Ms D the 
weight they deserved. 
AW repeated references to documents in support of its claims that Ms Ds request for 
documents on 6 August 2015 was met on the same date; the documents were re-sent on 17 
August and she confirmed receipt the following day; on 12 September she said she could 
not locate application forms so it re-sent them to her; on 19 October she queried whether (or 
not) she had received everything she had asked for and it was satisfied that she had; it is 
false to say she did not have a summary of her investments, she received monthly, quarterly 
and annual summaries of her investments in reports that were sent to her in the format she 
had prescribed; and the fee problem identified by Ms D and her partner was part of a wider 
problem it had with a fund provider, which affected a number of its clients, and it has 
submitted evidence of its complaint to the fund provider about this. 
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Transfer and Novation
The service contract between OW and Ms D would have been binding only upon both 
parties. AWs letter to Ms D on 1 July 2015 confirmed the transfer of service (service to Ms D 
and her portfolio) from OW to AW. The author was the adviser  who had also moved from 
OW to AW  and he also confirmed that there were no implications of the transfer on his 
ongoing service to her/her investments and no implications on her investments. The 
penultimate paragraph in the letter assured Ms D that the providers of her investments had 
been informed, and the final paragraph invited her to contact the adviser if she had any 
queries.
Transfers of clients and their portfolios between firms  initiated by firms, as opposed to those initiated by clients  are not uncommon in the industry. In some cases, individual 
clients are transferred and in others entire client books are transferred. In the course of such 
a transfer the rights and responsibilities in the original service contract need to be addressed 
actively  not passively  and relevant [legal and contractual] considerations and documents 
arise in this respect.
Each contracting party can potentially assign its rights in a contract. In the context set by the 
present complaint, OW appears to have transferred Ms Ds client business to AW and in 
doing so it appears to have assigned, to AW, its right to Ms Ds client business. Both firms 
are separate and distinct entities, and I have not seen evidence to the contrary. There is no 
call for me to determine the assignment between them  or the terms on which it was done  
because the issue I am addressing is not AWs transfer rights.
The issue arising from Ms Ds novation assertion is AWs post-transfer obligations/liabilities, 
if any, towards her. This is the matter I am addressing. Her rights in the service contract with 
OW would have been matched by obligations/liabilities owed by OW towards her. In other 
words, she would have been entitled to hold OW responsible for the service it provided to 
her. Without a contract with AW that expressly entitles her to hold AW responsible for the 
service previously provided by OW, she cannot reasonably do that. No such contract exists.
The alternative would be an arrangement in which OWs liabilities towards Ms D were 
novated to AW. If that happened, then Ms D could hold AW responsible for OWs past (pre 1 
July 2015) service to her. Novation requires consent across the three relevant parties  the 
transferor firm, the transferee firm and the client whose business is being transferred. In 
other words, the first has to wilfully agree to transfer its client liability to the second, the 
second has to wilfully agree to accept that liability and the client has to wilfully agree that the 
formers responsibility towards him/her can be passed on to the latter. In the absence of 
such tripartite express consent, novation would not have been properly executed.
There is no evidence, in Ms Ds case, of such tripartite express novation consent. Indeed, it 
appears to be Ms Ds evidence that nothing was required from her in the course of the 
transfer in July 2015 and she signed no document pursuant to the transfer. The advisers 
assurances to her related only to the ongoing service, not past service, and I have not seen 
evidence of any assurance given by AW that it would be responsible for OWs past service. 
Even if such evidence (of AWs assurance) existed, the requirement remains for novation to 
have been properly executed with record of consent by all three relevant parties, and there is 
no record of that.
Consequently, OWs pre 1 July 2015 responsibilities towards Ms D  for its service to her 
and her investments up to that date  remained with OW and did not transfer to AW. This 
means the present complaint has the following fixed remit:
Events for which AW was directly responsible; and, mainly, events that happened 
between 1 July 2015 and 19 December 2016, during which AW directly serviced    
Ms Ds portfolio.
General Observation
In broad terms, I agree with the findings made in the investigators concluding views. Having 
said this, and as presented in this decision, I have also considered and provided my own 
reasons for my own findings.
Overall, the balance of evidence shows that the crux of Ms Ds complaint issues mainly 
relate to what I have referred to as the OW period; and/or they relate to matters that began 
during the OW period and spilled into the AW period. I consider this to have been somewhat inevitable given the continuity in service she received from the same individual adviser, who 
moved between the firms at or around the same time her portfolio moved between the firms. 
That continuity of service is not in dispute. As I have addressed above, it falls short of 
establishing a novation of OWs client liability to AW, but it means  as supported by 
evidence  that many of the problems Ms D had with the adviser under AW pre-existed his 
move to AW. Indeed, Ms D is clear that her concerns about her portfolio were triggered, in 
earnest, around April 2015 when she discovered fees she says she was previously unaware 
of. She is also clear that shortly after the discovery the adviser gave notice of the impending 
transfer and by 1 July the transfer had taken place. 
Thereafter, it appears reasonable to say that she was engaged in an exercise of discovery 
related to her concerns, an exercise of what she considered to be damage limitation related 
to her concerns and a pursuit to resolve her concerns before  as she has put it  moving 
her portfolio away from AW in a methodical manner. None of this amounts to a criticism.    
Ms D was entitled to her feelings on these matters and was entitled to confidence in the way 
AW was servicing her portfolio. In addition, none of this amounts to a suggestion or finding of 
complete wrongdoing by AW. I address and determine AWs liability for the complaint issues 
below. The comments in this paragraph (and this sub-section) are intended to show that    
Ms Ds complaint about AW appears to be rooted in underlying problems she had with OW.
I consider the above observation to be important because it is relevant to the findings in this 
decision. The discovery pursuits in issues 1, 2 and 4 happened mainly in the second half, or 
perhaps the fourth quarter, of 2015  with some of the fees related matters in issue 2 spilling 
into 2016 (and early 2017). Issue 3 appears to be mainly about the advisers overall conduct 
between 2014 and 2016, but everything during the OW period is beyond the present 
complaint and it evidence shows that by late 2015 Ms D had become explicitly clear on her 
reservations about meeting the adviser and the adviser was acutely aware that she was 
reluctant to meet him. This mutual understanding continued into 2016.
Overall, the net result is that the remit of the present complaint and the facts within that remit 
limit what can and cannot be considered from the wider and complete case that Ms D has 
presented. The same applies to the findings and to any consideration of compensation (for 
trouble and upset and/or for any financial loss claimed). It is possible that Ms D perceives a 
mismatch between the outcome to the present complaint and the complete case she has 
presented. Unfortunately for her, the core (and majority) of her complete case relates to OW 
and that is beyond the present complaint (and beyond this decision).
Financial Loss
I consider it worthwhile to state that I have seen no evidence of a financial loss in any of    
Ms Ds investments resulting from any of the issues in the present complaint. It is agreed 
that AW has no responsibility for recommending her investments, so financial loss related to 
alleged unsuitability is not an issue. It also appears to be settled that all fee discrepancies 
highlighted by Ms D and her partner were eventually resolved. 
I note Ms Ds claim for the costs of her (and her partners) time and effort in addressing the 
issues with her portfolio. In this service, we would usually consider a claim like this under the 
trouble part of a claim for trouble and upset, and I will do so below. Furthermore, we do not 
usually apply a costing or punitive basis to our consideration of trouble and upset.
Ms D says a financial loss arose from AW causing a delay in her transferring the portfolio to 
a new firm and that the loss could be quantified on the basis of fee savings. First, a finding 
that AW caused the alleged delay is needed and, as I explain below, I am not persuaded 
that it did so. Second, a claim like this will not usually be viewed as a financial loss in this service. In portfolio transfer cases the issue is usually the firms alleged culpability in 
delaying execution of a complainants transfer request. Where such culpability is found, 
detrimental costs of the delay could form part of our compensation considerations. Ms Ds 
case is not comparable to this. 
Post transfer suitability review and AWs failure to address Ms Ds initial complaint
In straightforward terms, the allegation that AW failed to review Ms Ds portfolio following the 
transfer from OW appears to have arisen afresh after the investigators concluding view; 
therefore it does not appear to be a complaint issue that AW has been given the opportunity 
to address; and, because of that, it is not a complaint issue I can reasonably determine.
AW has conceded that it should have sent a response to Ms Ds initial complaint and, I 
believe, it has apologised for not doing so. Aside from that, I agree with the view it took on 
the matter at the time. I have read all the complaints made by Ms D since 2017. Her initial 
complaint to AW was heavily  if not wholly  based on claims against OW and on the 
premise that AW either shared or inherited responsibility for those claims. AW neither had 
nor shared such responsibility, so it is understandable that it appears to have forwarded the 
complaint to OW for OWs treatment.
Issues 1, 2 and 4
The parties are well versed in the details of these issues, so I do not propose to present 
forensic findings on them. This does not suggest that I have not considered the relevant 
details and associated evidence. I have. However, they all relate back to Ms Ds entitlement 
to and pursuit for documentation and information on her investments, to the same on the 
structure of her investments (or at least summary information on the structure of her 
investments) and to the same on the fees she had incurred for the investments (and for 
AWs service); so the presentation of findings on these key areas should suffice.
Soon after the transfer in July 2015 Ms D began to present her requests for information and 
documents. Her submissions to this service include her main evidence of correspondence 
spanning August to October 2015 for issue 1 and partly for issue 4; and the same for issue 2 
(but also extending to February 2016 and then resuming around July/August 2016 and then 
resuming again around January/February 2017, after the portfolio had been transferred to a 
new firm).
Overall and on balance, I am satisfied that Ms Ds enquiries were not frivolous  contrary to 
AWs suggestion that they were. It is clear from her emails that she was sincerely anxious to 
be completely and formally informed about all her investments, the full structure related to 
them and the fees related to them. This was well within her entitlement and, to AWs credit, I 
have not identified any aspect of its responses that said or suggested she was not entitled to 
such information and documents.
I am also satisfied that Ms D put repeated requests to AW for broadly good reasons. I 
understand AWs comment that some documents that had been sent had to be resent to her 
and perhaps in those instances she had overlooked the documents initially sent, but in broad 
terms I do not consider that her repeated requests were made unnecessarily. 
For example, an exchange in October 2015 happened as follows  
On 19 October Ms D said to the adviser  Would you please confirm that you have 
now provided all contractual documents relating to my financial affairs including all 
signed documents and any other terms and conditionsOn 20 October the adviser replied with  I believe so but will need to check with  
as I believe some provider documentation was coming direct to you, e.g. Friends 
Provident policy documents after you had completed the loss of docs form?
Despite the above, Ms Ds partner had cause to revert to the adviser on 29 October 
with a set of 5 enquiries related to inaccuracies in the information/documents 
provided and related to outstanding information. As such, repetition of the request(s) 
appears to have been necessary.
Having said the above, AWs effort to engage with Ms Ds enquiries cannot reasonably be 
ignored. Its responses did not always meet what she (and her partner) had asked for but, in 
broad terms, they appear to have been given as meaningful attempts to address her queries. 
Overall, they do not come across as dismissive of her queries. 
Furthermore, I can understand why AW feels strongly in asserting that Ms D had to be more 
informed about her investments that she claims. I have seen quarterly Year-To-Date 
investment reports for her portfolio from both the OW period and the AW period; the same 
applies to the relatively detailed quarterly Wealth Management Reports for her portfolio; and 
the same applies, in terms of the AW period, to the quarterly fee summary documents. All 
these documents were, respectively, informative. I appreciate that Ms D (and her partner) 
needed clarifications of some aspects and highlighted inaccuracies in other respects, but 
these reports were inherently informative about structure, performance and fees related to 
her investments. It is not uncommon for clients and firms to have to engage in cross 
correspondence in order to achieve clarity on or even corrections of investment related 
reports and I have not seen evidence that Ms Ds experience was an outlier in this respect.
AW could and should have met Ms Ds disclosure requests earlier than it did, better than it 
did and in a more comprehensive fashion than it did. I have not seen evidence that it was 
reasonable for the matters in issues 1, 2 and 4 to be drawn out into late 2015 and, in terms 
of the fee related matters, into 2016 (and even early 2017). I exclude from this comment 
events that happened contemporaneously in 2016 (and 2017) which, of course, could not 
have been addressed before they arose. Otherwise, I consider that complete, 
comprehensive and accurate disclosure of information and documents should have been 
done by AW within August 2015; this includes any reasonable time to correct errors; and 
then Ms Ds instructions on the level of disclosure she wanted thereafter should have been 
met by AW consistently as its service continued.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I uphold issues 1, 2 and 4. However, I have 
not been persuaded to determine an award for trouble and upset above the £300 suggested 
by the investigator. I consider that £300 is a fair and reasonable award in the circumstances 
of this complaint and, as I will mention below, I consider that it also caters for the element of 
issue 3 that I will uphold (below).
Disclosure related cases are not uncommon in this service. Where a respondent firm is 
shown to have unreasonably refused or frustrated disclosure a higher level of trouble and 
upset could be considered. However, this was not the case for Ms D. AW could have done a 
better job of disclosing what she asked for, and it could have done a better job of providing 
accurate information in some respects, but the balance of evidence does not show that it 
frustrated the overall disclosure exercise. 
The time and effort deployed by Ms D and her partner in addressing the issues are 
commendable, but she (and perhaps he) had a vested interest in doing so. The portfolio was 
hers and the time and effort deployed was prompted by her desire to inform herself about 
her investments. She was entitled to do this, but the costs of doing so do not automatically 
apply to a claim for trouble and upset. What can apply is the additional time and effort that could have been saved, but for AWs shortcomings in the disclosure exercise. Separating 
and quantifying this is arguably impossible and doing so carries the risk of making a punitive 
award against AW  which is not the purpose of our trouble and upset awards. That purpose 
is to reflect, overall, the distress and inconvenience caused to a complainant in matters that 
have been upheld within a complaint. On this basis, I consider that £300 is a reasonable 
award.
Issue 3
The Trust related problem was eventually resolved. The adviser (under AW) could have 
explained where responsibility for the problem lay and, if that was with him personally, he 
could have apologised for the problem. I have refrained from making any finding on the 
matter of responsibility for this problem for the obvious reason that it appears to be rooted in 
the OW period and matters in that period are beyond the remit of the present complaint. 
Ms D also highlights that the solution the adviser proposed was incomplete and I understand 
her point. However, mindful of my finding above on her allegation about AW failing to 
perform a post transfer review and given that responsibility to resolve the Trust related 
problem might arguably be said to be twined with responsibility for causing it, I retain the 
same concern about going outside the remit of this decision  and for this reason I make no 
finding on whether (or not) the adviser could have done more to resolve the problem. In any 
case, it appears to be Ms Ds evidence that she had no confidence in him to do so and 
preferred, at the time, to retain a degree of control and oversight  with alternative advice 
and assistance she sought  in addressing it. 
Even if I determined that the adviser should certainly have apologised for this problem I do 
not consider that such a determination would be likely to increase the £300 trouble and 
upset award, because the problem began during the OW period so the adviser would be 
apologising for something done in that period.
In terms of communications and engagements with Ms D, my most notable finding in her 
favour relates to the advisers response to her notice of transfer in December 2016. I quoted 
part of his response above and I understand why she was astonished and upset by it. I 
consider that his response was petty and unprofessional; was below the standard of client 
care Ms D was entitled to expect; and was unwarranted, given that Ms D simply gave notice 
of her decision to transfer and made reasonable enquiries associated with that. Having said 
this, I have not seen evidence that the subsequent transfer was impacted by the response or 
unduly hindered by the adviser  so I consider that the £300 trouble and upset award also 
sufficiently covers the upset caused by his response.
With regards to meetings and communications between Ms D (and her partner) and the 
adviser, the bulk of what she describes appears to have happened during the OW period. As 
I said above, by the time her portfolio was transferred to AW her approach towards her 
investments was different. The same seems to have been the case with regards to her 
approach towards the adviser, so there is ample evidence of her (and her partner) repeating 
 from around mid to late 2015 onwards  her stance about not meeting unnecessarily, not 
meeting without prior notice of the agenda and prior presentation of relevant documents and 
not being pressured to agree or sign documents without reasonable time for consideration. 
By the end of 2015 correspondence evidence shows that this stance had been made very 
clear to, and was clearly understood by, the adviser.
Overall, I am not satisfied that I have seen enough evidence of unreasonable conduct by the 
adviser  in meetings  during the AW period, so I do not consider that this aspect of the 
complaint should be upheld. If, as might be the case, there is such evidence related to the 
OW period it is beyond my remit to determine that.Alleged delay in transferring the portfolio
I agree with AWs position on this issue. It is common in the industry for firms who are in 
receipt of a new/transferred client and portfolio to take it upon themselves to obtain all 
information and documentation relevant to the investments and relevant to the servicing they 
will be applying to the portfolio. This is usually done between transferee and transferor firms 
and/or between the transferee firms and the investment providers and platform providers. 
Express written authority would have been sought by the new firm and obtain from Ms D, 
and then the new firm would have been expected to embark on this exercise. This was 
applicable to Ms Ds case.
Her notice in December 2016 appears to have been a surprise to AW and the adviser. In this 
context, I do not consider that AW was previously aware of her plan to transfer the portfolio 
and/or that it acted to frustrate that plan (which it could not knowingly have done without 
awareness of it). I am not persuaded that the matters in issues 1, 2 and 4 impacted on      
Ms Ds ability to transfer the portfolio in the way that she has described. I can understand the 
logic in resolving problems before effecting a transfer, but there would also have been at 
least equal logic in transferring the portfolio at the point of her loss of confidence in the 
adviser  which appears to have happened around 2015  in order to avoid further 
problems. 
Transferring the portfolio was matter for Ms D to decide at her discretion. Overall and on 
balance, I do not consider that AW prevented her from making that decision or that it 
delayed her decision making process.
Putting things right
  I order AW to pay Ms D £300 for the trouble and upset caused to her by the matters upheld 
above.
My final decision
 Overall and for the reasons given above, I uphold Ms Ds complaint and I order Advanta 
Wealth Ltd to pay her £300 for the trouble and upset caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman