DRN-2787774
The complaint
 Mr A complains that UK Insurance Limited, trading as Green Flag (UKI) damaged his car 
when they recovered it after he claimed on his roadside assistance policy. He is also 
unhappy with the service he experienced. 
What happened
Mr A called UKI when his car had broken down. When the technician arrived he wasnt able 
to fix the car. So he had to arrange recovery. The car was eventually returned to Mr As 
home. The following day, UKI returned to take the car to the garage to be fixed.
Mr A says that his car was damaged during recovery. UKI say that the damage was already 
there before the recovery. So Mr A complained to UKI. 
UKI partly upheld the complaint. They agreed itd taken too long to get to the car and they 
were sorry they couldnt attempt a repair or recovery on the first attendance. They said they 
couldve ordered a taxi for Mr A sooner. They sent £100 for the inconvenience caused. But 
they didnt accept responsibility for the damage Mr A said theyd caused. So Mr A 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint in his first view. But Mr A provided more photos 
which persuaded him that the damage had been caused by the recovery. So he issued a 
final view upholding Mr As complaint and asking UKI to repair the car. He also felt that a 
further £100 should be paid in respect of the poor service. Mr A didnt agree that hed been 
awarded enough for the distress and inconvenience hed been through. And for what hed 
lost because of the damage to the car, which hed sold. UKI didnt agree that the damage 
had been caused by the recovery. So this complaint has come to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my first provisional decision, dated 17 March 2021, I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
The damage
Our role in these complaints is to determine whether the insurance company has considered 
all the available evidence and whether its decision to not pay for the disputed damaged is 
fair and reasonable.  
For me to say UKI should cover the cost of the damage Id need to think it was most likely 
responsible for it. Im persuaded that theres enough evidence to say the damage did most 
likely happen during the recovery. 
Mr A has recently provided photos to this service that he says prove the damage was done 
by UKI. UKI have said that the photos which changed our investigators mind were taken by 
Mr A a year after the call out. They note that the recovery driver didn't notice this damage 
before uplift, and that this is regrettable. But they also note that a photo taken before the 
uplift, whilst the car was on the road on planks of wood, shows the same area protruding 
from the car. They say this photo is proof the damage happened before the uplift. 
Looking at this photo, and the new photo shared by Mr A after the first view was issued, Im 
not persuaded that the damage was visible before the uplift where the alleged damage took 
place. I note UKIs point that the photos are at different angles, but that doesnt persuade me 
that the damage was already there before the lift. 
UKI shared photos of the damage to the underside sill/jacking point with their technical help 
team and internal engineer. Both concluded that the damage wasnt caused by the wood the 
car was left on hitting it as it was loaded on to the second recovery vehicle. UKI also said the 
recovery driver stated the jacking point pad had been pushed along the sill what I did notice 
the underside was dirty and if it had been damaged while loading there would have been 
clean scratches. But Mr A had a different explanation for how the damage occurred. He said 
the plank of wood hit the jacking point and this pushed it through the car. So there wouldnt 
be any fresh scratch marks. He also said that he made the recovery driver aware of the 
damage when this happened. 
I think that the recovery drivers wouldve seen the damage if itd existed before the uplifts. 
The damage hasnt been mentioned in either of the two damage reports. The first report is 
less detailed than the second one. But I can see that Mr A signed the disclaimer to authorise 
the recovery driver to move his car and absolve UKI from any damage caused by that move.
The second report, relating to the second uplift, showed that there was a detailed 
examination of Mr As car. This report showed that the recovery driver noted damage to all 
four sides of the car and the wheels. Mr A signed this report, therefore accepting that the 
pre-existing damage to his car had been correctly recorded. But he didnt sign the 
disclaimer.
I know UKI have said that the damage was missed as the car was low to the ground and a 
kerb made it difficult to see underneath. But I still wouldve expected any prior damage of 
this size to have been noted on the damage report. And its clear a thorough inspection of 
the car was carried out before the uplift.
The recovery driver said the customer signed the techs pda with a scribble for the damage 
report and refused to sign the other sections until the vehicle was on the truck that is when 
he went straight to the jacking pad and told the tech that he had damaged it. But Mr A said 
hed warned the recovery driver that the way the planks were positioned was likely to cause 
damage. And this is the behaviour Id expect when the damage Mr A said he thought would 
happen, did in fact happen. Id expect him not to sign something which exonerated UKI from 
any damage caused by the uplift if he felt that damage was likely to take place given the way 
the uplift was being arranged. I also wouldnt expect the recovery driver to move the car if 
the waiver wasnt signed.
Ive seen the photos before the uplift, showing that the car was balanced on two planks of 
wood. The top piece is clearly not lying directly on the bottom piece. So as Mr A has pointed 
out, when the car was rolled forward, the wood couldve see-sawed and damaged the car. Taking all of the evidence into account, on balance of probabilities I believe this is what 
happened.
UK say that the internal engineers felt this damage wouldve most likely happened from a 
high-speed impact, so couldnt have been caused by an uplift. UKI also say that to date Mr A 
hasnt provided an independent professional opinion to back up his argument. But Mr A has 
sold the car, so its no longer possible to provide an independent professional opinion here.
The damage is to a specific point on the underside of the car. And the photos Ive seen show 
that the position of the uneven planks of wood couldve caused damage to exactly that 
region of the underside of the car. 
On balance of probabilities, Ive seen enough evidence to suggest that UKI shouldve 
accepted responsibility for the damage. So I dont think UKI acted fairly and reasonably 
when it declined to pay for the damage. 
Assessing fair compensation for the damage
As Mr A no longer owns the car which was damaged, I intend to ask UKI to pay him 
compensation for the lost value when he sold the car.
In order to assess the level of compensation I consider fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances of this complaint, Ive asked Mr A to provide further information. He has 
provided the following:
-the price he says he was offered for the car had it not been damaged in the uplift
-the price he eventually received for the car
-the parts and labour cost for the repairs to the car
Mr A has told me he was offered £11,000 for his car, but that the sale fell through when the 
potential buyer saw the damage. I appreciate that Mr A has told us that he was offered 
£11,000 for the car, but theres no evidence of that. So Ill look at the other information 
available.
He said he considered having the car repaired at his own expense. But money was tight as 
he was saving to buy a house, so he didnt have it repaired. Mr A said that he achieved a 
part exchange price of £9,000 for his car in December 2020, and Ive seen evidence of that 
sale.
Mr A has provided an estimate of the repair cost for the car dated March 2021. In total, 
including parts, labour and VAT, this totals £521.80.
Considering the mileage of the vehicle and assuming it to have been in average condition, 
Ive reached the following trade valuations:
Glasss £9,620
CAPs £9,800
Cazana Trade valuation not available
Taking the average of these prices, we get £9,710.
So the repairs wouldve cost £521.80, but Mr A has lost around £710 on the part exchange 
price. As Mr A wasnt in a position to pay for the repairs, I feel he should be compensated for 
the reduction in sale price he eventually achieved.
Based on the estimates available to me, I intend to ask UKI to pay Mr A £710 in 
compensation for not carrying out the repairs to Mr As car for the damage I believe they 
were responsible for. The service
First, I think its important to note that any awards this service makes for distress and 
inconvenience arent designed to punish a business for any wrongdoing  thats the job of 
the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority). But we do expect businesses to 
acknowledge any wrongdoing and make it right.
UKI have acknowledged that there were service issues with the call out. Theyve paid £100 
in compensation for those issues. So I need to see if I feel £100 is fair under the 
circumstances.
Mr A said has complained about the time it took to recover his vehicle, the fact that the first 
technician who attended the call out couldnt help him, and that he wasnt offered a taxi 
earlier. This meant he didn't get home until 4 am when he had to be at work at 8 am. So that 
caused him problems and stress that day. Mr A also noted that the recovery of his car the 
day after the initial call out also took up his time.
UKI explained to Mr A that as his car was in a safe location, they attended other jobs first, as 
if recoveries were required from the roadside or on motorways it might be quite dangerous 
for the drivers of those vehicles. But I can see that it must have been frustrating for Mr A to 
have to wait. And to be given updated arrival times when it was late and the weather was 
cold must have been stressful. On top of all this, Mr A has had to complain in order to get 
UKI to accept its responsibility for the damage to his car. 
Taking everything into account, I think that UKI should pay a further £100 compensation for 
the level of distress and inconvenience it caused. 
UKI agreed with my first provisional decision. Mr A provided additional evidence showing 
hed actually lost £1,710 on his car sale, rather than £710. He also said he felt a total of £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience wasnt enough.
In my second provisional decision, dated 20 April 2021, I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Based on the estimates available to me and the updated information provided by Mr A, I 
intend to ask UKI to pay Mr A £1,710 in compensation for not carrying out the repairs to his 
car for the damage I believe they were responsible for. 
For compensation for distress and inconvenience, I remain of the view I set out in my 
provisional decision. Considering everything, including the level of awards we make, I think 
an additional payment of £100 compensation for this is fair for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr A has suffered. 
Response to my second provisional decision
UKI accepted my decision and Mr A had nothing to add. So I remain of the view I set out in 
my second provisional decision. 
  
Putting things right
 I require UK Insurance Limited to pay £1,710 compensation for the loss in value of the car 
as detailed above. And a further £100 for the distress and inconvenience. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
I require UK Insurance Limited to pay £1,710 compensation for the loss in value of the car as 
detailed above. And a further £100 for the distress and inconvenience theyve caused Mr A.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman