DRN-3794930
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited declined his 
claim on his caravan insurance policy after his caravan was stolen. 
What happened
Mr A stored his caravan at a haulage yard which he thought was secure. When his caravan 
was stolen, he made a claim on his policy for the loss of the caravan and a TV inside it. This 
was declined by Equine and Livestock. It said the storage site wasnt secure as it had been 
accessed by an open gate and there was no sign of a break-in. It said the TV hadnt been 
itemised on the contents list. Mr A was unhappy with this and referred his complaint to our 
service. He said the site was secure and the gate locked at the time of the theft. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought the 
security clause had been sufficiently drawn to Mr As attention when he took out his policy. 
She thought Equine and Livestocks loss assessor had confirmed that the site was secure. 
And she thought a police report, made before the loss assessors, was more persuasive that 
there had been forced entry into the site. 
So she thought Equine and Livestock had unfairly declined the claim. But she thought Mr A 
hadnt declared the TV on his contents list as he should have done. So she thought Equine 
and Livestock had fairly declined to cover this. She recommended that Equine and Livestock 
reconsider the claim for the loss of the caravan and pay Mr A £50 compensation for his 
trouble and upset. 
Equine and Livestock replied that there was no evidence of damage to the lock on the gate. 
It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Equine and Livestock declined the claim because it said the storage site didnt meet the 
security requirements as set out in its policy. Specifically, it said the site gate was left open 
at the time of the theft. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) states that the storage 
site must meet Equine and Livestocks security requirements. These are set out in the policy 
booklet in Appendix 1 where it explains that if the storage location is not approved by 
CaSSOA then it must be:
securely locked area surrounded by a man made structure made of posts of timber, 
concrete or metal connected by wire netting, rails or boards
I think this is a reasonably clear condition stated in the policy. And I think it was sufficiently 
drawn to Mr As attention in his policy documents. And so I think its fair and reasonable for 
Equine and Livestock to rely upon it. 
So Ive considered whether it was fair and reasonable for Equine and Livestock to say that 
Mr A hadnt met the condition. The storage site wasnt CaSSOA approved. But the loss 
assessor stated that:
The Yard itself is secure when the metal gate is locked, access with a vehicle is only 
through the metal gate and the perimeter is secure by a combination of a metal fence and 
walls so you could not get out other than through the gate.
The police attended the site following the report of the theft. They said the site was a secure 
storage yard. So Im satisfied that the storage site complied with Equine and Livestocks 
security requirements when the gate was locked. So I now need to decide whether theres 
evidence that the gate was locked or not at the time of the theft.  
The site owner was able to provide CCTV footage of the site taken on the day of the theft. 
This was identified as a Sunday afternoon. Mr A thought this meant that the site would have 
been closed and locked up and so the thieves must have broken into it. 
But the loss assessor said he had been told that the site was a seven days a week business. 
And he said the gate was left open on occasions for access to the site. The gate was open 
when he visited, thought I think this was because he was expected. So he thought the gate 
must have been open at the time of the theft. 
The loss assessor concluded:
In our opinion there is ample security compared to some sites we visit with a metal fence 
and wall around the perimeter, the security has been compromised by the gate being left 
open which has allowed access to the thieves.
Mr A said the site was manned during working hours. But Equine and Livestock noted that 
no one saw the theft take place and there was no evidence of forcible entry. The loss 
assessor met with the site owner and I cant see that he said there had been any damage 
done to the gate or lock. But this was about six weeks after the theft, and I cant see that the 
loss assessor asked the site owner directly about this. 
The police pointed out that there was a scaffold pole lying on the ground that could have 
been used to break into the site. No damage to the gates lock was mentioned in their report. 
But neither did they refer to the damage reported to the security devices attached to the 
caravan. These were still evident when the loss assessor visited. 
The fact that the police pointed out that the scaffold pole could have been used to gain entry 
implies that they saw evidence of forced entry. The police report further states that the 
thieves broke into the secure storage. 
Equine and Livestock pointed out that a photograph showed the gates catch hadnt been 
damaged. But this was taken six weeks after the theft. So I cant say that this is conclusive 
evidence that the gate hadnt been locked. And I think Equine and Livestock have unfairly 
disregarded the police reports statement that there had been a break in. 
So I think Equine and Livestock unfairly and unreasonably declined the claim because I dont 
think its shown that Mr A hadnt met his policys security requirements. And I think it should 
now consider his claim. 
Mr A was also unhappy that the loss of his TV was also declined. He said he hadnt been 
asked to declare it when he took out his policy. But Ive seen the online journey he made at 
that time. And I can see that he was asked to list such items, but he didnt do so. So I think 
its fair and reasonable for Equine and Livestock to decline his claim for the loss of his TV. Our Investigator thought Equine and Livestock should pay Mr A £50 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by it unfairly declining his claim and not reasonably considering 
the police report. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published 
guidance.
Putting things right
I require The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Reconsider Mr As claim for the loss of his caravan under the remaining terms and 
conditions of his policy, without applying the security exclusion due to the storage site. 
2. Pay Mr A £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of 
his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require The Equine and Livestock 
Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman