DRN-3758029
The complaint
Mr S complains about changes that JDL Wealth Management Limited (JDL) proposed to 
make to the annual serving fee he was being charged. As a result he says that he needed to 
transfer the management of his pension savings to another firm and incurred significant 
costs in doing so.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2022. In that decision 
I explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a 
copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this 
decision, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr Ss original complaint comprised activities that took place between 2013 and 
2021. Although the same financial advisor was providing services to Mr S between 
those dates, the regulated firm for which she worked changed in 2019. So it is right 
that Mr Ss complaint be split so that the two regulated firms remain responsible for 
those parts of the complaint that relate to the time of their servicing of Mr Ss pension 
savings.
So in this complaint I will only be considering the part of Mr Ss complaint that relates 
to the actions of JDL. And that solely relates to the proposed increase in the annual 
servicing fee that was being paid by Mr S.
In October 2020 JDL discussed with Mr S the ongoing servicing charge that he was 
paying. It explained that, historically, it had offered Mr S a discount on its normal 
charge of 0.75%. But it told him that it had made a commercial decision to remove 
this discount across its client base so all customers would be paying the same level 
of fee. Mr S did not agree to that increase and chose to move the management of his 
pension savings to another firm.
In February 2021 Mr S raised a formal complaint with JDL. He asked that it pay the 
costs hed incurred in transferring the management of his pension savings to the new 
advisor.
In 2020 JDL informed Mr S that it intended to increase its ongoing servicing charge. 
Whilst I am sure that information would have been disappointing for Mr S, it is 
something that JDL is entitled to do under the terms of its agreement with him. At that 
time Mr S was free to either agree to pay the new charges, or terminate his 
agreement with the business. I understand that he chose the latter option and 
incurred some costs in moving to another financial advisor. But I dont think those 
costs are the responsibility of JDL.
I have considered that Mr S had received some advice on his pension savings in 
2018, and in particular their use to pay him an ongoing retirement income,. And that 
advice was based on the lower servicing fee that he had been paying at that time. 
I entirely accept that the increase in the servicing fee would have placed a greater 
drag on the investment performance of the pension savings, and so meant that the 
calculations carried out in 2018 were less accurate than if the fee change had been 
anticipated.
But I dont think that means that JDL needed to do anything to revise that advice at 
this time. The advice it had given in 2018 was based on its best assumptions of what 
might reasonably happen in the future. I dont think unforeseen changes to those 
assumptions meant the advice that had been provided was unsuitable. Nor do I think 
the advice provided any assurance to Mr S that the assumptions would continue to 
be valid indefinitely.
So whilst I am sure that both Mr S, and his financial advisor, were disappointed that 
their lengthy relationship had ended in 2021, that cessation took place within the 
parameters of the client agreement that was in place. That agreement allowed either 
party to cease the ongoing advice agreement, and for no further charges to be due. 
But it didnt suggest that JDL should be responsible for any charges that Mr S faced 
in moving the management of his pension savings to another firm.
In summary I think that JDL was reasonably allowed to revise the fees that it charged 
to Mr S for its services. And Mr S was entitled to reject that change and move the 
management of his pension savings to another firm. I dont think that JDL has done 
anything wrong here, so I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. JDL has said that it has nothing further to add. Mr S doesnt agree with 
my provisional findings and has provided some further comments. Although I am only 
summarising here what Mr S has said I want to reassure him that I have read, and carefully 
considered, his entire response.
Mr S says that he thinks it important that both his complaints are considered together. He 
says the actions of the first regulated firm he dealt with had an inextricable link to the 
decisions he made about terminating his relationship with JDL.
Mr S says that when his advisor left her previous firm to join JDL in 2019 he faced a choice 
of whether to move the management of his pension savings with her to the new company. 
He says that he was given assurances that there would be no changes to the terms he had 
previously enjoyed, and signed an agreement to that effect in October 2019.
So he says he was very disappointed, just a year later when he was advised of the increase 
to the servicing fee he was paying. At that time Mr S says he reached the conclusion that the 
advisor was more focussed on the fees the firm would receive rather than looking after his 
interests. He says those actions, when added to the problems hed faced the year earlier in 
needing to pay an additional charge for advice on taking an income from his pension 
savings, killed any trust he had in the relationship. He says he had no option but to find a 
new advisor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having considered what Mr S has said, I am sorry to tell him that I havent changed my mind 
about his complaint. But I would like to comment further on some of the matters that he has 
raised in response to my provisional decision.
I agree that it would be reasonable that I consider the entirety of Mr Ss relationship with the 
single advisor across both complaints. And it is for that reason that I am deciding both 
complaints that have been raised. But whilst I will bear in mind how Mr Ss relationship had 
developed over the years, this decision must focus on the specific actions of JDL.
I have decided that the firm that Mr S was previously advised by didnt do anything wrong in 
terms of the charges that it asked him to pay for its advice when he wanted to start taking an 
income from his pension savings. So, whilst it is clear that the decision of the firm 
disappointed Mr S, I dont think it indicates any breach of any agreement that Mr S had with 
the firm. 
In 2019, when the advisor moved to JDL, Mr S signed a new client agreement. And so it is 
that agreement that governs his relationship, and the actions he later took in terminating the 
relationship. The agreement doesnt specifically provide for any changes to the charges that 
Mr S agreed to pay  in fact the charges are subject to an additional agreement. But it does 
give either party the ability to terminate the agreement by providing seven days notice.
I think it is important that the termination clause I have referred to above does not require 
any reason to be given, by either party, and so wouldnt measure whether any fault has 
arisen. Either party can simply decide to terminate the agreement and move on. So, had 
Mr S refused to pay the increased servicing costs, JDL could have chosen to terminate the 
agreement anyway. I think it unlikely that I would have found the firm at fault had that 
happened.
But in fact it was Mr S that chose to end the relationship, and move the management of his 
pension savings to another advisor. But since I havent found that JDL, or the predecessor 
firm, did anything wrong leading up to that decision, it would be perverse if I found that JDL 
should bear any costs that Mr S incurred as a result of his choice.
So, in summary, I think that JDL was reasonably allowed to revise the fees that it charged to 
Mr S for its services. And Mr S was entitled to reject that change and move the management 
of his pension savings to another firm. I dont think that JDL has done anything wrong here, 
so I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against JDL Wealth Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman