DRN-1612471
 
The complaint
Mr N complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited gave him misleading 
information about the solicitors charging structure of a claim under his legal expenses 
insurance policy, as well as a number of other issues set out below.
Background
Mr N brought a complaint to our service as he was unhappy that DAS wouldnt disclose the 
fixed fee arrangement it had in place with its panel solicitor. Mr N said he needed this 
information in order to meet his responsibility under the policy terms to keep the legal costs 
of pursuing his breach of contract claim low. 
This complaint was considered by an ombudsman at our service who concluded that DAS 
was under no obligation to disclose its commercial arrangements with another firm. And as 
the amount DAS needed to pay the solicitors was, by definition, fixed, he said the fees fell 
outside of any arrangement which the policy would require Mr N to keep low.   
Since then, Mr N has become aware that the panel solicitors are acting under an hourly rate 
 not a fixed fee. Hes raised a complaint, the main points of which are as follows:
1. DAS has misled him in respect to the charging arrangements of the panel solicitors. 
He wants a full explanation, cancellation of all charges made by the panel solicitor 
made against his limit of indemnity, and compensation. 
2. Mr N obtained a legal opinion of his claim from a barrister at his own cost. As the 
opinion was supportive, DAS has reimbursed him for this expense. But Mr N wants 
reassurance that this hasnt been deducted from his limit of indemnity. He says the 
policy terms and conditions state the cost will be paid by DAS  it doesnt say it will 
be included as part of his indemnity limit.
3. Mr N has incurred in the region of £6,000 in taking steps to prepare documents to file 
with the court and protect his position. He wants DAS to reimburse these costs. 
4. DAS has insisted that Mr Ns barrister completes a Claims Management Report 
(CMR) so that it can consider the instruction of the barrister in accordance with its 
terms of appointment. But Mr N says this isnt appropriate as he is managing his own 
claim and conducting the litigation himself. He has offered to fill in the report but DAS 
say it has to be completed by the barrister. 
 
DAS considered the complaint and acknowledged that it gave incorrect information to both 
Mr N and our service about the panel solicitors charging arrangements. It said it had 
recently changed its agreement with the solicitors and that it hadnt intentionally provided 
misleading information. It offered £100 compensation by way of an apology.
Mr N is unhappy that DAS has failed to address his remaining complaint points. So he 
brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
1. DAS has given an explanation as to why incorrect information about the charging 
arrangements was provided previously and offered £100 compensation for what it did 
wrong. Our investigator felt that was enough to put things right and he didnt think it 
needed to do anything more. He said it was unreasonable to expect DAS to deduct 
the panel solicitors fees from the claim as the solicitors had carried out work and 
were therefore entitled to be paid. He didnt think DAS error meant it should be liable 
for these costs outside of the policys indemnity. 
2. Our investigator was satisfied that as the cost of a barristers opinion formed part of 
the claims investigation, it would form part of the costs incurred under the policys 
indemnity limit. 
3. The invoices provided by Mr N relate to his barristers cost of drafting and amending 
the particulars of claim. DAS has indicated that its prepared to pay these costs but it 
wants sight of the particulars beforehand. Our investigator didnt think this was 
unreasonable. He said DAS is entitled to see the work carried out before agreeing to 
pay for it. 
4. Our investigator was satisfied that DAS had a genuine reason for needing a 
completed CMR from the barrister as it addressed matters such as the barristers 
fees and the likely cost of running the claim. He also agreed with DAS that as Mr N 
isnt impartial to his own claim, it wouldnt be appropriate for him to fill out a report 
which is usually completed by the instructed legal representative. However DAS 
agreed that the barrister could, as an alternative, provide a reduced amount of 
information limited to the current facts of the claim; projected legal costs; details of 
offers and strategy and the legal analysis of the claim. 
 
Mr N didnt accept our investigators findings. Hes asked that an ombudsman consider his 
complaint. Hes raised the following additional points:
1. He believes DAS are in breach of section 13 of the Supply of Goods and Services 
Act 1982 which says a business must carry out the service with reasonable care and 
skill. By failing to provide correct information, Mr N says he wasnt able to make 
informed decisions. He says he wouldve opted to use another panel solicitor that 
operated under a fixed fee arrangement in order to protect his indemnity.
2. The policy says DAS will pay the cost of a barrister  not the policy. He believes our 
investigator has failed to take into consideration regulation 7(2) of the Unfair Terms in 
Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 which says that where there is doubt about 
the meaning of a written term, it should be interpreted in favour of the non-drafting 
party. 
3. He believes DAS has the particulars of claim already which were stated in the 
invoices. Furthermore, DAS told him it would not pay any further costs until 
conclusion of the claim. 
4. Mr N says that his barristers opinion already provided addresses the facts and legal 
analysis of the claim. And the likely costs of pursuing it are unknown at this stage. He 
says he may use different appointed representatives at different stages of his claim 
which is normal in any direct access litigation. 
 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ive condensed some of Mr Ns complaints points in summary form in this decision. If theres 
something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored anything  I havent. Rather Ive 
captured the essence of the complaint instead of commenting on each individual complaint 
point.   
Solicitors charging arrangements
Its not in dispute that DAS gave Mr N and our service incorrect information about the fees 
agreed with its panel solicitor. So I dont need to make a finding on whether DAS has done 
something wrong  it has. What I need to decide is whether DAS has gone far enough to put 
things right. And I think it has; Ill explain why. 
Mr Ns policy says that DAS will, on receiving a valid claim, appoint a panel solicitor or in-
house lawyer to act as the appointed representative. Until court proceedings are necessary, 
Mr N doesnt have the freedom to choose his own solicitor. This is a common term of legal 
expenses policies, and it allows DAS to control the costs being incurred to keep them to a 
minimum. To do this, it will have commercial agreements in place with its panel firms setting 
out a fee structure, whether thats an hourly rate or a fixed fee.
I cant see that Mr Ns policy gives him any choice over which panel solicitor is instructed on 
his claim. Nor does it give him any influence over the fee structure of that solicitor. Thats a 
decision for DAS; and its up to it to decide which solicitor on its panel is most suitable. 
Whilst there is a policy requirement for Mr N to keep his legal costs low, I dont think this 
extends to fees that DAS are in control of or has made provisions for in its commercial 
agreements. Rather that term relates to Mr N being mindful of the amount of time his actions 
result in costs being incurred. So for example if he was repeatedly and unnecessarily 
contacting solicitors, that might be seen as a breach of the requirement for him to keep costs 
low.
I appreciate that Mr N wants to protect his limit of indemnity to ensure he gets the most 
cover under the policy for his claim. But Im not satisfied by his argument that had he known 
the solicitors were on an hourly rate, he wouldve asked for alternative representation. I say 
so because this wasnt his decision to make because he wasnt the funder of the litigation; 
DAS was, and in any event, he didnt have the freedom to choose which solicitor was 
instructed at that time.  
That said, I agree that DAS should compensate Mr N for misleading him. And I think the 
£100 offered fairly reflects the impact this incorrect information wouldve had on him. So I 
wont be asking it to do anything more. 
Cost of barristers opinion
Mr Ns policy says that DAS may require him to obtain a barristers opinion at his own 
expense. And if that opinion is supportive, the cost of obtaining it will be paid by us  
defined as the insurers specified in this policy booklet. 
Mr N says this indicates that the cost would come out of DAS pocket, not his limit of 
indemnity. And he says as its ambiguous, it should be interpreted in his favour. I dont agree.The purpose of the policy terms and conditions is to set out what the policy will do -i.e. what 
it will cover and what it doesnt. So I think its implied that when the booklet refers to 
something being covered or paid, this means by the policy and not by DAS personally. 
Throughout the document, reference is made to we and us which means DAS as the 
insurers. So where the policy says we will pay.. and we will cover  or in this case paid 
by us  I think its clear this means DAS in its capacity as the insurer of the policy. 
The policy is clear that DAS will pay up to £50,000 for a claim, in its capacity as the insurer. 
This is in respect of all costs incurred as part of the claim, provided they are covered under 
the policy. The policy covers the cost of a barristers opinion if supportive of Mr Ns claim and 
DAS has agreed to reimburse him for his expense. Looking at whats happened in this case I 
think its in line with the policy terms and fair for that payment to come out of Mr Ns 
indemnity limit. And I dont agree that there is any ambiguity over whether this comes out of 
a separate pot of money unrelated to Mr Ns claim.    
Mr Ns legal costs incurred
DAS say its not prepared to pay the barristers invoices for drafting the particulars of claim 
until it has seen the document itself. I dont think this is an unreasonable request. If DAS is 
going to pay for costs of carrying out work, its fair for it to see the completed work 
beforehand. 
Mr N says DAS has seen this document, but I havent seen anything to show me that this 
was sent to DAS. Nor was it included within DAS business file. So Im not persuaded it has 
seen a copy. 
If Mr N provides this to DAS, Id expect DAS to consider it as part of Mr Ns overall costs. If 
DAS wants to pay all of those costs at the conclusion of the claim after a full costs 
assessment, its entitled to do so. That might mean that Mr N might need to wait sometime 
before hes reimbursed for anything hes paid, but thats usually the way legal expenses 
insurance policies operate and Ive seen nothing to suggest this one is any exception. 
The appointment of Mr Ns barrister
DAS requires Mr Ns barrister completes a CMR so that it can consider the instruction of the 
barrister in accordance with its terms of appointment. 
I understand that Mr N objects to this because hes managing his own claim but hes not a 
legal professional with the expertise required to predict the costs the barrister is likely to 
incur in the litigation, nor is he funding the litigation. A CMR will enable DAS to consider 
whether the costs the barrister intends to charge are reasonable at each juncture and in line 
with what it would expect to fund. 
And I can see that DAS has offered Mr N with an alternative to keep his barristers costs in 
completing a CMR low. Its agreed to accept a reduced amount of information limited to the 
current facts of the claim; projected legal costs; details of offers and strategy and the legal 
analysis of the claim. Thats not unreasonable. And given Mr Ns legal opinion already 
provides a legal analysis of the claim, it shouldnt be difficult or onerous for that to be 
incorporated into the CMR so DAS can consider this alongside the other information it has 
asked for.
Finally, I dont agree that the costs of pursuing the action to conclusion are unknown. The 
courts will require Mr N to provide a cost projection to conclusion and so will DAS as the 
funder of the litigation. If Mr N isnt sure whether he wants to use his barrister to act for him, then hell need to decide who will and how much this will cost before DAS can agree to the 
fees hes proposing to incur. Without this information, I dont think its reasonable for DAS to 
agree to the open-ended instruction of his barrister. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman