DRN-2901524
The complaint
Mr I complains N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance (Northridge) has 
supplied him with a motorhome that he believes wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
 In January 2020, Mr I acquired a brand new motorhome which he financed through a 60 
month hire purchase agreement with Northbridge. The cash price of the motorhome was 
£49,500 and he made a cash deposit of £19,500. He was required to make 59 payments of 
£575 with a final payment of £585.
Mr I said upon collecting it, he noticed a few issues such as paint chips, a dent on the 
dashboard and scratches on the bumper. As the dealership said they would rectify them, he 
proceeded with the collection. However later that day, he reported the heating wasnt 
working. He arranged for a third party to fix it but despite the heating system being replaced 
it failed to work so Mr I said he returned it to the dealership and they fixed it.
From March 2020, Mr I complained about a number of issues to the dealership and 
Northridge. In summary, he reported them as follows:
- mattress wasnt the same as the one shown on display;
- wardrobe door was bowing;
- rear panel of the storage compartment was damaged;
- shower bracket was loose;
- sealant around the shower and toilet was faulty which caused a water leak;
- kitchen sink wasnt draining properly;
- loose knob on the cooker;
- stones underneath the vinyl;
- partition panel in the shower area was faulty and the trim was coming off;
- blinds on the main door were broken;
- the extra inverter hadnt been fitted correctly;
- drivers window scratched
- faulty garage door.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr I said he had difficulty returning to the dealership for the 
motorhome to be inspected but it was eventually returned in June 2020. The dealership 
considered the issues to be cosmetic and carried out repairs under warranty. Although it 
wasnt possible to replace the garage door at the time, they confirmed it had been ordered 
and would be replaced. The repairs took approximately a week and during this time, Mr I 
said he had to hire a van to store his personal belongings and find alternative 
accommodation. 
When the motorhome was returned, Mr I said faults remained and he was unhappy with the 
standard of the repairs, he stated some issues hadnt been rectified and further damage had 
been caused. He returned the motorhome to the dealership the next day and complained to 
Northridge saying he wanted to reject it. 
An independent inspection was carried out in July 2020. It concluded the motorhome had 
some faults but they were snagging issues that could be rectified by the dealership. It 
commented motorhomes are primarily built by hand so its common to find such problems. It 
concluded the issues didnt affect the use of the motorhome and overall it was fit for purpose 
and was of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
Northridge relied on the findings of the inspection to find the motorhome was of satisfactory 
quality. They also commented Mr I was using it for permanent residency rather than 
recreational use and this had contributed to its overall condition. They didnt allow the 
rejection as they felt the repair in June 2020 was a reasonable remedy.
Mr I disputed this and arranged his own independent inspection in August 2020. The 
inspection report reached a different outcome. It said the motorhome was in a poor, 
unsatisfactory and unsafe condition. It accepted many faults had been fixed to a satisfactory 
standard but commented many still remained. It raised concerns about the structural integrity 
around the chassis being compromised as the support brackets had no securing devices 
fitted safely to support the habitation unit. It also said the wiring had been fitted poorly which 
was a potential fire hazard. It concluded the motorhome wasnt fit for purpose and wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. 
Mr I referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator recommended the case was 
upheld. They believed the motorhome wasnt of satisfactory quality and Mr I should be 
allowed to reject it and end the agreement. They said Northridge should also do a number of 
other things to put things right such as refunding the contractual payments from June 2020 
onwards, refund £2,231 for costs incurred and refund the cost of the second inspection.
Northridge disagreed. They said repairs had been carried out to an acceptable industry 
standard as highlighted in the first inspection report. They said Mr I returned the motorhome 
following the repair in June 2020 and declined to take it back and thats why he hadnt had 
use of it. Lastly, they maintained Mr Is use of the motorhome as a permanent residence 
goes against the manufacturers handbook which said its for recreational use only.
Since June 2020, the motorhome has remained at the dealership and Mr I said he declared 
it SORN (statutory off road notification) but he continues to insure it.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Is complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr I acquired a motorhome under a regulated hire purchase agreement. Northridge is the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a 
complaint about the supply and the quality of the motorhome.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a motor 
vehicle, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include 
things like the age and mileage at the time of supply and the vehicles history. In this case, Mr I was supplied with a new motorhome so it would be reasonable to expect the quality of it 
to be higher than a more well used one.
Based on the evidence of job cards and the findings of the inspection reports, its clear there 
were a number of faults with the motorhome and these were reported within the first six 
months of Mr I acquiring it. I believe a reasonable person would expect a new motor vehicle 
to be free from defects (including minor or cosmetic) for a considerable amount of time. In 
this case, I wouldnt expect a new motorhome to experience such issues so soon after 
supply.
Northridge said as Mr I was using it as a permanent residency, this had contributed to the 
wear and tear of the motorhome. However in this decision Im required to consider whether 
the motorhome was of satisfactory quality when supplied therefore I dont consider Mr Is use 
of it to be a significant factor, especially as he had only covered over 3,000 miles and neither 
report said the faults were mainly due to how Mr I used it.
Ive carefully considered the reports of both inspections and having done so, Im most 
persuaded by the second one. I say this because unlike the first one, which appeared to 
have focused on the faults specifically raised by Mr I, the second report was a full vehicle 
examination which considered the motorhomes overall condition. So I believe its 
reasonable for me to rely on the findings of this report which provides a thorough detail 
about the faults. On balance, I believe there were inherent faults with the motorhome which 
were present and/or developing at the point of supply meaning it wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when Mr I acquired it. 
In cases like this where there has been a breach of contract, the CRA allows one opportunity 
for repair and this is what happened, repairs were carried out in February 2020 (the heating 
system) and in June 2020 at no cost to Mr I. However Mr I maintained faults remained and 
the second inspection report confirmed the same. Therefore I cant say the motorhome is 
conforming to the contract and it doesnt appear the previous repairs have resolved the 
faults. 
Under the CRA, if the first repair is unsuccessful and its clear the vehicle isnt of satisfactory 
quality, the consumer is allowed to reject the vehicle. Given what has happened so far, I 
believe this should apply here and Mr I should now be allowed to reject the motorhome. 
Following the findings of the second inspection, I believe it wouldve been fair for Northridge 
to have allowed the rejection sooner, around August 2020.
To put things right, the finance agreement should be ended, the motorhome collected at no 
cost to Mr I and the deposit amount refunded.
Mr I stopped using the motorhome in June 2020 and I believe it was reasonable for him to 
do so. I say this because the second inspection identified a number of outstanding faults 
including concerns about the structural integrity of the chassis and the potential fire hazard 
due to the wiring. Its clear Mr I lost faith in the motorhome and its for these reasons he 
stopped using it. I believe a reasonable person wouldve acted the same given the number 
and the extent of the faults identified. However since that time, he has continued to pay for it 
although hes had no use or benefit of it. So, I agree with the investigator that Northridge 
should refund the monthly payments from June 2020 to the date of settlement to reflect the 
loss of use of the motorhome.
Mr I has provided documents to show he has kept the motorhome insured as per the terms 
of the agreement. As he hasnt had the benefit of using it, I believe Northridge should also 
refund the cost of the insurance premiums from August 2020 (when the second inspection was carried out) to the date of settlement as I believe this was the date they shouldve 
reasonably allowed rejection. 
Mr I said he incurred additional costs which he wants to be compensated for. He arranged 
his own inspection report, which confirmed the motorhome wasnt of satisfactory quality, so I 
believe Northridge should reimburse him for the cost of this report, which was £1,500. A 
copy of this invoice will be provided to Northridge.
In regards to the costs for renting a van to store personal belongings while the June 2020 
repairs were carried out and paying for alternative accommodation. I dont consider such 
costs wouldve been reasonably foreseeable by Northridge as a result of the motorhome not 
being of satisfactory quality, so I wont be asking them to refund these costs. 
Ive taken into account the impact this situation has had on Mr I due to the inherent faults 
with the motorhome. Im sorry to hear he experienced several issues and it didnt perform as 
expected. There is no doubt there were issues which I dont believe a reasonable person 
would expect to occur for a new vehicle. He had to return to the dealership on at least two 
occasions, he arranged his own independent inspection, had been in regular communication 
with Northridge to get the matter resolved. Ive also believe it wouldve been reasonable for 
Northridge to have allowed the rejection sooner and because they didnt, this caused further 
inconvenience. In light of the same, I believe Northridge should pay £200 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Is complaint.
To put things right, N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance must:
- End the agreement with nothing further for Mr I to pay;
- Arrange collection of the motorhome at no cost to Mr I;
- Refund the deposit amount*;
- Refund the contractual payments from June 2020 up to the date of settlement*;
- Refund the cost of the insurance for the motorhome from August 2020 up to the date of 
settlement*;
- Refund £1,500 for the cost of the independent inspection as arranged by Mr I*;
- Remove any adverse information about this hire agreement from Mr Is credit file;
- Pay £200 compensation to Mr I for the trouble and upset caused.
* Northridge should also pay 8% simple interest per year on all the above refunds calculated 
from the date of payment up to the date of settlement.
If N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr I how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr I a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Simona CharlesOmbudsman