DRN-4237033
The complaint
Mr B complains about how HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) has handled his claim on his pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B bought a pet insurance policy for his dog that was underwritten by HDI in May 2022.
In November 2022, Mr Bs dog needed veterinary treatment for a dental cyst. Mr B made 
three claims on his pet insurance policy for his dogs treatment.
HDI paid the first two claims but, when Mr B made the third claim, HDI turned it down. When 
HDI did this, it also said it had paid Mr Bs first two claims in error. HDI said this was 
because there was a term in Mr Bs policy saying that, for the first 12 months of the policy, 
his dog wasnt covered for dental treatment that resulted from illness. HDI asked to be 
reimbursed just over £1,500 for the earlier claims. 
When Mr B complained to HDI about what had happened, HDI apologised for making the 
process difficult for him but said it was correct to turn down the claims and ask for 
reimbursement.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr B brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at 
it upheld it in part. He didnt think HDI shouldve paid the claims in the first place because of 
the policy exclusion and he said HDI was entitled to be reimbursed. But he also said HDI 
shouldve taken more care in validating the claims. He said this failure had caused Mr B loss 
of expectation as well as considerable distress and worry about how he was to return the 
large settlement. Our investigator recommended HDI pay Mr B £500 in compensation for 
this.
Mr B accepted our investigators findings. HDI didnt. It didnt dispute that two of Mr Bs 
claims were accepted and settled in error, and agreed compensation was due for this. But 
HDI said a more reasonable offer was £200. It asked us to put this offer to Mr B, which we 
did. Mr B turned the offer down and so his complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint and award him £500 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience HDI has caused him.
Mr Bs policy has a term saying that, after it has been live for a minimum of 12 months, HDI 
will cover dental treatment as a result of illness for any new conditions his dog is diagnosed 
with. 
Mr Bs dogs dental treatment was carried out within the first 12 months of the policy. So I 
think all three of Mr Bs claims for this treatment were excluded from cover. 
Mr Bs policy also says if HDI makes an overpayment regarding a claim settlement, this will 
be requested back in full and/or deducted from any future claims. So I think HDI was entitled 
to ask for the overpayment to be paid back.
But I think HDI made a serious mistake in paying Mr Bs first two claims when the policy 
didnt cover them. HDI has accepted its error and agrees compensation is due. HDI says   
Mr B made it very clear that regardless of whether the condition was covered by his policy 
or not, he would still be proceeding with treatment.  HDI goes on to say:
So, although there has been distress and inconvenience caused by Mr B having to repay 
the settlements to us, he would still have had to pay out these amounts had the claims have 
been declined correctly in the first instance. 
On this basis, HDI says an award of £200 in compensation is more reasonable.
When Mr B first brought his complaint to us, he described how hed been affected:
Financially I have been affected due to having to pay for claims on my credit card for the 2nd 
and 3rd claims and now will have to pay [Mr Bs own vet (with whom HDI had settled the first 
claim directly)] for the first claim that [HDI] are asking them for the money back they have 
paid them. If I knew from the start that this was going to happen and not be covered, my vets 
..gave me another option that was cheaper .
I think it will have come as an unpleasant shock and been very disappointing for Mr B to find 
his claims for his vet fees  which were significant  werent covered at all by his policy when 
HDI had already paid out on two of them. Even more so, because it seems the mistake only 
came to light when Mr B raised an unrelated query with HDI at the time he made his third 
claim. Mr B then had the trouble of finding around £1,500 to repay his vet, as well as paying 
the fees hed paid for by credit card, which hed expected HDI to cover. Also, from what Mr B 
has told us, it seems he may have chosen a different option had he known his dogs 
treatment wouldnt be covered by his policy.
Having looked at everything Ive got, I think HDIs mistake caused Mr B considerable 
distress, upset and worry, along with significant inconvenience. I think this had a serious, if 
fairly short-term, impact on Mr B. So, in all the circumstances of this complaint, I think its fair 
and reasonable for HDI to pay Mr B £500 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct HDI Global Specialty SE to pay 
Mr B £500 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
HDI Global Specialty SE must pay this compensation within 28 days of the date we tell it    
Mr B accepts my final decision. If it doesnt, HDI Global Specialty SE must pay Mr B simple 
interest on the compensation at the rate of 8% a year from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman