DRN-1964869
 
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the service shes been provided with by Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited in relation to her personal pension plan. She says that Aviva has failed to respond 
fully and appropriately to issues shes raised in correspondence with it. 
She also complains about the investment performance of her fund and the charges shes 
had to pay; causing the fund to become depleted.
What happened
Mrs R has held an IPP Guernsey pre 95 personal pension with Aviva since 1992. As at 
September 2019, Mrs Rs pension had a transfer value of £36,473.11.
Mrs R says that over the years she has received very little information from Aviva about 
her investment and is unhappy with the high charges and the investment performance of 
her fund.
Aviva wrote to Mrs R in 2019, to say her fund would no longer be accepting new business. 
On 10 August 2019, Mrs R asked Aviva what the value of her pension was and whether 
she could take it in full, in cash.
Mrs R chased up a response from Aviva shortly afterwards. The information Aviva sent 
Mrs R on 17 August 2019, didnt answer her questions in full. 
In September 2019, in response to Mrs Rs complaint about the service shed received 
from Aviva, Aviva apologised and upheld Mrs R complaint. It said it would pay her £100 
compensation for not replying to her queries in enough detail. 
In September 2019, Aviva explained to Mrs R that she couldnt liquidate her funds at that 
time, because Guernsey law didnt allow funds over £15,000 to be taken as a triviality 
payment. It also explained that Mrs R couldnt transfer her pension to a Guernsey 
retirement annuity trust (RAT) policy because its wasnt recognised as a qualifying 
pension scheme in the UK.
Aviva did explain that Mrs R could take her benefits, in cash, when she reached the age of 
50 as per the terms and conditions of her policy. Mrs R was in her late 40s at the time.
Unhappy with Avivas response Mrs R wrote back to Aviva raising the following concerns:
that she couldnt liquidate her pension and receive the policy proceeds;
that she couldnt transfer the pension to an arrangement of her choice. She 
said that her fund would be further depleted because the plan was closed to 
new business; and
that she was unhappy with the overall performance of her plan and the high 
charges she had been charged, which had depleted her small pension fund.
At the same time, Mrs R complained to our service. Our investigator looked into Mrs Rs 
complaint and asked Aviva to respond to the further points Mrs R had raised. Aviva didnt 
change its position. It reiterated what it had said previously about not being able to pay out 
the policy in cash prior to age 50, because Mrs Rs fund exceeded the triviality limit. It said 
the charges had remained the same since the policys inception.
Our investigator issued her opinion on Mrs Rs complaint and did not uphold it. In summary, 
she found that Avivas offer of settlement was fair and enough to compensate Mrs R for its 
shortcomings, in not providing her with a lot of detail about her options. Our investigator 
noted that the information Mrs R had been provided with, by Aviva, was correct.
Mrs R didnt accept our investigators view. She said, in summary:
Aviva had been allowed to change the rules, break the fund and put a stop to further 
investments and continue to charge, but she was unable to liquidate her fund, which 
was unfair;
she had agreed to enter into an arrangement for a with profits fund, with protection; 
and
she had another pensions fund, where the charges were much lower in comparison.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mrs Rs complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding Mrs Rs complaint. My reasons are largely the same as our 
investigators, which I will summarise here.
I have looked at what Aviva told Mrs R about her options. I cant see that the information 
she was given was incorrect. Some of the restrictions imposed come about because of 
current regulations applying in Guernsey. Aviva doesnt make these regulations, and it 
must follow these. So, I cant fairly hold Aviva responsible for these options not being 
available to Mrs R. For example, she cant take her benefits as a triviality payment 
because her plan is worth more than £15,000. And she cant transfer her benefits into a 
RAT as its not recognised as a qualifying pension scheme in the UK. So, I dont think 
Aviva unfairly told her that, at that time, that she couldnt take her pension as cash, but 
that under the terms and conditions of the policy that could be done from age 50. 
On top of complying with statutory requirements, Aviva must act within the terms and 
conditions of Mrs Rs policy. I cant see that Aviva acted contrary to those terms and 
conditions. I understand that the charges levied were as set out at the inception of the 
plan. I understand Mrs R has queried these charges in the past and was given this 
information. I recognise that paying charges, can impact on the size of the fund. But as I 
cant see that Aviva has unfairly deducted these, I cant reasonably ask it to reduce or 
refund these charges. In terms of any transfer fee payable for transferring the fund out of 
the UK, this seems also to be covered within the terms and conditions. So, overall, I cant 
see that Aviva has provided incorrect information about the charges or acted unfairly.
I understand that the fund has not performed as Mrs R wouldve liked or expected it to. 
However, the projections provided were not guaranteed. As our investigator pointed out, 
the performance of a fund relies on market conditions, and unfortunately over the years 
the markets have been very volatile, which has led to a lot of policy holders investments 
falling significantly short of initial projections. So, I cant fairly require Aviva to make up 
any difference, given that there was no guarantee.Aviva has paid Mrs R £100 compensation for not initially responding fully to her enquiry. 
Given I cant see that Aviva has acted unfairly or inappropriately in relation to the other 
issues Mrs R has raised, I agree this is a fair and reasonable amount for what Aviva has 
done wrong here. I agree Aviva couldve provided Mrs R with a better and more timely 
service when responding to her information request about her pension and the options she 
had for taking benefits. But, I am satisfied that Aviva recognised this early on, and made a 
fair and reasonable offer to compensate Mrs R for this shortcoming. So, in those 
circumstances, I do not uphold Mrs Rs complaint and I make no further award. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman