DRN-3597307
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC closed his account and loaded a fraud marker against 
his name.
What happened
Mr A discovered, after having trouble opening a bank account, that Metro had loaded a fraud 
marker against his name on the Cifas database in July 2018. He was unhappy with this, so 
he complained to Metro.
Metro responded to Mr As complaint. It said that as it had acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account, it wouldnt be upholding his complaint. 
Mr A remained unhappy with Metro, so he referred his complaint to our service where it was 
considered by an Investigator. They concluded that Metro had closed the account fairly and 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account. But they didnt find the fraud marker 
loading to be fair or reasonable in the circumstances. 
The Investigator recommended that Metro remove the marker placed against Mr As name 
and pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Metro disagreed. It argued that it had adhered to the standards set out by Cifas when 
loading the marker. 
As Metro disagreed with the Investigators findings and recommendations, the matter has 
now been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Banks are entitled to end their business relationship with a customer, as long as this is done 
fairly, doesnt breach law or regulations and is in keeping with the terms and conditions of 
the account.
Metro closed Mr As account providing 7 days notice for him to find alternative banking 
facilities. Having read Metros terms and conditions for its personal account customers, this 
is in line with what it has set out and what Mr A agreed to when opening the account.
Metro had received information from a third-party business that gave it reason to believe the 
account was at risk. So, I think it was fair that it mitigated this risk by closing the account. I 
also think it was fair that it provided Mr A 7 days notice, despite its terms and conditions 
setting out that it could close the account immediately.
Fraud marker
One of the relevant considerations here is set out by Cifas: the fraud marker database 
controller. In its Handbookwhich members must adhere to when loading markersit sets 
out the standard of proof the member must meet. This included at the time: 
1. That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted. 
2. That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member [Metro] 
could confidently report the conduct of the subject [Mr A] to the police. 
When considering these standards, my interpretation of the bar for recording a Cifas marker 
is a high one. I must also take into consideration what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Having done so, I dont find that the marker was applied fairly here: Ill 
explain why.
Mr A is aware of the information recorded with Cifas against his name. The marker recorded 
against him sets out that he misused his facility by having a false instrument paid into it. 
However, in the circumstances of this complaint, the funds reported as being obtained 
fraudulently werent actually transferred to Mr As account. Nevertheless, Metro deemed this 
to be enough to record the marker as this was attempted.
While Im not permitted to disclose the intricacies of the information Metro obtained from the 
third-party, I have read these documents carefully and considered their content. And having 
done so, Im not persuaded Metro did have sufficient information to fulfil the standard of 
proof set out by Cifas.
The information provided lacks any detail regarding the alleged attempted fraud other than 
the amount that was attempted to be transferred to Mr As account. And considering the 
source of the information provided, I think Metro failed to consider if Mr A himself was the 
victim of an attempted identity theft or fraud. The information it has provided our service fails 
to rule this out as a possibility.
Considering that the alleged fraudulent funds never even entered Mr As account, this places 
further doubt over Mr As involvement. And as Metro has never approached Mr A to give him 
an opportunity to explain his knowledge or involvement in the attempted transfer, there is no 
testimony to consider here.
Metro argues that had it done this, it could have breached proceeds of crime legislation: but I 
dont agree. Asking a customer to explain or evidence their entitlement to funds doesnt 
require a business to disclose detailed information that they hold or are aware of.
While Metro doesnt have to prove beyond all reasonable doubt that Mr A was involved in 
any alleged attempted fraud, the Cifas standards requires that it has more than mere 
suspicion or concern. I dont find Metro has met that bar in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
For all the reasons Ive given, Im not persuaded that Metro has applied the fraud marker 
fairly here.
Putting things right
Metro should now go ahead and remove the Cifas loading against Mr As name without 
delay. It should also remove any other fraud markers it has placed against Mr As name that 
are visible to third-party businesses, if it has recorded them.
Ive also considered the impact caused to Mr A here. While it was 4 years before he approached the business and complained, its clear that the marker has since impacted him 
in obtaining financial products. Hes also explained that he suffers with mental health 
conditions that have been exacerbated by the marker.
For these reasons, I find that the £100 recommended by the Investigator is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Metro Bank PLC to:
1. Remove all fraud markers placed against Mr As name that are visible to third-party 
businesses and members relating to this incident.
2. Pay Mr A £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman