DRN-3459649
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice given by Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited 
(Niche) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ts employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr T approached Niche in July 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs as he was 
concerned about the security of his DB scheme. On 27 July 2017 Niche completed a fact-
find to gather information about Mr Ts circumstances and objectives. Niche also carried out 
an assessment of Mr Ts attitude to risk, which it deemed to be cautious balanced  a 
rating of 5 on a scale of 1-10.
On 17 August 2017 Niche advised Mr T to transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in a an investment fund, which Niche deemed matched 
Mr Ts attitude to risk. In summary the suitability report said the key reasons for this 
recommendation were: to provide flexibility in how and when Mr T accessed his retirement 
benefits; to provide control of his investment; to provide for more flexible death benefits for 
Mr Ts family; and to address Mr Ts concerns about the BSPS moving to the PPF.
Mr T accepted the advice and in October 2017 around £376,000 was transferred to his new 
personal pension.
By way of further background - around the same time as Mr Ts transfer completed, 
members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave them the options to 
either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS 
benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 December 2017 (and was 
later extended to 22 December 2017).
In 2021 Mr T complained to Niche, via the Financial Ombudsman Service, about the 
suitability of the transfer advice. 
In summary Mr T said he was concerned that the returns needed from his pension werent 
realistically achievable, which had prompted him to question the original advice.
Niche didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. In summary it said the recommendation was not based 
on the pension achieving the required critical yield, but it was given on the basis of achieving 
Mr Ts stated objectives. It believes it followed its strict advice process, took into 
consideration all of Mr Ts financial situation and that the recommendation was suitable. It 
said it doesnt believe Mr T has been financially disadvantaged.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr T asked this service to consider his complaint. And an 
investigator upheld it and said Niche should pay Mr T compensation. In summary they said 
they didnt think the advice to transfer was in Mr Ts best interests. They said the growth rate 
required to match Mr Ts BSPS benefits was unlikely to be achievable and wasnt compatible 
with his cautious balanced attitude to risk. They said the cash flow forecast produced by 
Niche was confusing because it referred to Mr Ts retirement age of 55, 57 and also 
reference was made to age 65. Because Mr Ts retirement was some way off, they didnt 
think the assumptions made about his expenditure in retirement were accurate as theyd 
likely be subject to change. They went on to say that Mr T already had flexibility in retirement 
because his workplace Defined Contribution (DC) scheme would provide this; death 
benefits shouldnt have prioritised over Mr Ts income in retirement; and Niche shouldve 
allayed Mr Ts concerns about the PPF. They concluded Niche should pay compensation in 
line with the regulators pension review guidance and that it is the BSPS2 which should be 
used for comparison purposes.
While Niche said it disagreed with the investigators conclusions and said it would be 
providing a response, it hasnt provided anything further. Weve recently reminded Niche that 
if it has anything it wants us to consider it should let us know. But again nothing has been 
received. Im satisfied Niche has been given the opportunity to respond and I think that if it 
wanted to do so it wouldve done so by now.
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was referred to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Niches actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19, which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. My reasons are set out below. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Niche should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ts 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not persuaded that it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability
Niche carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ts pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). And this was based on his existing scheme 
benefits. But at the time of Niches written advice of 17 August 2017, scheme members had 
been told that, if the Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) was approved (under 
pensions law, a RAA is a restructuring mechanism which allows a financially troubled 
employer to detach itself from its liabilities in respect of a DB pension scheme) they would 
have a choice - either move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or remain in the existing scheme 
and move with it to the PPF.
This means that at the time of the advice basing the analysis on the existing scheme was 
somewhat redundant - the existing scheme was no longer an option so analysis of that 
scheme wasnt helpful to Mr T. I think its reasonable to say that, in light of the 
announcement, Niche shouldve waited for the details of the new scheme and used the 
BSPS2 figures instead so Mr T had all the relevant information to make an informed 
decision.
I can see that within its business file submission, Niche has included an analysis report, 
which uses the BSPS2 details to produce the required critical yields. But the report has a 
print date of December 2017, which is after it gave Mr T advice and after his transfer had 
completed. Its also the case that the suitability report only refers to the critical yields based 
on the existing scheme details. So Im not persuaded this was used in the advice and 
discussions with Mr T. But it does mean I can refer here to the more accurate growth rates 
when comparing Mr Ts DB scheme benefits.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr T was 40 at the time of the advice. In my view the advice paperwork as a whole paints a 
somewhat confusing picture as to Mr Ts intended retirement date. I say this because in the 
various documents Mr Ts retirement age is referenced as being 55, 57 and 65. But I 
understand Mr Ts preferred retirement age was 57. 
Niche produced a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report, which shows that the growth rate 
required to match Mr Ts benefits under the existing BSPS at age 65 if he transferred to a 
personal pension was 5.63%, assuming he took a full pension. No figure was produced for 
the option of a reduced pension and a tax-free cash lump sum. The critical yield required to 
match the benefits provided through the PPF was 4.03% if Mr T took a full pension and 
3.72% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension.But as Ive said above, at the time of the formal written advice Mr T remaining in his existing 
DB scheme wasnt an option. So, Niche shouldve waited until details of the BSPS2 were 
provided and produced the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits instead. 
Notwithstanding this, its not clear to me why Niche only provided analysis at age 65 when 
Mr T had indicated his preferred retirement age was 57. So in any event this wasnt an 
accurate comparison to make and wasnt helpful for Mr T in making an informed decision.
Looking at the analysis report dated December 2017 - while again no comparison was made 
of Mr Ts benefits at age 57, this one does show the analysis at age 55, which is closer to 
Mr Ts indicated preferred retirement age. The growth rate required to match Mr Ts benefits 
under the BSPS2 at age 55 was 8.64% assuming he took a full pension and 7.33% if he took 
a reduced pension and a tax-free cash lump sum. The critical yield required to match the 
benefits provided through the PPF was 6.07% if Mr T took a full pension and 5.78% if he 
took tax-free cash and a reduced pension.
This compares with the discount rate of 4.2% per year for 14 years to retirement in this case 
(the rate assuming a retirement age of 57 was 4.3% for 16 years to retirement.) For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5% and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ts 
recorded cautious balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there 
would be little point in Mr T giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme 
only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
But here, the critical yield if Mr T took a full pension at age 55 was 8.64% as produced in the 
December report. And while no figure was produced comparing Mr Ts benefits at age 57, I 
think its reasonable to assume that it wouldve been close to this figure. And this figure was 
higher than the discount rate and higher than the regulators upper projection rate. Given 
this, I think it was clear Mr T was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall 
value than those provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a person pension, as a result of 
investing in line with a cautious balanced attitude to risk. Because of the required sustained 
growth rate, I think it is clear the transfer was not compatible with Mr Ts attitude to risk. To 
have come close to achieving the level of growth needed, in my view it would have required 
Mr T to take a higher level of risk than his recorded appetite. And even then I think its likely 
Mr T would have been no better off financially at retirement if he transferred out.
I also think that, given the critical yields required to match the benefits provided through the 
PPF, the situation was no different.
So given Mr T was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension, for this reason alone I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in 
his best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice. I accept there might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable and in Mr Ts best interests, despite providing overall lower benefits. And it seems 
Niche believed this to be the case, because in the suitability letter the adviser said they 
wouldnt recommend the transfer based on the critical yield alone - albeit the reference to the 
critical yield was the one to age 65 and based on the existing BSPS scheme. 
Ive considered below whether such other reasons applied here.
Flexibility / control and income needsOne of the key reasons Niche recommended the transfer was because it said it would 
provide  Mr T with flexibility  it would allow him to decide when and how to drawdown his 
pension.
But I dont think Mr T knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in retirement  in 
my view the reference to flexibility was simply a feature or consequence of moving to a 
personal pension arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr Ts. And in any event, I 
dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits to achieve flexibility if thats what 
he ultimately required.
Mr T was only 40 years old. And while I dont think it would be unreasonable for him to have 
started to think about his future retirement, theres nothing to show or suggest that he had 
anything that could reasonably be described as concrete plans for retirement. And this isnt 
surprising  he still had a significant period of his working life in front of him. Because of this, 
I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. 
So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr T to give up his guaranteed 
benefits now when he didnt reasonably know what his needs in retirement would be.
Importantly here, Mr T also had his workplace DC pension scheme, which both he and his 
employer were contributing to at a combined rate of 16%. At Mr Ts current income and with 
the potential of at least 17 years contributions ahead, this had the potential to be worth in 
excess of £80,000 not accounting for any growth. Given the nature of a DC scheme, this 
already provided Mr T with flexibility  he wasnt committed to take these benefits in a set 
way. He couldve taken lump sums as and when required and adjusted the income he took 
from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr T retained his DB pension, this combined with 
his new workplace pension, wouldve given him the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he 
ultimately decided  and met his income needs.
So in any event, Mr T didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to a 
personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. Of course, if Mr T 
did in fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which he already had, I think this 
couldve been explored closer to his intended retirement age, which as Ive said was still 
many years away. While this wouldnt have been possible if Mr Ts scheme moved to the 
PPF, if he opted to join the BSPS2 he wouldve retained the ability to transfer out nearer to 
retirement, if indeed it was required. This ought to have been explained by Niche.
Turning to Mr Ts income need  while Im not persuaded Mr T could reasonably know with 
any degree of certainty what his income need in retirement would be, it was recorded that he 
would need just over £2,000 a month. Looking at Mr Ts circumstances, Ive seen nothing to 
indicate that he needed variable income. 
And nothing to indicate that either opting into the BSPS2 or moving with the scheme to the 
PPF wouldnt have provided Mr T with most, if not all of his income need  at the very least it 
wouldve provided a solid income foundation upon which his other provision could 
supplement, to meet his overall need.
For example, at age 55 (so two years before Mr T indicated he wanted to retire) under the 
BSPS2, Niches analysis of December 2017 shows that Mr T would receive an annual 
pension of just under £20,000 if he took a full pension. There was nothing to indicate Mr T 
had a known need for a cash lump sum  for example given the outstanding mortgage 
balance on his home at the time of the advice and the monthly repayment, this suggests it 
would likely be repaid around the time Mr T wanted to retire - so I think Mr T couldve met his 
income need through his DB scheme. Mr T had rental income in excess of £800 a month, 
which it was indicated would likely continue into retirement and he also had in excess of 
£60,000 in savings, which he could likely add to further while he continued working. So I think this combined with the DB scheme income broadly met his needs. If there was a 
shortfall, then I think this couldve been met by accessing income and/or by taking tax-free 
cash from his DC scheme. Mr T wouldve likely had a not insignificant pension to draw on 
flexibly, as and when he needed, to top up his income or take additional lump sums. This of 
course ignores Mr Ts state pension, which would come later on in retirement, and any 
pension provision his partner had. So I think its also the case that Mr T didnt have to 
sacrifice flexibility in retirement by remaining in his DB scheme and opting into the BSPS2.
I accept at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established and the 
announcement about scheme members likely upcoming choice had only just taken place. 
So it wasnt certain it would go ahead. And if Mr T had opted into the BSPS2 and it hadnt 
gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. At age 55  again two years 
below the age Mr T indicated he would like to retire  he wouldve been entitled to an annual 
pension of just under £15,000. This was lower than the pension hed be entitled to under the 
BSPS2, but I dont think it was substantially lower such that it shouldve made a difference to 
the recommendation. As Ive said above, Mr T wouldve likely had his rental income, his 
savings, his DC scheme to draw on until his state pension became payable, as well his 
partners pension to supplement their household income. So, I still think Mr T couldve met 
his needs in retirement even if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and hed had to move with the 
scheme to the PPF.
Overall, I think Mr T couldve likely met his income needs in retirement through the BSPS2 or 
the PPF based on a retirement age of 57. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ts best interests for 
him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility, that Im not persuaded he really needed. 
Death benefits
The suitability report said that the death benefits available to a personal pension were 
appealing to Mr T because he wasnt married and he and his partner had no intention of 
marrying.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr T. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr T might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr T about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement not as a legacy provision 
tool. So I dont think the potential for greater or different death benefits should have been 
prioritised over this and Mr Ts security in retirement. And I say potential, because the sum 
left on Mr Ts death was dependent on investment returns  so if he lived a long life, and/or 
investment performance was lower than expected, there may not have been a large sum to 
pass on anyway.
In any event, Niche ought reasonably to have known that Mr T had generous 
death-in-service cover through his employer if he died before retirement. So he already had 
lump sum death benefits available, which I see no reason why he couldnt nominate his 
partner to receive if he hadnt already done so. And it also knew that Mr T was paying into 
his DC scheme and he wouldve been able to nominate his partner as beneficiary of this plan 
too  again if he hadnt already done so. I can see that in its business file submission, Niche has included some whole of life 
assurance quotes with a sum assured for the full transfer value amount. But I cant see any 
reference to this in the suitability report, so I cant fairly say that this was properly considered 
or discussed with Mr T as an alternative. Mr T has said that he already had life cover as well 
as joint cover for their home  presumably cover for the outstanding mortgage. And as I said 
above, Mr T also had death-in-service benefit through his employer. So its possible he 
already had sufficient life cover in place to provide for his family. 
But if Mr T genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his partner over and above that which was 
already available, and which didnt depend on investment returns, I think Niche ought to 
have explored in greater detail, and ultimately recommended, additional life cover. 
The starting point shouldnt have been for the full transfer value, but ought to have been 
considered in terms of how much Mr T wanted to leave his family, after taking into account 
the above existing means. And this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term 
assurance basis, which was likely to be cheaper to provide, particularly as Mr T was 
relatively young and in good health. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr T. And I dont think Niche 
did enough to explore or highlight the alternatives available to Mr T to meet this objective.
Concerns about financial stability of BSPS
I have no doubt that Mr T was concerned about his pension. His employer had recently 
made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he was worried for his pension 
given the general uncertainty. There was also lots of negative sentiment about the PPF. 
So its quite possible that Mr T was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of these 
concerns and what might happen. But it was Niches obligation to give Mr T an objective 
picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive already explained, I think Niche ought to have waited until the details of the proposed 
BSPS2 were known so the advice could properly take the benefits available to Mr T through 
the BSPS2 into account. Had it done so I think this wouldve alleviated Mr Ts concerns 
about the scheme moving to the PPF.
In any event, even if the BSPS2 didnt go ahead, I think that Niche shouldve reassured Mr T 
that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought or was led to 
believe. As I set out above, the income available to Mr T through the PPF wouldve still 
provided a solid base, which his other means could supplement to likely meet his overall 
income need at retirement. 
He was also unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And although the 
increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not 
subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that Mr Ts concerns shouldve led to Niche 
recommending he transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I accept that Mr T was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer and the scheme were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control 
and potential for higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension 
wouldve sounded like attractive features to Mr T. But Niche wasnt there to just transact 
what  Mr T might have thought he wanted or which sounded attractive. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr T needed and recommend what was in his best interests.Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr T was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income - whether through the proposed BSPS2 or the 
PPF - and by transferring, I think Mr T was likely to obtain lower overall retirement benefits. 
And I dont think there were any other particular or compelling reasons which would justify 
the transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ts best interests for him to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension at this time; particularly given the information 
that Mr T would shortly be given the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2. So, I think Niche 
shouldve advised Mr T to remain in the BSPS.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr T would've gone ahead anyway, against Niches 
advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr T wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against Niches advice. I say this because, while Mr T was 
motivated to transfer when he approached Niche, on balance, I still think Mr T wouldve 
listened to and followed Niches advice if things had happened as they should have and it 
recommended he stay in the scheme. Mr T was in my view an inexperienced investor who 
neither possessed the requisite skill, knowledge nor confidence to go against the advice they 
were given in pension matters. Furthermore Mr Ts pension accounted for the majority of his 
retirement provision at the time. So, if Niche had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ts concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Niche 
had explained that Mr T could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed 
pension to do so, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr T would 
have insisted on transferring out of his scheme against Niches advice.
If Mr T had stayed in BSPS, he would have shortly after had the choice to move to the PPF
or transfer to the new BSPS2 scheme. 
While Mr T indicated he wanted to retire early at 57, as I said above, I dont think his plans 
could reasonably be considered concrete given his circumstances. So, I don't think that it 
would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very 
early retirement. Im also mindful the annual indexation of his pension when in payment was 
also more advantageous under the BSPS2 and by opting into this scheme, Mr T wouldve 
retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme (if his needs demanded it) nearer to 
retirement.
So overall, I think Niche should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the above, it 
is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for comparison 
purposes.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £350 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr T. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
Niche  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr T. Taking everything into account, including that I consider 
Mr T is now at the age when his retirement provision is of greater importance, I think the 
unsuitable advice has caused him distress. So I think an award of £350 is fair in all the 
circumstances.Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr T whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
Mr T has chosen not to wait for the new rules / guidance to come into effect to settle his 
complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr T. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Niches unsuitable advice. I consider Mr T would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given and then 
opted into the BSPS2. So Niche should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison 
purposes.
Niche must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr T has no plans to retire - so compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
Niche may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ts 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date Niche receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Niche to pay Mr T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Niche to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited should also pay Mr T £350 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused in this matter.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr T any interest on that amount in full, 
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Niche 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr T any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr T the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr T.
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers LimitedMy recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman