DRN-2941495
The complaint
This complaint is about an equity release mortgage that was sold to Mrs L by an appointed 
representative of Personal Touch Financial Services Ltd.
Mrs L sadly died in August 2020 and the complaint has been brought by her estate. Mrs Ls 
daughter  who Ill refer to in this decision as Ms M  is Executor of the estate and is 
representing it in this matter. To that end, any reference to Ms M in this decision should be 
taken to mean her acting in her capacity as Executor of the estate.
Ms Ms said that her sister - who Ill refer to as Ms C - was vulnerable due to her health 
concerns (which I wont detail here to protect her privacy), and so lived in the property with 
their mother. Ms M also feels her mother was vulnerable at the time. 
What happened
Mrs L applied for this equity release mortgage in October 2008. A fact find was completed on 
9 October, and illustration was produced on 20 October and Mrs L signed the paperwork to 
apply for the mortgage on 24 October. The adviser then sent Mrs L a letter setting out the 
details of his recommendation on 4 November, which Mrs L signed on 19 December.
The fact find recorded that Mrs L had an existing mortgage of around £14,000, a second 
charge loan secured on her property of around £31,000 and that she owed around £44,500 
in unsecured debts that were in a payment plan. It also showed that her total monthly 
outgoings were about £150 more than her net monthly income. The payments to the 
mortgage, secured loan and unsecured debts totalled about £650 a month.
It was recorded on the application form that was submitted to the lender that Ms C lived in 
the property, that she had the mental capacity to sign an Occupants Deed and was willing to 
do so. It was also recorded that Mrs L wanted to borrow just under £45,000 to repay the 
debts that were secured on the property, £41,000 to reduce the unsecured debts and £2,000 
for the fees to apply for the mortgage. That took Mrs L to the maximum loan allowed based 
on her declared value of the property.
When the property was valued the surveyor said it was worth slightly more than Mrs L 
thought, so the loan amount increased from £88,000 to £99,000 which was enough to fully 
repay all the debts, with a bit left over. The mortgage completed in January 2009.
I understand Ms M has held Power of Attorney over Mrs Ls affairs since around 2013, and 
she then complained to Personal Touch after Mrs L died in 2020. Ms M also complained to 
the lender, and about the solicitor involved in the transaction. 
The complaint about the lender had also been passed to me to decide, and I dealt with that 
as a separate matter to this decision about the broker, Personal Touch. Ms M has provided 
us with a copy of a letter from the Legal Ombudsman about the solicitor in which it says it 
cant take things forward as too long has passed since so there would no longer be a file 
about the matter, and the solicitor is no longer trading so there was no reasonable prospect 
of any award being paid even if the complaint was investigated and upheld.
Our investigator said he didnt think the equity release mortgage was mis-sold. He also said 
the checks about the understanding of the contract (and that Ms C would need to leave the 
property when Mrs L died) were down to the solicitor, and that the mortgage took Mrs L from 
a situation where her outgoings were higher than her income, to one where she had some 
money available to spend each month.
Ms M didnt agree and so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Ms M wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the way that I 
have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant.
As our investigator has explained, the only issue Im able to consider here is that relating to 
Mrs L as she was Personal Touchs customer. I have no power to consider things from 
Ms Cs point of view.
When these products were first offered to the market from the late 1980s onwards, it was 
envisaged that there was the potential for family members to be unhappy once they learned 
that their relatives had taken out an equity release mortgage, or for borrowers to regret the 
erosion of the equity in their properties.
Precisely because of this, even before mortgage regulation came into effect on 31 October 
2004, the sales process for these products has always been very robust, with borrowers 
required to take advice from a solicitor, as well as a financial advisor.
In this decision Ive looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what was regarded as 
good industry practice at the relevant time) and considered generally whether Personal 
Touch did anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In doing that, I can give no 
regard to the regulatory standards in place now, or to any hindsight that the intervening 
years might have brought.
Its impossible for us now to establish everything that was discussed between Mrs L and the 
adviser at the time. Im aware that over 10 years have passed since the lifetime mortgage 
was sold. Due to the passage of time, it can be difficult in such complaints to be certain of 
exactly what was discussed and agreed at the time.
In such instances we typically look at the records from the time to try to get the best 
impression possible of what was discussed. However, thats not the end of the matter. We 
also look at the wider transactions and the specific circumstances of the consumer(s) at the 
time of the sales to try to establish if a product was mis-sold.
Id like to reassure Ms M that Ive carefully reviewed the documents available from the time 
of the sale to try to build up a picture of what happened. And Ive used all this evidence to 
determine whether Personal Touch mis-sold the equity release mortgage to Mrs L and if it 
was clearly unsuitable for her needs at the time.
This type of mortgage provides that no repayments are made, and interest rolls up over the 
years. As a result, the amount the debt has increased to can sometimes come as a shock to family members. But that doesnt mean the consumers that took out the mortgage  so here 
that was Mrs L  didnt understand the consequences of the interest roll up and werent 
happy to agree to it. This was Mrs Ls house and her equity. If she wanted to use the equity 
in her home to repay her debts and leave herself some money to spend each month, then it 
would be highly inappropriate for me to say that she shouldnt have been allowed to do so.
I also note that Mrs L had independent advice from her own solicitor before she took out the 
lifetime mortgage. If the solicitor had thought Mrs L wasnt able to understand the nature of 
the transaction she was entering into, the solicitor had a duty to inform the lender, under the 
Safe Home Income Plans rules in place at the time. 
The letter from the Legal Ombudsman to Ms M is based on documentation provided by 
Ms M and that says:
I note on 26 November 2008 [the appointed solicitors] wrote to your late mother 
acknowledging the identity documents sent to them. I have also seen a further letter that 
day advising that the mortgage offer had been received and asking your late mother to 
call the office for a telephone consultation before returning any signed documents to 
them.
I have also seen a copy of the invoice from [a firm of solicitors local to Mrs L, who 
incidentally appear to be the same firm that arranged Mrs Ls probate for Ms M] dated 2 
January 2009. I have spoken with [the local solicitors] who have confirmed they were 
asked by [the appointed solicitors] to undertake a home visit to witness your sisters 
signature on the form and explain the form to her. [The local solicitors] were not involved 
with providing legal advice about the equity release product to your mother. 
If either firm of solicitors had any doubts about Mrs L and/or Ms Cs capacity to understand 
what they were signing, then they were obligated to report that to the lender. The solicitor 
would have been best placed to make the judgement call as to whether Mrs L had the 
capacity to enter into this contract, and as they had no concerns then I cant say Personal 
Touch did anything wrong in also thinking the same.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2008. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous so they should reflect what was said and agreed 
at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information might 
be recorded incorrectly. But its typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections 
at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or 
contradictory. They are even more important in cases like this where the mortgage holder 
has died. Unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well 
generally attach some weight to it.
It was recorded that Mrs L wanted to pay off her existing mortgage, secured loan and 
unsecured debts  all of which she had to make monthly payments on. At the time of the 
sale it was recorded that Mrs Ls outgoings were higher than her net income every month, 
and thats without taking into account any emergency expenditure that might have come up. 
That clearly wasnt a sustainable situation, as month-on-month things would only have got 
worse. Mrs L wanted to get rid of those outgoings. That seems like a perfectly valid reason 
for someone to take out a lifetime mortgage. Theres nothing to indicate that Mrs L lacked 
the capacity to make that decision herself at the time so it would be completely wrong of me 
to now say, over ten years later, that she shouldnt have been allowed to.
The sale of this lifetime mortgage was drawn out over three months which gave Mrs L plenty 
of time to reconsider whether this was the right thing for her, to speak to Ms M (or Ms Ms 
brother) if she wanted to do so, or to have sought further advice.Having considered the paperwork and what it is recorded that Mrs L wanted the money for, I 
dont think the fact she took the maximum amount available was inappropriate. It was 
recorded that the adviser had discussed alternative options with Mrs L such as downsizing, 
taking in a lodger, asking family members for help or arranging an alternative type of 
borrowing and those options werent suitable.
It was not for Personal Touch to question whether Mrs L had truly spoken to her other 
children. There was a question on the fact find Are your beneficiaries aware of the likely 
reduction in their inheritance if you refinance your property? which was answered Yes. 
She was also asked whether she wanted Personal Touch to send a copy of the 
recommendation letter to those beneficiaries, or any other independent representative or 
solicitor, both of which were answered No. Mrs L signed a form which said not sending the 
recommendation letter to either the beneficiaries or an independent representative/solicitor 
went against the advisers recommendation.
Its not uncommon for parents to want to keep their finances private from their children. Im 
sure Ms M can see how many complaints would be made if a broker refused to deal with an 
adult who is capable of making their own decisions, unless their child was notified; Im sure 
most people would see how inappropriate and intrusive that would be. If Mrs L decided not 
to discuss her plans with all her children, that was entirely her decision to make, it was her 
house and her equity after all.
The illustration from the time set out the nature of the product and how the interest would roll 
up over the years:
A lifetime mortgage is a special type of loan which is usually designed to run for the 
rest of your life, and which means that you borrow money that is secured on your 
home to give you a lump sum and/or a regular income. The amount you owe to the 
lender is usually paid back from the proceeds of the sale of your home after your 
death.
This lifetime mortgage will provide you with a cash lump sum. You will not make any 
monthly repayments during the life of this lifetime mortgage. The total amount you 
owe including the interest and charges must be repaid when you have left your home 
because you have died or need long-term care.
If you leave your home because you need long-term care you must repay this 
lifetime mortgage.
[Lender] has the right to take action to repossess your home for the following 
reasons: 
- if the lifetime mortgage has not been repaid within 12 months of you leaving your 
home because you have died or need long-term care.
Check that this mortgage will meet your needs if you want your family or others to 
inherit your home. If you are in doubt, seek independent legal and financial advice.
Section 8 is entitled What you will owe and when and said This shows how the amount 
paid to you and the interest and any fees that we charge mount up over 15 years. It has 
been calculated using the current interest rate of 6.80%. Interest is added to the amount you 
owe annually. Remember that the mortgage could run for a longer or shorter time than 15 
years, and if it runs for longer, the amount you owe will carry on increasing.There was then a table to show the amount that was likely to be owed at the end of each 
year. This showed  based on the original lower lending amount of £88,000  that after:
Five years Mrs L would owe £122,275.36
Ten years Mrs L would owe £169,900.71
Fifteen years Mrs L would owe £236,375.80.
The reason for recommendation letter that Mrs L signed to accept, stated:
You are prepared to accept the risk of faster erosion or eroding all of the equity 
within your property for the benefit of maximising the amount of capital available for 
your immediate needs.
The Lifetime Mortgage that I am recommending will be repaid from your estate in the 
event of your death, or must be repaid earlier if you leave your property to move into 
residential care or sheltered accommodation, or on abandonment of the property. 
There is no interest payable on this mortgage whilst you continue to live at the 
property. The lender will require a repayment of the mortgage amount plus the 
interest that has accrued over the term of the mortgage either when you move or on 
your death. The key facts illustration gives you a guide of what you will owe and 
when, with a projection of roll up of interest.
Your daughter, [Ms C], still lives with you, and you have confirmed that she is 
prepared to sign a standard document confirming she will vacate your property on 
your death, or moving into Long Term Care.
The value of your residual estate will be substantially reduced and in some cases 
there may not be a residual estate to transfer to your beneficiaries as an inheritance.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Personal Touch made it clear that the interest 
would roll-up on this mortgage and what the potential amounts would be that would be owed 
at the end of each year. It also made it clear the debt would need to be repaid when Mrs L 
died, or if she went into long term care. So it should have been clear to Mrs L that Ms C 
wouldnt be able to continue to live in the property after her death (or if she went into long 
term care) unless she was able to find a way to repay the total debt by other means.
Ms M has asked various questions about the guidelines for vulnerable customers, and the 
steps Personal Touch did  and should have  taken. But theres nothing in the information 
we have available that would have raised any concerns that Mrs L was vulnerable. The fact 
Mrs L had debts and was taking out the mortgage to repay them wasnt a sign of 
vulnerability, otherwise most equity release customers would have to be classed as such. 
Nor was her age, as equity release mortgages were only available to customers over a 
certain age, so again that would encompass most equity release customers. Ms M didnt 
hold Power of Attorney over her mothers affairs for another 4 or 5 years, so it seems Ms M 
trusted her mother could look after her own affairs at the time of the sale.
It was marked on the application form that Ms C had the capacity to sign an occupiers form 
and that she was willing to do so. And from the information we have from the Legal 
Ombudsman it seems a local solicitor has confirmed that it visited Ms C to explain the form 
and witness her signature on it. 
Personal Touch had no responsibility to look after Ms Cs interests here as she wasnt its 
customer. It had the right to take the information it was given by Mrs L at face value, and that is shown on the fact find and in the recommendation letter  both of which Mrs L signed  to 
be that whilst Ms C lived in the property, she wasnt financially dependent and she had 
capacity, and was willing, to sign the occupiers form to say she would vacate the property 
on Mrs Ls death (or if she went into long term care).
There was simply nothing in this application that would have raised any concerns with 
Personal Touch such that I would have expected it to ask further questions or refused to 
arrange the equity release mortgage that Mrs L wanted.
It may be Mrs L was vulnerable but theres nothing to indicate Personal Touch should have 
been aware of that. It gave the advice in good faith, and Im assuming Mrs L used the funds 
to repay her debts, thus relieving herself of the strain of trying to meet monthly debt 
payments out of her pension income and finding herself each month with her outgoings 
being higher than her income.
Mrs L had a clear aim and this equity release mortgage achieved that. Theres nothing to 
show she was vulnerable at the time, or unable to understand the contract she was entering 
into. The advice given doesnt seem inappropriate and the paperwork set-out the nature of 
the contract she was entering into.
In the circumstances, the options available to Mrs L were very limited. She was clear that 
she didnt want to sell her property, ask her family for help or take in a lodger. Having very 
carefully considered this matter I dont consider Personal Touch did anything wrong when it 
gave the advice to Mrs L about this equity release mortgage as Im not persuaded the 
product was unsuitable for her.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs L 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman