DRN-4149760
Complaint
Mr P has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr P with a loan for £2,000.00 in August 2017. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just under £160. One of our adjudicators reviewed 
what Mr P and 118 118 Money had told us. And he thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ps complaint be 
upheld. 
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ps complaint.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr P could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Ps application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr P could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr P has said he 
shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr P and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Ps first loan with 118 118 Money. And         
118 118 Money has provided an output of the income and expenditure information recorded 
at the time of Mr Ps application as well as a record of the results of its credit searches.    
118 118 Moneys searches appear to show that Mr P had had previous difficulties with credit 
as hed defaulted on accounts. 
But these were historic and Mr P debts at the time of this application were low. And Mr Ps 
commitments at the time were relatively well maintained. I know that Mr P says that hed 
made minimum payments to his credit card and had taken out a payday loan. This may have 
been the case. But I think its fair to say that his active commitments werent excessive at 
this stage. 
Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Ps debt total at the time of the application 
was reasonable in comparison to his income and there wasnt anything to indicate that the 
income and expenditure information gathered was incorrect either. 
I accept that Mr P appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances werent fully 
reflected either in the information he provided, or the information 118 118 Money obtained. 
However, 118 118 Money could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it 
had available at the time. 
And as this was a first loan 118 118 Money was arranging for Mr P and there wasnt a 
history of Mr P obtaining funds and returning for more, Im satisfied that 118 118 Money was 
reasonably entitled to believe that Mr P would be left in a better position as a result of taking 
this loan.
I accept that if 118 118 Money had gone into the depth of checks Mr P appears to be saying 
it should have  such as obtaining bank statements its possible it may have reached a 
different decision. But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. 
Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended further  especially given what 
was obtained showed Mr P wasnt in an unstable financial position at the time at least. 
As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr P - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr P unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr P. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman