DRN-3630647
The complaint
Mr B complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF), unfairly turned down his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought a timeshare membership from a timeshare supplier in November 2009. 
The total cost of membership was £6,199, which was paid for by way of a loan from BPF. 
The loan was in Mr Bs name only and was repaid in full in July 2010.1 
In October 2020, Mr and Mrs B (using a professional representative (PR)) made a claim 
against BPF for problems they said they had with the timeshare. They said the nature of the 
timeshare had been misrepresented to them, so they were able to make a claim against BPF 
under s.75 CCA. Alternatively, they say the representations became terms of the contract, 
so there was an actionable breach of contract. PR said that there was an unfair debtor-
creditor relationship under s.140A CCA, so Mr B was entitled to relief under s.140B CCA to 
remedy any unfairness. Finally, PR alleged that BPF paid the timeshare supplier a 
commission at the time of sale and asked for information about that, although PR didnt 
make any claims arising from the payment of commission.
BPF responded to the claim, but said it was made too late under the provisions of the 
Limitation Act 1980 (LA). BPF also treated the claim as a complaint and said that Mr B 
could come to our service if he wasnt happy with its position. PR did that on Mr Bs behalf in 
July 2021.
One of our investigators considered the s.75 and s.140A CCA claims and concluded that 
they had been brought too late under the LA. So she didnt think BPF needed to do anything 
further to answer the claims.
PR disagreed with the investigators view, responding to what was said and expanding what 
had been said previously. In summary, the following points were made:
More detail of the potential claims under the CCA were set out, in particular details of 
the pressured sale and further misrepresentations were given.
The timeshare supplier was not authorised by the Financial Services Authority 
(FSA), the predecessor to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), at the time of 
sale to broker loans, so the loan was void.
An undisclosed commission was paid, which gave rise to an unfair relationship under 
s.140A CCA.
The timeshare supplier had a duty to provide impartial or disinterested advice when it 
advised Mr B to take out the BPF loan. As it didnt do that, the commission amounted 
to a bribe, so the BPF loan agreement can be rescinded.
The bribery amounted to a fraud and/or was deliberately concealed from Mr B, so 
1 As the BPF loan was taken in only Mr Bs name, only he is able to bring this complaint. However, as 
the timeshare was bought by both Mr and Mrs B, I will refer to both of them at points in this decision.
Mr B can rely on s.32 LA to extend the limitation period.
Mr B relies on DISP 2.8.2R in that he complained to BPF within three years of 
knowing he had cause to complain. And as he still doesnt know how much 
commission was paid by BPF, the three years from the date of knowledge has not 
yet started to run.
The representations made by the timeshare provider were fraudulent, so Mr B had 
three years from when he found that out to make a claim.
Our investigator responded to say that she still thought the claims had been made too late. 
But she arranged for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for reconsideration as Mr 
B had asked. BPF confirmed it had nothing further to add.
I considered the available evidence and arguments, and came to the same overall 
conclusion as our investigator. But as I did so for different reasons, I issued a provisional 
decision, setting out my initial findings. I invited both parties to respond before I issued a final 
decision.
I explained that under the rules that govern how I decide complaints, I must take account of 
law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and 
good industry practice.
I also said that I would focus on what I thought was material and relevant to reach a fair and 
reasonable outcome. So although I had read everything that had been supplied to me, I may 
not have addressed every point that had been raised. But, of course, if either party felt Id 
missed something crucial, they had the chance to let me know before I issued a final 
decision.
Having set out how I considered complaints, I went on to look at each of the claims being 
made.
The misrepresentation claim under s.75 CCA
Mr and Mrs B said that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership 
to them when they bought it and that they had a claim for misrepresentation against the 
supplier under the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (MA). Under s.75 CCA, BPF could be jointly 
liable for the alleged misrepresentations made by the timeshare supplier. But BPF argued 
that any claim brought by Mr B for any alleged misrepresentations was made too late. 
Having considered everything, I agreed with BPF. For the avoidance of doubt, I explained 
that I hadnt decided whether the limitation period had expired as that would be a matter for 
the courts should a legal claim be litigated. Rather, I considered whether BPF acted fairly in 
turning down the claim.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) MA. It was 
held in Green v Eadie & Ors [2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under s.2(1) 
MA is an action founded on tort for the purposes of the LA; therefore, the limitation period 
expires six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued (s.2 LA).
Here Mr B brought a like claim against BPF under s.75 CCA. The limitation period for the 
corresponding like claim would be the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. As 
noted at para. 5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice (Issue 68 (April 2022)) 
the creditor may adopt any defence which would be open to the supplier, including that of 
limitation:
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim 
against the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the 
creditor may shelter behind that exclusion or limitation.
Therefore, I thought the limitation period for the s.75 CCA claim expired six years from the 
date on which the cause of action accrued.
The date on which the cause of action accrued was the point at which Mr and Mrs B entered 
into the agreement to buy the timeshare. It was at that time that they entered into an 
agreement based, they said, on the misrepresentations of the timeshare supplier and 
suffered a loss. They said, had the misrepresentations not been made, they would not have 
bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that Mr B suffered a loss, as he took out the 
loan with BPF that he was bound to and would have never taken out but for the 
misrepresentations. It followed, therefore, that the cause of action accrued in November 
2009, so Mr B had six years from then to bring a claim. But he didnt make a claim against 
BPF until October 2020, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So I thought 
BPF acted fairly in turning down the misrepresentation claim.
The breach of contract claim under s.75 CCA
Our investigator said that she didnt think PR had set out any specific allegations in relation 
to  which terms of the contract it said were breached. And in response to the view, PR didnt 
say anything further on this point. 
Having considered everything again, I couldnt say with any certainty which representations 
were alleged to have been incorporated into the contract, how those representations were 
said to be expressed as terms and why or when Mr B said they had been breached. BPF 
said that any claims made about things that went wrong at the time of sale would have been 
out of time under the LA. As with a claim for misrepresentation, a consumer has six years to 
bring a claim for a breach of contract from the date of breach (s.5 LA). It appeared to me that 
anything Mr B said went wrong would have happened at the time of sale. So even if I did 
think Mr B was making a clear breach of contract claim, which I didnt, I thought BPF would 
likely have a defence to it in any event.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B CCA in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising 
out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but 
this is relevant law and I said that I had taken it into account.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 
3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the 
date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was 
made. As with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation period is six years. That is because 
the claim Mr B made is for repayment of sums he paid to the loan, which is an action for 
sums recoverable under statute to which s.9 LA applies. That meant Mr B would have to 
bring an action within six years of July 2010 at the latest. As he didnt do that, I thought he 
brought the claim too late.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. Having 
considered the facts of this complaint, I didnt think the time limits I set out above could be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA. I considered several reasons specifically 
raised in more detail.PR said that, under the DISP rules, a consumer can make a complaint to a business within 
six years of the event happening or three years of when a consumer realised they had a 
reason to complain. But the rules PR referred to set out the time limits within which a 
consumer needs to complain to a business about a regulated financial activity. Those rules 
apply to FCA governed complaint handling, which in the current context, was a complaint 
that BPF unfairly turned down their claim under the CCA. But the reason it decided to turn 
down the claim was because it didnt think it was legally liable due to the operation of the 
LA, so thats why I considered that legislation. So I thought DISP 2.8.2R didnt extend the 
time to bring a claim, otherwise brought too late due to the LA, in the way PR suggested.
I was asked to consider s.32 LA, which states that in cases where an action is based on 
the fraud of the defendant or a fact relevant to the right of action has been deliberately 
concealed from the claimant by the defendant, the limitation period only starts to run from 
when a claimant discovers the fraud or concealment (or could have discovered it using 
reasonable diligence). It had been suggested that the payment of commission and the 
fact that the alleged misrepresentations were fraudulent could engage this provision.
I considered what PR said about the amount of commission that might have been paid by 
BPF to the timeshare provider for arranging the loan. PR argued that BPF should have told 
him about that. From what I had seen across the industry, I thought that if commission was 
ever paid it tended to be low and of less than 10%. I was satisfied BPF didnt breach any 
duty in making such a payment, nor was it under any regulatory duty to disclose the 
amount of commission paid in these circumstances. Further, I didnt think the levels of 
commission that were normally paid in this situation were sufficiently high to mean that BPF 
should have appreciated not disclosing commission to Mr B risked the relationship being 
unfair under section 140A CCA.
For those reasons, I wasnt persuaded that Mr B was able to rely on s.32 LA here. For the 
avoidance of any doubt, I also made it clear that Id seen nothing to show that the 
timeshare supplier was acting as agent to Mr B. I couldnt see that its role was to make an 
impartial or disinterested recommendation about taking out the loan. And I didnt think the 
timeshare provider needed to disclose the fact that it might have received a commission to 
Mr B. So I couldnt say BPF acted improperly in paying a commission to the timeshare 
supplier, if any such commission was paid.
As I said, I thought any commission paid here was unlikely to be more than 10%. So, even 
if I was satisfied that Mr B could rely on s.32 LA to assist with this part of his complaint, I 
wasnt persuaded it was likely a court would conclude that any commission paid created an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship. 
I also considered whether s.32 LA assisted Mr B if the alleged misrepresentations were 
fraudulent. For there to be a cause of action for a fraudulent misrepresentation, and 
therefore one which BPF could be jointly liable for under s.75 CCA, there would need to be 
a number of things needed to be found. There would need to be a false representation by 
the fraudster, that representation would need to have been made knowing it was false (or 
being reckless as whether it was false), the fraudster would need to intend the claimant 
acts in reliance of the representation and as a result of that, they suffered a loss. Here I 
couldnt see any evidence that any of those four elements were satisfied. In particular, I 
didnt think Mr and Mrs B had set out in any level of detail the false statements of fact that 
were allegedly made to them by the supplier.
Overall, I thought BPF fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim was 
brought too late. It is ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr B 
may have against the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, as far as I could see 
from the information available, any claim that Mr B might have against the supplier and/or BPF had most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA . I thought it was reasonable 
to take that into account in these circumstances. And I wasnt persuaded that BPF acted 
unfairly in declining the claims.
Was the timeshare supplier authorised to broker the loan?
In response to the investigators view, PR alleged that the timeshare supplier wasnt 
authorised by the FSA to broker loans. I thought this was a wholly new and separate 
allegation that was never put to BPF when the complaint was first made. Given that, I 
couldnt see there was any unanswered complaint on this issue for me to consider. I noted 
that should PR wish to make such an allegation, it needed to do so to BPF in the first 
instance and then refer a complaint to our service if it wasnt satisfied with BPFs response. 
So I made no finding on that allegation.
Responses
BPF didnt respond to my provisional decision.
PR responded on Mr Bs behalf. It provided more recollections from Mr B about the sales 
process  these were provided in his own words. He explained that he and Mrs B were 
persuaded to take out the extra points so they could enjoy last minute breaks for fewer 
points, so they could pass them on to their children and so they had more points for holidays 
if their children wished to use the membership. Mr B said they were happy with the 
membership until 2012, when the timeshare supplier told them it was moving to a different 
type of membership model. They were told that they would lose the benefits of the points 
around ten years later, so they agreed to change their type of membership and took out a 
secured loan to pay for it (not with BPF).
PR argued that statements at the time of sale that the points would be available permanently 
would be a misrepresentation. It explained that Mr and Mrs B tried to pursue the timeshare 
supplier using Spanish lawyers in 2015, but they were unsuccessful when the timeshare 
supplier fell into administration. PR said that Mr B was unaware he had any potential CCA 
claims against BPF until it provided advice.
PR pointed to the case of Wood v Commercial First Business Ltd & ors and Business 
Mortgage Finance 4 plc v Pengelly [2021] EWCA Civ 471 which it said was the leading 
judgment dealing with the payment of commissions linked with credit agreements. PR 
argued that the timeshare supplier had a duty to be impartial and to give disinterested 
advice, information or recommendations. It alleged that the timeshare supplier said it could 
obtain finance for Mr B at the most competitive rate and at a rate more favourable than Mr B 
could obtain himself. Because of that, a duty arose as Mr B relied on the timeshare 
suppliers expertise in sourcing credit. It also said the timeshare supplier owed fiduciary 
duties to Mr B.
PR says that, had Mr B known commission was being paid, he would have realised that the 
timeshare supplier had a conflict of interest and that it was likely the credit agreement was 
not the most competitive available to him. PR also pointed to a judgment in which 
commission at a rate of 0.5% was found to cause an unfair relationship and said that any 
commission paid by BPF here amounted to a bribe. The upshot of all of this was that Mr B 
could rely on s.32 LA to extend the time to bring CCA claims as he didnt know he had any 
claims until PR told him about commission.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Again, Ill explain that when coming to my decision, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice.
In its response to my provisional decision, PR didnt comment further on the allegation that 
the loan wasnt properly arranged by an authorised broker. So for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, I make no finding on that point. 
Additionally, PR didnt explain further why it thought there could be a breach of contract 
claim BPF could be liable for under s.75 CCA. So again, for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, I dont think that BPF acted unfairly in turning down any such claim.
Further, PR hasnt argued that the limitation periods I set out, in respect of the 
misrepresentation claim under s.75 CCA or the claim that there was an unfair debtor-creditor 
supplier under s.140A CCA, were wrong. So I think the only issue I need to consider is 
whether there were good reasons to say those periods could be postponed and, therefore, 
whether BPF needed to consider the substance of those claims.
The first point to note is that limitation is not postponed just because Mr B may not have 
realised he had potential claims under the CCA until he took legal advice. Limitation periods 
can only be postponed for the reasons set out in the LA and, for the claims Mr B has made, 
not being aware he could make a claim isnt a reason to extend time under the LA.
In my provisional decision, I considered s.32 LA at some length. Many of the arguments 
raised by PR in response were already dealt with in my provisional findings, however I have 
considered this provision again. But I still dont think the limitation period could be 
postponed.  
In summary, s.32 LA says that if the action was based on BPFs fraud or a fact relevant to 
the right of action was deliberately concealed from Mr B, the limitation period could be 
postponed. 
If the timeshare supplier owed a duty to Mr B to give disinterested advice, information or 
recommendations, it is arguable that the payment of commission could give rise to an 
unfairness. And it could be argued that failing to disclose the payment of commission in 
those circumstances could engage s.32 LA. So its important to consider whether there was 
any such duty on the timeshare supplier. 
I said in my provisional decision that Id seen nothing to show that the timeshare supplier 
was acting as agent to Mr B and I couldnt see that its role was to make an impartial or 
disinterested recommendation about taking out the loan. So I didnt think the timeshare 
supplier needed to disclose that it might have received a commission. In response to this, 
PR says Mr B now remembers the timeshare supplier saying things about the loan.
PR says that the timeshare supplier told Mr B that it could obtain finance for him at the most 
competitive rate and at a rate more favourable than he could obtain himself. But I dont think 
that is reflected in the evidence available. That was not something said by Mr B before I 
issued my provisional decision and, importantly, was not something he mentioned in his own 
words when responding to my provisional decision. Given that Mr B did set out in his own 
words some of his memories of the time of sale, including the reasons why he and Mrs B 
bought more points, I would have expected him to have set out his recollections of things 
said to him by the timeshare supplier about the loan, had anything actually been said. None 
of this is reflected in the sales documentation and as the timeshare supplier didnt offer customers a number of different ways financing their purchases, I would find it surprising had 
a comment been made of the competitiveness of the BPF loan against others available in 
the market. So Im not persuaded that the timeshare supplier did say that it was obtaining 
finance at a competitive rate or that it was the best rate Mr B could obtain. It follows, I dont 
think there was any duty for it to disclose that it might have received a commission. Further, 
Ive not seen any evidence the timeshare supplier was acting for anyone but BPF in 
arranging the loan, so I cant see it owed any fiduciary duties to Mr B as alleged or that any 
commission paid amounted to a bribe.
PR argues that commissions as low as 0.5% could create an unfairness and referred to the 
judgment in Nelmas v. NRAM Plc [2016] EWCA Civ 491. I have read that judgment and note 
that it dealt with a situation in which the broker to whom commission was paid was acting as 
the agent of the borrower, so the payment of commission breached a duty and, in that 
instance, gave rise to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. Ive already explained why I 
dont think the timeshare supplier oved Mr B such a duty in this case.
In my provisional decision, I noted that the levels of commission were not sufficiently high to 
mean that BPF should have appreciated not disclosing commission to Mr B risked the 
relationship being unfair under section 140A CCA. PR says that, if Mr B knew the timeshare 
supplier could have received a commission from BPF, it might have made him question 
whether the loan was in his best interests. I note that if any commission was paid, Mr B 
didnt borrow more upfront to pay for it, so its not clear why he might question commission if 
it were paid. But the question when determining whether s.32 LA applies is whether any 
concealment was deliberate on the part of the defendant, not what a claimant might have 
done had information been supplied at the time of contracting. Here, as I dont think that any 
commission that was paid was likely to have put BPF on notice that not disclosing it could 
have led to an unfair relationship, I dont think s.32 LA is engaged.
It follows, I dont think the limitation period could have been postponed and I think BPF acted 
fairly in turning down Mr Bs claims.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman