DRN-4462699
The complaint
Mr O complains about the final settlement offered by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
following a claim he made on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents. Mr O has been assisted by a representative on this 
case. But for ease of reading, Ill be referring to Mr O alone in this decision.
What happened
Mr O holds a motor insurance policy with Admiral. When his vehicle was hit while parked, he 
made a claim on this policy. Admiral accepted the claim and deemed Mr Os car 
uneconomical to repair, so it wrote it off and offered Mr O an amount which it felt 
represented the market value of the car immediately before the accident.
Mr O complains about that offer. Hes said Admiral originally valued the wrong car  it valued 
a petrol model, whereas his was a hybrid. Hes said he purchased the car one and a half 
months prior to the accident and thinks its still worth the £19,999 he paid for it. Hes said 
adverts for similar models supports this position. And he provided an engineers report 
stating the same.
He's also said Admirals low offer has meant hes not been able to purchase a suitable 
replacement, which has caused him both a loss, and distress and inconvenience because he 
wasnt able to sell his other car and has been paying off two loans for longer than he 
intended to.
Admiral agreed it had valued the wrong model, so it asked its engineer to value the vehicle 
as the hybrid model. They did, but still didnt value the Mr Os car at the amount he 
purchased it for. They valued it at £17,000.
Our Investigator ultimately thought a fair settlement would be £18,499.50. He thought this 
was fair, based on it being the mid-point between Mr Os engineers report and Admirals. He 
recommended Admiral increase the settlement offer to this amount and pay 8% interest on 
the difference between this and any payment it had already made from the date it made its 
first offer.
Our Investigator also recommended Admiral reimburse Mr O the £300 hes paid for the 
engineers report to evidence the value of his vehicle. And he thought it should pay Mr O 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Admiral accepted our Investigators assessment. Mr O didnt and asked for an 
Ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. In it I recommended that Admiral:
Settle Mr Os claim on this basis his cars market value at the time of the incident was 
£19,999. Admiral should therefore pay Mr O the difference between this amount, and 
any amount it has already paid him. Admiral is entitled to deduct any policy 
excesses. 8 % interest should be paid on any amount it pays. Interest should be 
calculated from the date it offered Mr O its first valuation, to the point Admiral pays 
this settlement.
Pay Mr O £300 for the engineers report he obtained. 8% interest should be added to 
this payment too. Interest should be calculated from the date Mr O paid the invoice, 
to the date Admiral pays him.
Pay Mr O £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused throughout 
this claim.
My reasoning for this outcome was:
If Mr Os car is damaged, his policy says Admiral will either pay to repair the 
damage or pay him a cash sum to replace the vehicle. So, whether the vehicle is 
repaired or written off is a decision for Admiral to make. But its a decision it needs to 
come to fairly. The most Admiral will pay on any claim is the market value.
Mr Os policy with Admiral defines the market value as The cost of replacing your 
vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on 
market price immediately before the loss happened. Use of the term market refers 
to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on research from industry 
recognised motor trade guides.
Sometimes insurers will write a vehicle off because the damage is so bad it cant be 
repaired, or it cant be repaired safely. But sometimes insurers write vehicles of for 
economic reasons. In this case. Admiral thought Mr Os car was uneconomical to 
repair based on the amount it thought it would cost to repair the car versus the 
amount it deemed the car to be worth. Initially this seemed a fair decision, because 
the repair costs amounted to roughly 60% of what Admiral deemed the car to be 
worth.
Admirals first offer valued Mr Os car at £12,000 but it had valued Mr Os car as 
being a petrol model, when his was a hybrid, which commanded a higher value.
Mr Os engineer valued Mr Os car at £19,999, and Admirals revised report valued it 
at £17,000. Both these valuations mean the decision to write the vehicle off and not 
repair it was unfair because the repair costs when compared to the revised, higher 
value of Mr Os car. Mr O wanted his vehicle repaired, and due to an error from 
Admiral, this didnt happen. So, Mr O should be compensated for this.
Turning to what a fair value is, Im satisfied that a fair value for Mr Os car is the 
£19,999 he paid for it. I say this because Ive considered the time elapsed between 
him purchasing it and the incident, the various reports provided, and adverts for 
similar cars. After doing so, Im more persuaded by Mr Os engineers report than I 
am Admirals. It aligns more with the adverts provided, and similar adverts available 
now (although I do acknowledge Admiral only need pay what the car was worth at 
the time of the loss). These things combined indicate Mr O didnt overpay for his car 
 so considering the small amount of time passed between purchasing it, and the 
incident, the purchase price is persuasive evidence too.
Admiral should reimburse Mr O £300 for the cost of obtaining his own report. This 
isnt something wed expect a consumer to normally have to do. And because Mr O 
has done so here, and its shown Admirals fist offer was unfair, Im satisfied its a 
financial loss caused by Admirals actions.But Im not recommending Admiral pay Mr Os representatives fees. I understand 
Mr O will be disappointed with this. But Im not persuaded these fees were something 
he needed to incur. Mr O was able to bring the complaint to us unrepresented, as are 
the vast majority of people who bring complaints to us. The process of appealing our 
Investigators outcome was clearly set out, so Im not persuaded appointing a 
representative was something Mr O needed to do. It is of course something hes 
entitled to do, but that was his choice, and not something I require Admiral to 
reimburse him for.
Not being offered a fair market value in the first instance has caused Mr O 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Hes not had his car repaired when it 
reasonably should have been  and hes told us he took a long time trying to source 
that car in the first place on account of it being an import. Hes also said hes been 
paying for a loan longer than he intended to. Our investigator thought Admiral should 
compensate Mr O £100. But I think a fairer figure would be £500 when taking into 
consideration the above, especially fact the car should have been repaired. 
Admiral should pay 8% simple interest on the difference between its first offer and 
the new settlement of £19,999. This should cover the interest Mr O has had to on his 
loan, but if it doesnt, hell need to explain why and provide further evidence to 
support his claim.
Mr O provided information on the loans he took out, explaining that both had interest rates of 
over 8%.
Admiral asked for clarification on the compensation I was recommending, it said it had 
already paid £200 on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my outcome remains the same as that set out in my provisional decision for 
the same reasons. However, I will clarify the compensation offered, and explain why Im not 
increasing the interest Admiral needs to pay.
I can see the interest on both Mr Os loans is higher than the 8% interest Ive recommended 
Admiral pay on the increased settlement and the cost of the engineers report.
But although the interest is higher, I need to consider what Mr O took out the loans for. Both 
these loans were taken out prior to the accident, and the latter loan with the higher interest 
rate was taken out to purchase the car involved in the accident as well as carrying out 
repairs to Mr Os other vehicle.
As I understand it, Mr Os said his intention was to repair his other car, then sell it, and use 
the proceeds to pay off some of the loan. Hes said not being given a fair value for the car 
involved in the incident meant he wasnt able to do this  because he needed to use his 
other car and therefore couldnt sell it.
And while I dont doubt this, had he been given a fair value from Admiral initially, I dont know 
what his other car would have sold for, or when it would have sold, so cant say with any 
certainty what proportion of the loan Mr O would have paid off. And therefore, I cant say 
what additional interest hes had to pay on these loans. And for that reason, Im not departing for the 8% we usually award in circumstances where someone has been without 
money they should have fairly had.
To clarify the compensation, Im recommending a total of £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this claim. So if Admiral has paid £200 of this already, it would be 
entitled to deduct that.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to:
Settle Mr Os claim on this basis his cars market value at the time of the incident was 
£19,999. Admiral should therefore pay Mr O the difference between this amount, and 
any amount it has already paid him. Admiral is entitled to deduct any policy 
excesses. 8 % interest should be paid on any amount it pays. Interest should be 
calculated from the date it offered Mr O its first valuation, to the point Admiral pays 
this settlement.
Pay Mr O £300 for the engineers report he obtained. 8% interest should be added to 
this payment too. Interest should be calculated from the date Mr O paid the invoice, 
to the date Admiral pays him.
Pay Mr O a total of £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
throughout this claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman