DRN-1798767
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the way in which Kensington Mortgage Company Limited 
(trading as Acenden) has administered his secured loan account. He is unhappy that there is 
a projected shortfall of £21,000 on the loan which Acenden expects him to pay. To settle the 
complaint Mr J wants the loan to finish at the end of its term, when Mr J says he will have 
paid back £96,000.
What happened
In August 2006 Mr J took out an unregulated secured loan. He borrowed a total of £42,560 
at an interest rate of 13.0% (variable) on a capital repayment basis over a term of 15 years 
(meaning the loan is due to end in August 2021).
The loan fell into arrears from September 2007 onwards. The arrears were finally cleared ten 
years later in September 2017. In line with the account terms and conditions, arrears fees 
have been applied, and interest has been added to both the arrears and the charges 
applied.
The loan is now owned by a business which is unregulated, and the administration of the 
loan (a regulated activity) is dealt with by Acenden (which is regulated) on behalf of that 
business.
In August 2019 Mr J complained to Acenden about the projected shortfall of about £21,000 
on his account at the end of the term. Acenden said that this was due to the arrears, as well 
as charges and interest added over the course of the loan. 
Acenden explained that it had written to Mr J in July 2011 to let him know that the monthly 
instalment was insufficient to repay the capital, interest and fees over the remaining ten-year 
term of the loan. This meant that there would be a shortfall of £7,628.40 at the end of the 
term in August 2021. 
I note that Mr J had told Acenden in 2011 that he couldnt afford to increase his monthly 
repayments and that he would address the shortfall at the end of the term. 
Acenden acknowledged that its records didnt indicate until 2014 that Mr J had been told that 
interest would be charged on the total outstanding balance, including the shortfall amount 
and any fees and charges. 
In its final response letter dated 4 October 2019, Acenden clarified that the shortfall balance 
as at that date was £4,273.80. At the end of the term it would be £7,628.40, which Mr J had 
told Acenden in 2011 that he would address at the end of the term.
Acenden agreed to remove interest of £5,643.30 from the account, calculated on the 
shortfall balance of £4,273.80 (the balance at 4 October 2019), for the period July 2011 to 4 
October 2019, and also calculated this at the highest rate of interest Acenden applied to its 
accounts  16.06% (which is higher than the contract rate on Mr Js account of 13%).
Acenden also looked at fees and charges. It was explained to Mr J that Acenden would only 
look at fees and charges applied in the six years before the complaint was first raised o 1 
August 2013. As a goodwill gesture, Acenden removed fees totalling £350 from Mr Js 
account.
Dissatisfied with Acendens response, Mr J brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator noted that Acenden hadnt consented to us looking at 
fees and charges that had been applied more than six years before the complaint had first 
been raised with Acenden. The investigator was satisfied that we couldnt look at fees and 
charges applied before August 2013, and that there were no exceptional circumstances to 
explain the delay.
The investigator reviewed the fees and charges and was satisfied that the £350 refund 
offered by Acenden was fair. She also thought the removal of £5,643.30 of interest from the 
account was reasonable, in acknowledgement of Acenden agreeing that it had no record of 
telling Mr J that interest would be charged on the shortfall amount, as well as on fees and 
charges.
Mr J didnt agree with this outcome. He was still unhappy that at the end of the loan term he 
would have a shortfall debt. Mr J says that by the time the loan ends, he will have paid back 
£96,000 in total, which he considers sufficient. Mr J asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fees and charges: I agree with the investigator that we cant look at fees and charges 
applied to Mr Js account before August 2013, which is six years before he first raised his 
complaint with Acenden. There are no exceptional circumstances to explain why Mr J didnt 
complain about fees and charges earlier.
The account terms and conditions and tariff of charges allow Acenden to apply fees to the 
account for arrears administration, and that interest is applied to these fees and charges. 
From August 2013 until September 2017 the account was in arrears. Ive reviewed the 
charges that have been applied and Im satisfied they have been applied fairly, and in line 
with the terms of the contract.
Acenden has agreed to refund £350 of the fees it applied after August 2013, and Im 
satisfied that this is fair and reasonable. Im not ordering Acenden to refund any additional 
fees.
Shortfall debt: Im satisfied that Mr J was made aware in July 2011 that there was a 
shortfall debt on his account. At the time he decided against increasing his direct debit. If 
Mr J had done so, this would have ensured that this would be paid off by the end of the term 
at that point ten years away.
Acenden has accepted that there is nothing in its records to show that Mr J was told in 2011 
that interest would continue to accrue on the shortfall debt. He wasnt told this until 2014. 
Acenden looked at what it could do to address this and decided to remove some of the 
interest at the highest contract rate. 
Ive looked at the refund of interest Acenden has offered. This covers the interest charged on 
the shortfall balance from July 2011 to 4 October 2019 (which at that date was £4,273.80). Im satisfied the total refund of £5,643.30 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I 
appreciate Mr J had good reason for not increasing his direct debit in 2011, but the fact 
remains that he has known for ten years that there will be a shortfall debt to pay at the end of 
the term. Im satisfied Mr J has also known since 2014 that this will accrue interest.
Given this, I think Acendens offer is fair and reasonable, and Im not going to ask it to do 
anything further.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr J was hoping for. I understand his concerns about 
repayment of the shortfall debt. I would remind Acenden of its obligation to treat Mr J 
positively and sympathetically and to consider any proposals he makes for repayment of the 
debt.
I must also mention to Mr J that its important to maintain an open dialogue with Acenden 
about repayment of the shortfall debt. It might help Mr J to speak to an independent financial 
adviser to see what other options (for example, an equity release mortgage) might be 
available to him. Alternatively, Mr J could contact one of the free debt advisory services, 
such as Citizens Advice, StepChange or Shelter. We can provide Mr J with contact details 
for those organisations if hed like us to do so.
My final decision
I know Mr J will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
simply leave it to Mr J to decide if he wants to accept the refund of fees and interest 
proposed by Kensington Mortgage Company Limited (trading as Acenden) in full and final 
settlement of his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman