DRN-3663804
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VWFS) following the return of his car.
What happened
On 10 December 2014, Mr P was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS. The agreement was for £39,793 over 48 months, with 48 monthly 
payments of £397 and a final optional payment of £14,440, if Mr P wanted to purchase the 
car. 
In August 2018 Mr P exercised his option to voluntary terminate the agreement. The car was 
collected on 10 October 2018. Mr P was unhappy that VWFS then charged him an excess 
mileage fee, and charged him £404 for damage to the car.
Mr P says that VWFS werent able to charge him for these issues as this contravened the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) as hed paid the requisite amount. He also said he felt that 
the damages charged for were scuffs and scratches that he believed to be fair wear and 
tear. He said VWFS sold the car for higher than the end of lease cost, and they hadnt 
acknowledged that they sold the car for more than the final balloon payment.  
VWFS said that the agreement allowed for the excess miles to be accrued prior to 
termination, and therefore the charge was consistent with the CCA.
They said the agreement Mr P entered into required him to keep the car in good repair and 
condition. They said the agreement included a clause that confirmed Mr P would be liable for 
any damage to the vehicle that wasnt fair wear and tear. They said the car had been 
inspected and they listed the damages as:
Bumper Front - dent exceeds the BVLRA guide tolerance as dents on the swage line
are not acceptable: £138.00
Bumper Rear - scratch exceeds the BVLRA guide tolerance as scratches greater 
than 25mm are not acceptable: £55.20
Left Hand Front Wheel - scratches exceeds the BVLRA guide tolerance as scratches
greater than 50mm are not acceptable: £36.00
Left Hand Rear Wheel - scratches exceeds the BVLRA guide tolerance as scratches
greater than 50mm are not acceptable: £36.00
Right Hand Front Wheel - scratches exceeds the BVLRA guide tolerance as 
scratches greater than 50mm are not acceptable: £36.00
Right Hand Rear Wheel - scratches exceeds the BVLRA guide tolerance as 
scratches greater than 50mm are not acceptable: £36.00
They said they were satisfied that all damages exceeded what would be considered fair 
wear and tear as set out in the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) Fair 
Wear and Tear Guide. They also said that the guide allowed for charges to be applied where 
they decide for commercial reasons not to any repair damage before they sell it. They didnt 
uphold his complaint and said he owed £1,339 for the excess mileage and £404 for the 
damages.
Mr P was unhappy with VWFSs response, and he brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
In May 2022, this service wrote to Mr P to inform him that VWFS had agreed to waive the 
excess mileage charge. The letter explained that the offer was in line what the Financial 
Ombudsman Service expected in these types of situations.
Mr P said he was unhappy to pay any charges as he said they was no legal requirement to 
do so. He also said VWFS had sold the car for the full value of the final balance set out in 
the agreement, and this was the amount they wouldve received if hed exercised the option 
to purchase the car. 
He said he considered the matter closed because the event occurred more than four years 
ago.
Our investigator said the offer from VWFS to remove the excess mileage charge was fair. 
She also said it was fair for VWFS to charge Mr P for the damages. She said section 100 of 
the CCA said that If the debtor has contravened an obligation to take reasonable care of 
the goods or land, the amount arrived at under subsection (1) shall be increased by the sum
required to recompense the creditor for that contravention . She said this meant that 
VWFS could charge for damages.
She also said that the damages were outside of the BVRLA guidelines so she felt it was 
reasonable for VWFS to charge for them. She also said that the same guidance allowed 
VWFS to charge even where the car is not repaired before it was sold. 
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator. He said VWFS did not incur any losses or additional 
costs after he voluntary terminated the agreement. So hes asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr P was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
Mr P said he has met his obligations under the CCA as he says hes paid more than half. He 
also said VWFS shouldnt be able to charge for the excess mileage and the damages as the 
CCA doesnt allow for this.I note that VWFS have agreed to waive the fee for the excess miles. Im satisfied this is a fair 
and reasonable offer, and that this resolves that part of Mr Ps complaint.
I do need to consider whether or not it was reasonable for VWFS to charge Mr P for the 
damage to the car.
Section 99 of the CCA provides the right to terminate the hire purchase agreement. Section 
100 of the CCA sets out the consumers liability on termination:
100 Liability of debtor on termination of hire-purchase etc. agreement.
(1) Where a regulated hire-purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement is 
terminated under section 99 the debtor shall be liable, unless the agreement 
provides for a smaller payment, or does not provide for any payment, to pay to 
the creditor the amount (if any) by which one-half of the total price exceeds the 
aggregate of the sums paid and the sums due in respect of the total price 
immediately before the termination
(3) If in any action the court is satisfied that a sum less than the amount specified 
in subsection (1) would be equal to the loss sustained by the creditor in consequence 
of the termination of the agreement by the debtor, the court may make an order for 
the payment of that sum in lieu of the amount specified in subsection (1).
(4) If the debtor has contravened an obligation to take reasonable care of the goods 
or land, the amount arrived at under subsection (1) shall be increased by the sum 
required to recompense the creditor for that contravention
Mr P says hes paid the requisite sum. I assume he means the one-half of the total price 
referred to in section 100 (1) of the CCA. But that ignores section 100 (4) which allows the 
creditor, in this case, VWFS, to charge where the debtor, Mr P, hasnt taken reasonable care 
of the car. So Im satisfied that VWFS are able to charge for the damages following 
Voluntary Termination.
The agreement Mr P entered into also includes a clause that explains that there will be a 
charge if the car is not in a reasonable condition. The section of the agreement headed 
termination: Your rights explains that on voluntary termination the liability will be limited to 
half the total amount payable, and that if you have already paid that amount and have taken 
reasonable care of the goods, you will not have to pay anymore.
So I then have to consider whether the charges for damages are reasonable. Mr P says they 
are not because he believes the damages are commensurate with the mileage he travelled.
There are industry standard guidelines published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) which set out what is considered to be fair wear and tear when a car is 
returned at the end of a hire purchase agreement. So, Ive considered these in deciding what 
its fair for VWFS to charge Mr P on return of the car. 
Dented front bumper 
The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that dents on the swage line are not 
acceptable. Ive seen the photos provided by VWFS from the collection of the vehicle, and 
the dents on the front bumper are visible on the swage line. So, Im satisfied that the charge 
of £138 has been fairly applied for this item.Scratched rear bumper
The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that surface scratches of more than 25mmm 
are not acceptable. Ive seen the photos provided by VWFS from the collection of the 
vehicle. The scratches on the rear bumper are shown alongside a ruler, and appear to be at 
least 50mm in length. So, Im satisfied that the charge of £55.20 has been fairly applied for 
this item.
 
Alloy wheels
The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference 
of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable. 
Ive seen the photos provided by VWFS from the collection of the vehicle. The scuffs on all 
four wheels are clearly visible and appear against a ruler. Im satisfied that the scuffs on 
each of the four wheels cover more than 50mm of the circumference. And so, Im satisfied 
that the charge of £36 for each wheel has been fairly applied for this item.  
Mr P feels its unfair for VWFS to charge for the damages when they obtained a higher value 
than the final balloon payment when they sold the car. He also pointed out that they didnt 
repair the damages so he said they havent lost out.
The BVRLA guidance Ive referred to above, confirms that the charges can be applied even 
if the repairs were not done before the car was sold. So Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
VWFS to charge as this was in line with agreed industry standards. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr P, especially due to the passage of 
time since he returned the car, but I think that VWFS acted reasonably by charging for the 
damages to the car and I wont be asking them to amend their invoice.
Putting things right
VWFS should waive the excessive mileage charge as set out in their offer made to this 
service. They are entitled to pursue Mr P for the damage charges of £404.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman