DRN-4341998
The complaint
Mr R complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough to protect him from the financial harm 
caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr R saw a post about an investment opportunity on a friends social media account, so he 
contacted them to make enquiries. The friend recommended a broker who worked for a 
company Ill refer to as S who would help him to invest in cryptocurrency.
Mr R contacted the broker who showed him how to create a profile on S and told him that 
he was guaranteed a return of £20,000 from a £2,000 investment. He told him to first 
purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company Ill refer to as M and 
then load the cryptocurrency onto an online wallet.
On 28 January 2023 he made a payment of £2,000 to M using a debit card connected to his 
Monzo account. He was reassured that he could check his account on the trading platform, 
but when he was told to pay a fee to make a withdrawal, he realised hed been the victim of 
a scam.
Mr R contacted Monzo on 29 January 2023 to ask it to stop the payment, because it was still 
pending. He also ordered a replacement bank card. But he didnt receive a satisfactory 
response and so he complained to it on 18 February 2023.
Mr R said Monzo should have intervened due to the value of the payment, particularly as it 
knew he had ADHD. He said he wanted Monzo to refund the money hed lost and to pay 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the poor service hed received, 
including the fact it had completely disregarded the fact he had ADHD in the handling of the 
claim, the delay in replacing his bank card and the constant chasing which had exacerbated 
the symptoms of his ADHD.
Monzo explained that it wouldnt have been able to cancel the payment because even if a 
payment shows as pending, it has already been authorised and is waiting to be collected by 
the receiving bank. It said it couldnt refund any of the money hed lost to the scam because 
it had no link to the recipient, and it couldnt raise a chargeback request against M because it 
hadnt done anything wrong. But it did accept there had been delays in the handling of the 
claim, ordering the replacement card, responding to messages on the in-app chat and in 
responding to the complaint, offering £175 compensation for these failings.
My provisional findings
I thought about whether Monzo could have done more to recover Mr Rs payments when he 
reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. Monzo) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr R).
Mr Rs own testimony supported that he used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfer. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. I noted it was most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have 
been able to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Rs 
payment, they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address 
provided. So, any chargeback was destined fail, therefore I was satisfied that Monzos 
decision not to raise a chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange 
companies was fair.
I was satisfied Mr R authorised the payment for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, Mr R is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
The scam
There was no dispute that this was a scam, but although Mr R didnt intend his money to go 
to scammers, he did authorise the disputed payment. Monzo is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer 
has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to 
reimburse them even though they authorised the payment.
I thought about whether Monzo could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Id seen, M 
was a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, Monzo had an obligation to be 
alert to fraud and scams and this payment was part of a wider scam, so I needed to consider 
whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr R when he tried to make the payment. If 
there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect Monzo to intervene with 
a view to protecting Mr R from financial harm due to fraud.
The payment didnt flag on Monzos systems. I considered the nature of the payment in the 
context of whether it was unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr R normally ran his account, 
and I didnt think it was. This is because it was to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange 
company and it wasnt for a particularly large amount, so it wasnt suspicious or unusual. So, 
I didnt think Monzo missed an opportunity to intervene to prevent Mr Rs loss.
Reasonable adjustments
Mr R complained that Monzo failed to make reasonable adjustments for him under the 
Equality Act 2010. I took the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding the complaint  
given that its relevant law  but I ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and 
reasonable. I explained that if Mr R wants a decision that Monzo has breached the Equality 
Act 2010, then theyd need to go to Court.
Mr R had suggested that because he has ADHD, Monzo should have intervened each time 
he made a large payment. But as I explained above, it is already expected to intervene if 
consumers make payments that are suspicious or unusual and we wouldnt expect it to stop payments simply because Mr R has ADHD, especially as Id seen evidence that he had 
previously expressed concerns to it about blocking payments.
Mr R told Monzo he had ADHD, but it wasnt on notice about how it affects the way he 
manages his finances and there had been no agreement about reasonable adjustments, so 
it didnt know whether he required any. He had explained the ADHD means he struggles to 
manage his finances, but this was never made clear to Monzo. So, I didnt think the type of 
adjustment Mr R required was obvious, especially as an exchange he had with Monzo in 
2022 suggested he was nervous about things going wrong when making large payments, as 
opposed to an issue around impulsive spending.
Mr R also said that Monzo ought to have stopped the payment from going through because 
it was still pending when he reported the scam to it. But it had explained that pending simply 
meant it was waiting to be collected by the merchant, and there was nothing it could do to 
stop it because it had already been authorised. I was satisfied that explanation was 
reasonable and that there was nothing it could have done to stop the payment by the time 
Mr R reported to scam to it.
Compensation
Monzo offered Mr R £175 compensation for failings in the service he received. It accepted 
there were delays investigating the claim and that this left him feeling it wasnt taking his 
concerns seriously. It also accepted that even though he first contacted it about the payment 
on 29 January 2023, it didnt issue its final response until 28 March 2023. It apologised for 
this delay and accepted it responded to the complaint outside of its 35-day time limit. It also 
accepted it was slow to respond to Mr R via the in-app chat and that he had to wait for a 
response on more than one occasion. And that there was a delay in sending a replacement 
card.
I thought about how Monzos failings affected Mr R and I didnt think £175 compensation 
reflected the impact its failings had on him. Mr R was left unable to sleep and the symptoms 
of his ADHD were exacerbated by the way Monzo communicated with him. I accepted he 
was very worried and frustrated and that Monzo failed to consider that his ADHD meant the 
situation might have been more distressing for him. So, I was minded to direct it to pay a 
further £175 compensation (in addition to the £175 it had already offered).
Developments
Mr R hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
Monzo has argued  that an additional £100 would more fairly compensate Mr R for what 
went wrong and for the impact to his mental health.
On the issue of compensation, it has commented that there were no vulnerability flags on Mr 
Rs customer profile, and it didnt know he had ADHD until 3 February 2023. It has explained 
that if it had known sooner, it could have put steps in place to support him.
Monzo has also pointed out that Mr E said his mental health was affected by its inability to 
prevent his loss, which is at odds with the finding that it couldnt have prevented his loss. 
And that the time he spending chasing it for updates shouldnt be considered because as he 
was told he would be updated but continued to chase for updates.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the additional points raised by Monzo, but my findings on what I consider 
to be fair and reasonable compensation remain the same. I accept Mr R didnt tell Monzo he 
had ADHD until 3 February 2023, but Im satisifed it was on notice that he had ADHD by the 
point at which the accepted failings happened.
I note the comments about scam liability and the time Mr R spent chasing Monzo for 
updates. I didnt consider the impact of the loss in my assessment of what was fair and 
reasonable compensation. My assessment is based on how Monzos failings in the period 
after Mr R reported the scam to it affected him. In concluding that Monzo should pay further 
compensation, I have thought about the impact on Mr R of Monzos failings and not the 
impact of his own actions, and I maintain that an additional £175 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr 
R an additional £175 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman