DRN-2795147
The complaint
Mr W is represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC) in this complaint. The CMC 
complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank (Clydesdale) provided 
unsuitable advice to Mr W. 
What happened
In October 1998, Mr W asked Clydesdale for advice in investing a sum of money that he had 
received as compensation for a work-related accident. Mr W met with an adviser from 
Clydesdale who recommended that he invest £60,000 across two investment bonds. Mr W 
took this advice and invested £50,000 (Bond A) and £10,000 (Bond B). 
Mr W surrendered the bonds on 25 April 2007 and September 2000. They had surrender 
values of £46,771.77 and £10,812.78.
In 2002, Mr W complained to Clydesdale about Bond A. Mr W complained about Market 
Value Adjustment being applied and about the level of risk. Clydesdale did not uphold the 
complaint.
In November 2019, the CMC complained to Clydesdale about the initial advice provided to 
Mr W in 1998. The CMC said that the advice was unsuitable.
Clydesdale replied to the CMC on December 2019 and said that the complaint had been 
brought about too late and it was not a complaint they could consider. They said that they 
had already replied to a complaint from Mr W in 2002 and as the other bond had been 
surrendered more than 6 years from the date of the complaint, it had been made too late.
Unhappy with Clydesdales decision, the CMC referred the complaint to the service and one 
of our investigators looked at the complaint. The investigator initially held the view that it was 
a complaint that the service could consider and asked for further information from 
Clydesdale.
Clydesdale provided further information and the investigator issued a second view saying 
Clydesdale had acted fairly in providing advice to Mr W. The investigator did not uphold the 
complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, the CMC have asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
will not be upholding the complaint.
This decision will only deal with Bond B where Mr W invested £10,000. As Mr W had 
previously complained to Clydesdale in 2002, the service cant consider this complaint as it 
has been brought about too late under the Complaint Dispute Resolution Rules of the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
In their submission to the service, the CMC say that Clydesdale provided unsuitable advice 
to Mr W. The CMC listed the following reasons:
Mr W had no prior experience in investment at the time of the advice 
Mr W had other borrowings outstanding at the time, but these were not included in the 
review
The adviser didnt take into consideration Mr Ws circumstances such as his plan to 
reduce working hours
When a business provides investment advice to a consumer it has to consider the clients 
personal and financial circumstances. The business will normally carry out a fact find 
exercise to get this information and then they will provide advice based on these answers.
I can see that Clydesdale conducted a fact find exercise with Mr W on 23 October 1998 and 
I have reviewed the document that records Mr Ws answers about his personal and financial 
circumstances.
The CMC have said that Mr W did not have any investment experience at the time of the 
advice. I can see that the fact find records that Mr W did not hold any investments and in the 
absence of any other information, this may give an indication that Mr W did not have much 
investment experience. Although this may be the case, it does not necessarily mean that 
that the advice was unsuitable. 
When a business provides advice, it must also record the consumers attitude to risk and 
identify their investment objectives. The recommendation must suit the consumers attitude to 
risk and be in line with their investment objectives.
I can see that the fact find records that Mr W had an attitude of risk of three (on scale of one 
to ten with one being low risk). The fact find document shows that bonds would suit this level 
of risk.
The document also records Mr Ws investment objectives as wanting capital growth over a 
time period of 5 years and beyond.
The adviser recommended that Mr W invest £10,000 into a bond that was rated two out of 
ten and contained a capital guarantee that ensured Mr W would receive at least his initial 
investment back with the possible of a higher return if market conditions were favourable. 
In their submission to the service, the CMC have said that the bond invested in Swiss 
companies and Mr W had no knowledge of the Swiss market so would not have been able to 
make an informed decision to purchase the bond. I acknowledge the CMCs comments, but I 
think that the bond recommended did suit Mr Ws financial circumstances and objectives and 
was suitable.
The CMC have said that the adviser did not consider other personal circumstances which 
would have impacted on the advice provided. I can see that parts of the fact find have been 
left blank or scored out. In their submission to the service, Clydesdale said that Mr W 
declined full advice and expected to remain with is employer and was in good health.As I was not present at the meeting between Mr W and the adviser, I dont know what was 
said and can only decide based on the evidence on file and what is likely to have been said 
based on the balance of probability.
The fact find records details of Mr Ws employment capacity and his salary. There is no 
record of Mr W informing the adviser that he was in the process of reducing his hours with 
his employer. Mr W has also signed the fact find and the declaration that reads I confirm 
that this information provided in this review is correct and is given on the understanding that 
it does not place me under any obligation to take up the recommendation.
Another piece of information that a business should consider is whether the consumer can 
afford the recommended investment. From what I have seen from the file, Mr W had assets 
of around £35,000 so he had enough savings should he have to access them in an 
emergency.
I have considered the documentation available to me and what may have been said at the 
time of the initial meeting. I think that even if Mr W had said that he was looking to reduce his 
hours with his employer, he had access to funds that would have made the investment 
affordable.
In summary, I think that the advice provided to Mr W took account of his personal and 
financial circumstances and was suitable. Mr W also surrendered the bond within two years 
of him investing and the bond generated a profit. Im not going to ask Clydesdale to do 
anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman