DRN-3730405
The complaint
Mr H has complained about what he considers to be the misleading and incorrect 
information on Standard Life Assurance Limiteds (SL) platform and statements, which led to 
him making financial commitments that hes said he wouldnt otherwise have made.
Mr H has said that, as a result, hes incurred an additional tax bill of around £54,000.00. Mr 
H would like SL to compensate him for this.
What happened
The investigator who considered this complaint set out a detailed background to the 
complaint in his assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background 
below, with some amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In 2020, Mr H decided to make two large financial commitments. In June 2020, Mr H started 
work on his garden, which would cost £40,000.00. Mr H made payments along the way from 
other sources, but the final payment was due in Spring 2021. 
In August 2020, Mr H placed an order with a manufacturer to build a chalet. He paid a 
£60,000.00 deposit and the build was due to complete in March 2021.
On 18 February 2021, his financial advisers placed a request for him to withdraw what was 
thought to be his tax-free cash entitlement of £87,147, which was the balance shown on the 
SL platform. 
But SL responded to say that Mr H had already used more than 96% of his Lifetime 
Allowance (LTA) and that he had an available amount of £13,612 as tax-free cash.
SL explained that the platform always showed available tax-free cash as 25% and didnt 
reduce in line with the amount of the LTA already used. Mr Hs advisers asked whether SL 
had considered the fixed protection certificate put in place in 2014 for £1.5M and SL said it 
had. SL confirmed this on 3 March 2021, and that Mr H had 3.63% left of his tax-free cash 
allowance. The sum of £13,612.50 was then paid out.
On 18 March 2021, Mr H made a further payment request for £56,000, which was paid, and 
then a further request for £85,000 was paid out on 15 April 2021.
Mr H raised his complaint in April 2021 about the misleading figures on the platform, but due 
to non-receipt and seemingly no chasers on Mr Hs behalf by his financial advisers, the 
complaint wasnt logged by SL until November 2021.
SL reviewed the complaint points and accepted that the information was mis-leading. It also 
agreed that it had a duty of care to make sure it provided clear and accurate information. 
However, SL didnt agree to cover any tax costs incurred because it considered that Mr H in 
any case proceeded with his planned expenditure, even after learning that he didnt have as 
much tax-free cash available as hed previously thought. 
SL said that, given that the platform and statements set out that the tax-free cash wasnt 
guaranteed, it felt that it was reasonable to expect Mr H to contact his financial advisers 
before making the financial commitments and to make absolutely sure that he had the tax 
free funds available.
It accepted that there was conflicting information between the platform and Mr Hs 
statements, although both said that the tax-free cash figure wasnt guaranteed. SL has 
confirmed that theres a caveat on the platform which says the tax-free lump sum figure is an 
approximate value and may be subject to change. Further, it said, the section immediately 
below states the percentage of LTA already used. 
However, it also said that, as a pension provider, it was responsible for providing clear and 
accurate information to its customers. Because of this, SL offered Mr H £750.00 for the 
trouble and upset caused by the loss of expectation.
SL commented that Mr Hs adviser also had a duty of care to him. It said that Mr H had had 
the same firm of financial advisers since the plans inception and it too had a duty of care to 
provide him with accurate information and to ensure that it was aware of any crystallisation 
events affecting his LTA. 
Mr Hs advisers provided SL with his fixed protection certificate, which showed that he had 
protection of up to £1.5m, therefore meaning the maximum tax-free cash available to him 
was £375,000.00. Reference to the transaction history on Mr Hs plan would have 
established that he was nearing his LTA limit and therefore how much tax-free cash was still 
available.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr H referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think that it should be upheld, 
saying the following in summary:
Having carefully considered the information which had been provided, he could 
appreciate why Mr H had continued with the two financial commitments.
The garden works were close to completion by the time Mr H realised he had less tax 
free cash available, and the chalet order was closer to the final payment date than 
when it was ordered. Mr H had said he would also lose a £60,000 deposit, and there 
was no guarantee that he would have been able to recoup this via our service.
The two large pension fund withdrawals in March and April 2021 suggested that Mr H 
didnt have other available sources to cover this expenditure, and so the investigator 
though that it was unlikely that Mr H would have proceeded with both purchases at 
the outset, had he been aware of the actual tax free cash position.
But the investigator noted that, in conversation with Mr H, hed said that he was 
always going to do something with the plot of land on which he had a caravan, and 
that the chalet was intended to replace this. Mr H had agreed to sell the caravan to 
the site owner for around £40,000, and the latter also helped place the order for the 
chalet.The investigator said that it wasnt an overnight decision  and he would therefore 
likely have proceeded with the chalet regardless of the smaller amount of tax fee 
cash available to him. Mr H would then still have incurred a tax bill, but much smaller 
than that which he needed to pay on the withdrawals.
Mr H had committed to two projects with a total cost of £220,000, and in the belief 
that £87,000 was available in tax free cash. Mr H would therefore have needed an 
additional taxable amount of £133,000 to pay for the remaining cost.
Mr H confirmed that hed discussed his plans with his financial advisers, with whom 
hed had a relationship since 2014 when it arranged his fixed protection. They had 
also been his financial advisers at the inception of the policy, and so it was 
reasonable to assume that they had an accurate picture of his financial position so 
that he wouldnt exceed his LTA.
Given that, before making these financial commitments in 2020, Mr H had already 
used over 96% of his available tax free cash, this suggested that his financial 
advisers ought to have been aware of his position, especially if they were advising 
him on his retirement and pension planning and had executed previous withdrawals 
on his behalf.
Overall, although the investigator was sympathetic to Mr Hs position, he didnt think that SL 
had been wholly responsible. He considered that Mr Hs financial advisers also bore some 
responsibility and could have checked Mr Hs remaining entitlement. He also thought that, 
had he known the true tax free cash position, Mr H would in any case have proceeded with 
the chalet purchase.
In response, Mr H provided statements he received annually, and which he said set out his 
tax free lump sum without any reference to this being an approximation or a percentage of 
the LTA.
In a further telephone call with the investigator to discuss the matter, Mr H pointed out that 
his last statement still showed that he had £70,000 tax free cash remaining, even though 
hed withdrawn his last £13,000 in the 2020/21 tax year. 
The investigator agreed in the call that the wording wasnt explicit, but did recommend that 
the plan holder check their plans value, along with any remaining tax free cash and 
withdrawals to date.
But he also commented that the tax free cash figure could only decrease from one year to 
the next if withdrawals were being taken. And he reiterated his view that Mr Hs advisers 
should have picked up that, given the previous withdrawals which amounted to over 96% of 
his tax free allowance, Mr H wouldnt have had £88,000 remaining in February 2021. 
Mr H said that hed thought carefully about whether he would still have proceeded with the 
chalet purchase if hed known his true tax free cash position, and given the additional tax 
liability, he said that he wouldnt have done so. And although the investigator reminded Mr H 
that hed previously said that he would always have done something with his caravan plot, 
Mr H said that he would have upgraded the caravan instead.
The investigator reiterated his view that the true tax free cash situation ought to have been 
picked up by Mr Hs advisers, and Mr H confirmed that hed discussed his planned 
purchases with them and they would have had a full picture of his financial situation.As such, Mr H said that he would be raising this with his financial advisers, but he remained 
of the view that both businesses bore the responsibility for the situation.
The investigator and Mr H agreed that the matter would be referred to an ombudsman for 
review, and so its been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my view is aligned with the investigators to the extent that I think that the 
format in which SL set out Mr Hs tax free cash entitlement was at best unclear, and at worst, 
misleading. 
Although there were certain caveats as to the amount of the tax free cash not being 
guaranteed and liable to change, I think the statements themselves gave a pretty clear 
indication of what Mr H could expect to receive as remaining tax free cash. And this bore no 
resemblance to the reality of the situation, inflating the amount available by around £70,000.
This may be an anomaly, but if not, I would sincerely recommend that SL reconsider the way 
in which it sets out its customers tax free entitlement and that this is perhaps more indicative 
of the actual remaining tax free entitlement  given that the statements specifically state that 
the quoted amount is the remaining entitlement. This would reasonably in my view give the 
customer the impression that this has indeed factored in prior withdrawals.
I cant require SL to amend its processes, and so its a matter for it to decide how it presents 
its information to its customers - although I would point to its regulatory requirement to 
provide information in a manner which is clear, fair and not misleading.
However, I am able to consider the impact on Mr H of what I think was a communication 
error here. And my first consideration is whether Mr H, in the knowledge that his remaining 
tax free cash entitlement was around £13,000 rather than the much higher figure, would in 
any case have proceeded with the planned expenditure.
Ive noted what Mr H has said  that he wouldnt have proceeded to begin with, but once 
faced with the prospect of losing his deposit, he decided to continue. But this makes it very 
difficult to fairly and reasonably conclude that Mr H wouldnt in any case have proceeded. 
To clarify, Mr H could of course have withdrawn from his planned expenditure and then 
claimed the deposit from SL on the basis of what he considered to be the misleading 
information.
And although I note that Mr H was uncertain as to whether he would be successful in 
bringing such a claim to this service, if SL had been found to have provided misleading 
information which had led to Mr H embarking on his planned expenditure, and there was no 
break in the chain of causation, then this is an aspect which might have been upheld.
I further acknowledge that the additional tax Mr H has needed to pay isnt insignificant, but I 
also note that, even with what Mr H believed to be his remaining tax free entitlement, Mr H 
would still have needed to make a sizeable taxable withdrawal to complete his project. 
And so if Mr H was prepared to pay tax on that further amount, I cant rule out the possibility 
that Mr H would have also been prepared to pay tax on the withdrawal which he thought 
would be tax free.As Ive said above, its difficult to try to second guess what Mr H would have done armed 
with the correct information. But on the basis that he decided to proceed, rather than 
withdraw and make a claim for the loss of any deposit, I dont think I can fairly and 
reasonably conclude that it was more likely than not that he would in fact have withdrawn.
But even if there wasnt a clearly identifiable actual financial loss which I could fairly and 
reasonably attribute to SL, there was certainly a loss of expectation caused by the 
information provided by Mr H. And I agree that Mr H should be compensated for that.
I think Mr H would have been quite understandably shocked and concerned at the additional 
tax he needed to pay on his withdrawals, beyond that which he expected to pay. And so, 
taking into account the likely impact that this had on Mr H, along with the types of award that 
this service might typically make in similar situations, I think that the amount offered by SL is 
probably about right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint or make any further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman