DRN-2961207
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds decision to 
reject a claim they made under their home insurance policy. Lloyds avoided their policy and 
cited their fraud exclusion as the reason. Mr D is the lead complainant. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr D contacted their insurer Lloyds to register three claims: one of which 
was for the loss of a jacket with earphones belonging to their daughter which were left on a 
train. The claim for this item led to Lloyds decision to avoid their policy and Mr Ds 
complaint.
Lloyds rejected Mr Ds claim as it wasnt satisfied with the information Mr and Mrs D gave it. 
It cited its fraud exclusion under the policy and avoided the policies Mr and Mrs D held with 
Lloyds. 
Mr D asked us to look at his complaint. He said he reported the loss of the jacket and 
headphones to the train company at the time and felt this should have been taken into 
consideration. 
Our investigator thought Lloyds had reached its decision in a reasonable way and in line with 
the policy. 
Mr D would like an ombudsman to decide. He wants Lloyds to remove the fraud marker it 
has recorded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, its not for us to decide whether a policyholder has acted 
fraudulently or not. Instead, I need to decide if Lloyds acted reasonably on raising the fraud 
condition and taking the action it has.
Lloyds can cancel a policy if it believes a condition of the policy has been breached. In this 
case, Lloyds say, based on the evidence it has, its likely Mr D did breach the fraud condition 
of the policy. Lloyds policy says:
Fraud
The contract between you and us is based on mutual trust and we rely on the 
honesty of our policyholders If you or anyone acting for you knowingly or recklessly
provides information to us that is not true in order to obtain cover or cover at a lower 
premium or on better terms, or provides information or documentation to us that is 
fraudulent or dishonestly exaggerates a claim; or otherwise acts or behaves 
fraudulently in relation to your policy, then cover under the policy will end from the 
date of the fraudulent act and we;
will not pay any part of a fraudulent or exaggerated claim,
will not pay any claims arising after the date of the fraudulent act,
will retain any premium you have paid,
may recover any payments made to you or on your behalf and any costs and 
expenses incurred in respect of a fraudulent claim, whether these payments were 
made or costs and expenses incurred before or after the fraudulent act,
may recover any payments made to you or on your behalf for any other claims 
arising after the fraudulent act.
If you make a claim under the policy which is fraudulent or dishonestly exaggerated 
in any respect, we will not pay the claim and all cover under the policy will end from 
the date of the fraudulent act.
Based on the above, Im satisfied that Lloyds can cancel the policy if it wants to, if a 
policyholder breaches this condition.
When Mr D reported the loss of the jacket, Lloyds asked him to provide proof of ownership. 
In November 2019 Mr D sent Lloyds by way of an attachment a photo of Mrs D wearing the 
jacket before the loss in October 2019. 
Lloyds was able to check the data of the photo and found that it had been taken in 
November 2019 and the location was in a shopping centre. 
Lloyds asked Mr D for an explanation. He said it was a screenshot of the original photo 
which his wife had sent him while he was at a shopping centre. Lloyds wasnt satisfied with 
the response he gave. In subsequent exchanges, Lloyds asked Mr D to send the original 
photo, but he said he wasnt able to because it had been deleted.
After Lloyds rejected the claim, in December 2019 Mr D told Lloyds that there had been a 
misunderstanding. He said Mrs D had in fact taken the photo of her wearing the jacket on 
the date and in the location  the data from the photo had showed Lloyds. But Mr D said he 
wasnt aware of this until after hed given his explanations of the photo to Lloyds. 
While he accepted the information hed previously given was misleading, he said the 
assumption Lloyds made that the jacket was still in their possession didnt make sense. Mr D 
said his wife wouldnt have gone to the trouble of taking the photo of a jacket elsewhere if it 
was still in their possession. 
Mr D feels the outcome is disproportionately unfair, given the value of the jacket and that 
they didnt realise the gravity of their error. 
Mr D has since provided an original photo of his daughter wearing the jacket before October 
2019. And hes provided us with a copy email from the train company acknowledging it 
received a notification of loss on 17 October 2019  which supports the information Mr D 
gave about the time of loss when he first contacted Lloyds. 
But on consideration of this email, Lloyds says it doesnt change the fact that the photo Mr D 
provided was described as being taken before the loss, which wasnt true. 
I can see that when Lloyds challenged Mr D about the authenticity of the first photo he sent 
on more than one occasion, the information he provided was inconsistent. And having received the photo on his phone from his wife, Lloyds wasnt persuaded that Mr D and Mrs D 
hadnt discussed the origins of the photo until after it declined the claim. 
I understand Mr and Mrs D will be very disappointed with my decision. And I agree with Mr D 
that it wouldnt make sense to take a photo wearing a new jacket in a shop after the claim, if 
the jacket was still in their possession. But I dont think this changes the outcome  because 
I cant say that it was unreasonable for Lloyds to decide the fraud condition of the policy had 
been breached due to the inconsistent accounts Mr D gave it when making the claim.
And, having reached that conclusion, I think Lloyds was entitled to cancel the policies Mr and 
Mrs D held with it and add a fraud marker with a fraud prevention agency  as it set out 
under the terms of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman