DRN-3415842
The complaint
Mr H complains that the administration charges that Phoenix Life Limited levies on his 
pension policy are excessive, and that he is prevented from leaving the policy by an 
unreasonable exit fee. Mr H has also complained, more recently, about how Phoenix 
handled a data subject access request (DSAR) he made in January 2021.
What happened
Mr H holds pension savings with Phoenix. Those savings arose from a pension plan that he 
opened with Abbey Life in April 1996, and the monthly contributions he has made to the plan 
ever since.
In October 2020 Mr H got in touch with Phoenix to say that he was finding it difficult to 
maintain his monthly contributions to the plan. He noted that reducing his payments would 
lead to increased administration charges being added. And he said that the reduction that 
would be made to the transfer value of his pension savings was unfair. 
At Mr Hs request Phoenix treated his concerns as a formal complaint. In response it 
explained that the charges were being applied in accordance with the terms and conditions 
of the pension plan. So it said it was unable to amend the charges applied to the policy. 
Unhappy with that response Mr H referred his complaint to us. And, at the same time, Mr H 
wrote to Phoenix to ask for copies of its records relating to his pension policy. It doesnt 
appear that Phoenix responded to that request.
Mr Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He set out the relevant 
terms and conditions of the pension plan, and said that it appeared Phoenix was acting in 
accordance with them. So he didnt think the charges on the plan were unfair, or that the 
complaint should be upheld.
Mr H didnt agree with that assessment. He said that his application form for the pension 
plan was illegible and failed to show that he had agreed to Phoenixs unreasonable terms. 
So he thought he should be allowed to exit the arrangement free of charge. And he noted 
that the investigator had failed to deal with Phoenixs lack of response to his DSAR.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr H and by Phoenix. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I will first deal with what happened when Mr H asked Phoenix for copies of its records 
relating to his pension policy. Mr H says that request represented a DSAR, and that 
Phoenixs failure to respond to it amounts to a breach of the relevant regulations. From what 
I can see, this complaint hasnt been raised directly with Phoenix as yet. The information 
request was made at the same time that Mr H brought his complaint about the charges to us 
 and after Phoenix had issued its final response to his complaint. So any complaint about 
the lack of response to the information request would need to be raised with Phoenix in the 
first instance so it can investigate and issue a final response. If Mr H remains unhappy
having received that final response, he can refer the complaint to this Service.
Mr H first took out his pension policy in 1996. So it isnt entirely surprising that the 
documentation from the time is now of poor quality. But I dont agree with him that it is 
entirely illegible. The copy of the application form that Phoenix holds is sufficient for me to 
determine the decisions Mr H made when he took the plan, and that he agreed to the 
relevant terms and conditions.
When he first took out the pension plan in 1996 Mr H set his normal retirement age as being 
60 years. So that was the date that Phoenix used when assessing the contributions Mr H 
would need to pay, and the benefits that the pension policy might provide to him. Mr H 
agreed to start making net monthly contributions of £50 that would rise by 10% each year. 
I can see that those increases were added to Mr Hs contributions until 2021 when the 
escalation was removed at his request. At that time Mr Hs net monthly contributions had 
risen to £518.56 per month.
As part of his application Mr H signed to show his agreement to abide by the rules of the 
pension scheme. So Ive looked at the rules that were applicable when Mr H took out his 
pension plan. Phoenix has provided us with a document that is dated February 1996 so Im 
satisfied that those are the relevant terms and conditions applicable to Mr Hs policy.
There are two aspects to Mr Hs complaint that I will deal with in turn, by reference to the 
policy terms. First I will look at the annual management charges that are payable, and then 
I will consider what should happen if Mr H wants to retire early, or transfer his pension 
savings to another provider.
Section 17(a) of the policy terms explains that the policy has been set up on the premise that 
the regular monthly contributions will continue to be paid until the normal retirement date. It 
says;
(a) The Policy has been costed on the assumption that Regular Contributions will be 
paid throughout the term of the Policy.But the terms then go on to explain (in Sections 17(b) and 17(c)) what would happen if those 
contributions were reduced, or stopped early. They say;
(b) Where Regular Contributions are discontinued or their level is reduced, all or a 
proportion of the live units are transferred into a paid-up category and are known as 
paid-up units.
(c) An additional management charge is applied in respect of units in the live 
category, and a higher additional management charge is applied in respect of units in 
the paid up and fully paid-up categories. These are known as the live additional 
management charge, and the paid-up additional management charge.
The terms then go on to detail the actual charges that would be payable (for live and paid-up 
units) depending on the annual levels of contributions that were being made (in the case of 
live units), or for how long contributions had been made (in the case of paid-up units). In 
Mr Hs circumstances, the applicable charges would be;
Additional Management Charge for contributions below £5,000 pa  0.5%
Additional Management Charge for contributions above £5,000 pa  0.25%
Additional Management Charge for paid up units (after 60 months of contributions)  1.12%
So I think those terms clearly set out that Phoenixs expectation was that regular 
contributions would continue until the specified normal retirement age (60 years for Mr H). 
And Phoenix has explained that its management charges are applied evenly over the whole 
term of the pension plan. So ending contributions earlier than planned might leave a shortfall 
hence the need for additional paid-up charges to be levied. And I think it important to note 
that for around the first 20 years of the policy Mr H was actually paying management 
charges at the higher rate as his annual contributions didnt meet the £5,000 threshold.
For similar reasons, Phoenix would also reduce the value of the pension benefits if they 
were taken, or transferred to another provider, before the normal retirement date. Those 
provisions are contained in Section 18 of the terms and say;
The value of the benefit fund will be reduced by Abbey Life if:
(i) A personal pension becomes payable before Normal Retirement Age.
(ii) The policyholder elects that a personal pension is purchased from an alternative 
provider at a payment date before Normal Retirement Age.
(iii) The policyholder elects before taking retirement benefits, for a transfer value to 
be paid to a similarly approved pension or pension arrangement as the Policyholder 
may direct in accordance with the Rules.
And the terms go onto explain that the reduction will be calculated to take into account the 
management charges that would have been payable over the remaining term of the policy. 
So I dont think the reduction Phoenix told Mr H about  if he wanted to transfer his pension 
savings to another provider  was unreasonable, or unsupported by the pension plan terms 
that he agreed to in 1996.
But, since the terms were issued, legislative changes were applied in 2017 that mean early 
exit charges are capped at 1% for consumers aged 55 or over. And I note that the policy 
terms say the early exit charge would not be levied should the policyholder be within five 
years of their normal retirement age, and have paid more than 240 monthly contributions. 
I think that both those terms may now apply to Mr H so he might find it appropriate to discuss 
his situation once more with Phoenix.I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr H. But his pension policy is 
governed by a series of rules that he agreed to when he first took out the plan in 1996. 
I think that Phoenixs charges are in accordance with those rules, and so I dont think it has 
acted unfairly. It follows that I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Phoenix Life Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman