DRN-1427004
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr V says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2001 Mr V took out PPI at the same time as applying for a credit card by postal 
application.
The policy provided protection for Mr V's credit card payments in the event he couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out a monthly benefit 
of 10% of the outstanding card balance and it would do so for up to 10 months for 
unemployment and up to 12 months for accident and sickness. Its basic cost was 78 pence 
for every £100 Mr V owed on the card. 
At the time of the sale M V was employed, and he said he couldn't remember what his sick 
pay entitlement was - I think it's reasonable to assume Mr V would've been entitled to 
statutory sick pay. He said he had no other means he couldve used to make 
his repayments, and he was in good health at the time.
BoS' records show the credit card account ended in 2005.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said Mr V chose to 
take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for him.
Because Mr V disagrees - albeit he's not provided anything more or said why he disagrees -
 the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr Vs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Vs complaint. My reasons are set out below.
 
 
did Mr V have a choice about PPI? I think BoS made it clear that Mr V didn't have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this, it was after all several years 
ago.
BoS has provided a copy of Mr V's credit card application. And looking at this I can see Mr V 
signed a separate section of the application to take out PPI - something he could've left 
blank if he didn't want the cover.
So I'm satisfied that BoS made it clear that PPI was optional and that Mr V chose to take it 
out.
the information  
This was a sale by post. BoS didn't recommend the cover to Mr V - there was no staff 
member interaction and so no opportunity for this to happen. This means BoS didn't have to 
ensure the PPI was right or suitable for Mr V. But it did have to give him enough clear and 
timely information about the policy, so he could make an informed decision about it.
I don't think BoS did do this -  the information it gave Mr V about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as I found above, he chose to take it out - and he did so in his own time 
and away from any pressures of a sales environment. So it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. 
And based on his circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was inappropriate for 
him - for example he was eligible for the cover; he wasn't affected by the significant 
exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating to existing medical conditions or 
unusual employment circumstances; and Mr V had very limited existing means at his 
disposal - so it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
Mr V off taking out the cover. 
This means BoS doesn't have to pay back to Mr V everything he paid for PPI.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr V because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr V about that. Because BoS didnt tell  him, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
 My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr V.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr V any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman