DRN-2954866
Complaint
Mr J has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly debited interest, fees and 
charges from his account when it ought to have realised that he was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
  
Background
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought HSBC should have realised 
that Mr J was in financial difficulty by January 2015 at the latest and so it needed to rework 
Mr Js account to remove the effect of the interest, fees and charges it debited from this point 
onwards. 
Despite asking for and being provided with additional time to respond, HSBC didnt provide a 
substantive response to our investigators view. So the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when debiting 
interest, fees and overdraft charges from a customers account. So I dont consider it 
necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I also think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued debiting interest, fees and associated charges from Mr Js account from January 
2015 onwards. 
By this point, HSBC had already debited significant unarranged overdraft fees for six months 
in succession. HSBC will be aware that the relevant guidance and good industry practice in 
place at the time makes it clear that an increasing dependence on an unauthorised overdraft 
 such as Mr Js account use was displaying  was considered a sign or an indication that a 
customer may be in financial difficulty. 
In these circumstances, I think that HSBC ought to have done more to establish Mr Js 
financial position before debiting further charges. If it had done this here then it would have 
seen the real reason why Mr J was struggling to keep within his overdraft limit and his 
unsustainable use of the funds being lent. So I think that by January 2015, HSBC should 
have realised that Mr J was struggling financially and treated him with forbearance rather 
than debiting even more fees and charges from his account. 
As HSBC didnt react to Mr Js account usage and instead continued charging in the same 
way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. And as this led to Mr J paying 
additional interest, fees and charges at a when he was already experiencing difficulty, Im 
satisfied that he lost out as a result of HSBC failing to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
So HSBC needs to put things right.  
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mr J
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Js complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Js account so that all interest, fees and charges applied to it from 
January 2015 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on Mr Js account once these adjustments 
have been made HSBC should contact Mr J to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Js 
credit file, it should backdate this to January 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr J along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Js credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give    
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
It is my understanding that HSBC may have sold the outstanding balance on this account to 
a third-party debt purchaser. So it either needs to buy the account back from the third-party 
and make the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make 
the necessary adjustments, or pay Mr J an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this 
direction.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, upholding Mr Js complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman