DRN-3782879
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have said that Key Retirement Solutions Limited gave them incorrect 
information about redeeming their lifetime mortgage, which led to a delay in them 
remortgaging onto a lower interest rate. They say Key told them theyd need to pay the early 
repayment charge (ERC) out of their own funds, rather than adding it to the new mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took out their equity release mortgage in June 2010. They borrowed £64,000 
at a 7.20% fixed rate of interest.
In June 2017 they made contact with Key as they were looking for a lower interest rate. Key 
told them it wasnt possible to remortgage onto a lower interest rate. Thats because the total 
amount theyd need to borrow to repay the lifetime mortgage and ERC was more than could 
be arranged against their property value at that time.
Mr and Mrs A made contact again in January 2021 but unfortunately theres no recording of 
this call.
Further calls took place in August 2021, at which time Mr and Mrs As children also took part 
in the calls.
Mr and Mrs A complained to Key, saying Mrs A was told in January 2021 by a Key 
employee, that theyd have to pay the ERC upfront before they were able to remortgage onto 
a lower interest rate. Key didnt uphold the complaint and so Mr and Mrs A referred the 
matter to our service.
One of our investigators looked at things but didnt think Key had done anything wrong. They 
said Mr and Mrs A were given the correct information in 2017 and in August 2021, and 
without having the January 2021 call they couldnt safely say Mr and Mrs A had been given 
the wrong information then.
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree and so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. Where the 
available evidence is incomplete, contradictory or missing, our rules require me to reach my 
conclusions on the basis of what I consider is most likely to have happened on the balance 
of probabilities. 
In their submissions Mr and Mrs A have made reference to being given incorrect information 
on every occasion, rather than just in January 2021:
everytime that I rang Key up they stated that the £16,000 had to be paid before 
we could change anything.
At no time was it made crystal clear that we would not have to pay £16,000 before 
we could change our mortgage. We were always told that £16,000 had to be paid 
and as we did not have that sort of money we did not pursue the matter.
At no time before our sons took over were we CLEARLY told that we could add the 
ERC to a further loan.
I was consistently told that I would have to pay the ERC before I could remortgage.
But the call recordings we have dont support Mr and Mrs As recollections. There were 3 
calls in 2017 and in those it was discussed that Mr and Mrs A could add the ERC amount to 
the mortgage when looking for a new interest rate. The reason why things didnt progress at 
that time is that Mr and Mrs As property wasnt worth enough for a new mortgage to be 
arranged (that is, enough to pay off their existing lifetime mortgage plus the ERC that would 
be incurred).
Whilst I acknowledge Mr and Mrs As belief that the 2017 calls are irrelevant as theyre 
complaining about what was said in January 2021, I dont agree. In their submissions 
Mr and Mrs A repeatedly mention being given incorrect information on multiple occasions 
(everytime, always told, consistently told) but that isnt correct as weve got the 
recordings of the other calls in 2017 and 2021. In none of those calls does Key say that the 
ERC has to be paid before the re-mortgage could happen. There is only one missing call so, 
even if Mr and Mrs A were given wrong information in that call (which Im not saying either 
way here), then it cant be said that was every time/always/consistent.
Mrs A has said You have gone back to 2017 when my complaint was about 2021. My 
husband and myself took out the original loan and were both very aware of what was going 
on, we have now moved on to 2021 and both of us can get a little confused  But without 
the call recording Mr and Mrs A are asking us to uphold this complaint based just on their 
recollections which, based on their own explanations, are not always reliable. Thats not to 
say I think Mr and Mrs A are trying to mislead anyone and have made this complaint in 
anything other than good faith, but without any evidence to support their testimony Im 
required to reach my decision on the basis of what I consider is most likely to have 
happened, on the balance of probabilities. 
Ultimately, what that test means for Mr and Mrs A is that, as the parties bringing the 
complaint, it falls to them to present a case that is more likely than Keys case; not just as 
likely. Having considered what both sides have said I dont find Mr and Mrs As arguments 
about what was said in January 2021 to be any more than just as likely.
Having considered everything Im not persuaded it is more likely than not that Key gave 
incorrect information to Mr and Mrs A about the need to pay the ERC upfront, rather than 
including it in any new mortgage advance.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023. 
Julia MeadowsOmbudsman