DRN-3650462
The complaint
Miss B complains that after she successfully opened a Next Retail Limited catalogue 
shopping account, a temporary hold was put on it the next month.
What happened
In March 2022 Miss B opened a catalogue shopping account with Next Retail. The following 
month she was sent an email saying that because of updated information from the credit 
reference agency (CRA), a temporary hold had been put on the account. 
Miss B doesnt think this is fair as shes not missed any payments, paid late or gone over the 
credit limit she was given. She says its caused her inconvenience and distress.
Our investigator didnt think Next Retail had done anything wrong. As Miss B didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Since the complaint was referred to us, Next Retail reduced Miss Bs credit limit. Although 
Miss B has complained to Next Retail about this, this is a separate, albeit related issue, that 
weve not previously investigated. As such, it would be better dealt with as a separate 
complaint if Miss B wants us to look into what happened. So I havent commented on it in 
this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to give someone any credit, I would expect a lender, like Next Retail, to 
check the person would be able to afford to repay the credit in a sustainable way. And based 
on the information Next Retail had before it gave Miss B the account, it thought she would be 
able to afford to repay a credit limit of £300.
Once an account is opened, I would also expect a lender to continue to monitor the situation 
to make sure the credit remains affordable. Sometimes there will be signs from the way the 
account is managed that the credit might not be affordable. And sometimes, like happened 
with Miss B, there will be new information from a CRA that causes the lender to have 
concerns about whether the credit is affordable. 
I can see from Next Retails records that after the account was opened, it did receive some 
information from the CRA that might cause it concerns about Miss Bs ability to repay the 
credit. It wouldnt have been responsible for Next Retail to ignore this information. And I think 
its actions were fair when it put a temporary hold on Miss Bs account. 
I understand why Miss B was disappointed when Next Retail stopped further spending on 
the account. But, in the circumstances, I dont think it did anything wrong by doing this. It has 
said it will continue to monitor the situation and if Miss Bs credit file information improves, it 
will revisit its decision. I think this is fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2023. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman