DRN-3780204
The complaint
Mr H complains about a new fee he has been asked to pay on his Halifax Share Dealing 
Limited (HSDL) account. Hes also unhappy his account was suspended, and with the 
customer service he has received.
What happened
In 2021 HSDL introduced a new annual administration fee for accounts like Mr Hs. It wrote 
to him a few times about it, then in 2022 it told him the first fee was due. Mr H complained, 
and said the fee wasnt fair and he shouldnt have to pay it.
Also, in late 2022, HSDL put a restriction on Mr Hs account, because one of the letters it 
had sent him was returned due to an issue with the postcode. Mr H got in touch, and the 
postcode was corrected and his account derestricted. But Mr H complained, saying the 
restriction was unfair and had cost him missed dividends. 
Mr H also said when hed spoken to HSDL about the restriction, one of its agents spelt his 
name wrong. He said he had protected characteristics under the Equality Act and HSDLs 
actions amounted to a hate crime. For all of this, he thought HSDL should pay him 
compensation.
HSDL initially offered to waive the first years administration fee, but when it responded to Mr 
Hs complaint, it said it thought the fee had been fairly charged. And it didnt think it had done 
anything else wrong, so it said it wouldnt be taking any other action or making any offer of 
payment to Mr H.
One of our investigators looked into things, and didnt consider the complaint should be 
upheld. She thought HSDL had acted fairly and in line with the terms of the account. She 
acknowledged Mr H was unhappy about how hed been spoken to, and noted he had told 
both HSDL and our service about his disabilities and conditions. But overall she didnt think 
HSDL had treated him unfairly.
Mr H disagreed and so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying Ive considered Mr Hs submissions carefully, and I know he feels 
strongly about his complaint. Ive given considerable thought to his personal circumstances. 
Im obliged to have regard to, amongst other things, relevant law when making my decision 
and here that includes the Equality Act 2010. A firm is required to make reasonable 
adjustments for those with protected characteristics  and beyond the legal position Id 
expect a regulated firm to think about any of its customers that are vulnerable, and ensure it 
is respectful in its dealings with them and has regard for their interests.
Here, having thought about all that in the context of the events Mr H is unhappy about, I 
dont think HSDL has done anything substantially wrong. Ill explain why.
I dont think its inherently unfair or unreasonable for a firm to vary the terms of its accounts 
or the fees it charges for them. Here HSDL wanted to introduce an administration fee for Mr 
Hs account.
What Id have expected, in line with the rules and laws around fair terms in consumer 
contracts, is for HSDL to have a good reason for the change, to have given Mr H reasonable 
notice before he became bound by it, and to have offered him the chance to move his 
business somewhere else without unreasonable barriers or costs. Im satisfied that was the 
case here. 
HSDL wrote to Mr H more than a year before hed first have to pay the fee, and a few 
months before the first chargeable period started. It sent a further reminder about six months 
later, and another just before the first payment became due. In its correspondence it 
explained the reasons for the fee, the details of it and offered options to either sell holdings 
and close an account, or to transfer holdings elsewhere, for those who didnt want to pay it.
All in all I dont think HSDL acted unfairly in introducing the new fee, and so I dont think it 
would be fair to require it to refund what it has charged Mr H, or tell it not to charge the fee in 
future. I note Mr Hs point that HSDL initially offered to refund one instance of the fee  but 
when reviewing his complaint it changed its mind, as it concluded it had charged it fairly. The 
firm was entitled to vary what it offered until and unless Mr H accepted. And given I dont 
think the fee was unfairly charged, it follows I dont think its unreasonable HSDL declined to 
offer a refund.
I dont think HSDL did anything wrong in how or why it suspended Mr Hs account either. His 
application form shows hed signed to confirm his details with the wrong postcode on it. The 
error was minor  and so it may be that lots of post HSDL sent him was delivered 
successfully, even with the mistake. But Im satisfied in 2022 HSDL had some post returned. 
And its terms say that in those circumstances it will suspend an account until the matter is 
resolved.
I think thats fair, and designed to help keep customers money safe from potential fraud. Im 
pleased to see that HSDL was able to resolve things quickly once Mr H got in touch, and 
reactivated his account almost straight away. I dont think it needed to do anything differently 
here. I also dont think this cost Mr H anything, anyway. The relevant term talks about 
dividend reinvestment being suspended while an accounts restricted. But not normal cash 
dividends being paid. Ive not seen anything to suggest any payments Mr H was due on his 
holdings were withheld or otherwise not given to him when due.
Finally, Ive thought carefully about the webchat Mr H had with HSDL. I can see that the 
agent does misspell Mr Hs name at one stage. Im pleased to see the agent quickly 
apologised. I dont underestimate Mr Hs strength of feeling on the matter, and of course 
details are important. But overall Im satisfied this was an honest mistake which was quickly 
corrected and apologised for. Ive borne in mind Mr Hs personal circumstances and the 
relevant law but having done so I dont think this incident is one where it would be fair and 
reasonable to require HSDL to pay Mr H any compensation, or do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman