DRN-3642320
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with what he says was a personal contract purchase (PCP) agreement he 
took with BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial Services 
(BMWFS).
He says it wasnt made clear to him the difference between a PCP and a hire purchase 
(HP) agreement and he has lost out financially as a result.
What happened
Mr D took a credit agreement with BMWFS in February 2017 to acquire a used car. The 
agreement was taken over 48 months. Mr D paid an advance payment of £1,552 and the 
monthly repayments were £165.09. A balloon payment of £5,310 was due to be paid if Mr D 
decided to keep the car at the end of the agreement.
In February 2022 Mr D made our service aware of the complaint. He said hed lost out as a 
result of taking a PCP as hed now paid off the agreement and had to finance the amount for 
the balloon payment. He said the difference between a PCP and an HP shouldve been 
explained to him.
In May 2022 BMWFS made our service aware it was still looking into the complaint. Our 
service then began to investigate Mr Ds case.
Our investigator issued a view. She explained, in summary, that she couldnt say whether 
the difference between a PCP and a traditional HP was explained to Mr D. But, she said she 
was satisfied Mr D had signed an agreement that set out the interest applied, monthly 
repayments and the balloon payment due. And she also said shed seen no evidence Mr D 
had lost out financially due to taking the agreement he did, so she didnt uphold Mr Ds 
complaint.
Mr D disagreed. He said BMWFS should evidence that it was explained to him the difference 
in cost between a PCP and an HP. And he said BMWFS hadnt met its obligations set out by 
the Financial Conduct Authority in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
Our investigator explained this didnt change her opinion. So, the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied this doesnt fundamentally change the facts nor the subject of this complaint. 
But, its firstly worth explaining that Mr D didnt in fact technically take a PCP agreement. I 
say this as the agreement Mr D took didnt contain a Guaranteed Future Value (GFV) for 
the car. And the agreement is titled Hire Purchase Agreement. So, Im satisfied Mr D took 
an HP agreement, albeit one that contained a balloon payment at the end of the term if he 
chose to take ownership of the car. 
So, Mr D complains about an HP agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts such 
as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ds complaint 
about BMWFS.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulations 
and guidance. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant to this complaint. This 
explains, under certain circumstances, that finance providers are liable for what a credit 
broker says before a credit agreement is entered into.
So, Im satisfied I can consider what Mr D was told, or not, by the broker of the credit  the 
dealer here  before he entered into the agreement.
Im satisfied by an HP agreement, Mr D is referring to a traditional HP. By this I mean an 
agreement where the total amount owed wouldve been paid off by the end of the term of the 
agreement, rather than including a balloon payment.
I think the crux of Mr Ds complaint is that he believes he shouldve been given a comparison 
between an agreement with a balloon payment and one without. And he thinks hes lost out 
because of this.
I agree with our investigator that its very difficult to conclude whether Mr D was or wasnt 
told the differences between these options for finance. But, ultimately, I dont think I need to 
make a finding here. 
I say this because, while Mr D has said BMWFS didnt meet its obligations under CONC, 
CONC does not say that Mr D shouldve necessarily been provided with various 
comparisons of types of agreement nor types of HP.
I can see Mr D was given an agreement that set out the term, interest rate, monthly 
repayments and balloon payment. And Mr D has accepted he was happy with these terms at 
the time he took the agreement.
Thinking about everything here, I havent seen anything to suggest Mr D was misled about 
the finance he took nor given any incorrect information. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest BMWFS didnt meet its obligations under CONC.
If Mr D did take a traditional HP agreement, although he wouldnt have had to pay a balloon 
payment, this amount wouldve been spread out over the term. This means Mr Ds monthly 
repayments wouldve been significantly higher. And he wouldve had less flexibility at the 
end of the term of a traditional HP than under the HP he took.
I also havent seen anything to show the interest rate wouldve been lower if a balloon 
payment wasnt included in the agreement.
Thinking about all of this, I havent seen anything to suggest Mr D wouldve taken a 
traditional HP if he was given all of the information he thinks he shouldve been. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest he wouldve been in a better financial position if he did. 
Considering all of this, I think there would be very little to put right even if I concluded that 
Mr D shouldve been given a cost comparison. So, whatever happened here, I cant see 
there would be any action for BMWFS to take.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman