DRN-3384084
The complaint
Mr W complains about the actions of Clydesdale Bank Plc when he lost money to a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In June 2021 Mr W went into a Clydesdale 
Bank branch to make a £9,999 transfer for a second-hand car he had seen online. 
After not receiving the car and attempting to contact the seller, Mr W returned to the same 
branch to ask for help and was told it was likely he had been scammed. So, a claim was 
raised with Clydesdale Bank. 
Clydesdale Bank reviewed the claim and said it made the payment in line with Mr Ws 
instructions, so it wasnt going to refund Mr Ws money. Mr W remained unhappy, so he 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that he was satisfied 
Clydesdale Bank hadnt treated Mr W unfairly by allowing the payment to be sent to the 
scammers because Clydesdale Bank reviewed the documentation Mr W brought to the 
branch with him on the day he made the payment. And staff completed a questionnaire 
which confirmed a fraud and scams warning was given. 
Mr W disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said Clydesdale Bank 
shouldve done more to warn him about the dangers of sending money in branch and that 
there is little protection for sending money via this method. He added that Clydesdale Bank 
shouldve warned him it wasnt signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr W has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
The CRM is a scheme through which consumers can sometimes be refunded by their bank 
when theyve been the victim of an authorised push payment scam. But Clydesdale Bank 
hadnt agreed to be part of the CRM when Mr W made the payment and the CRM isnt 
retrospective. So, as the CRM doesnt apply to this complaint, I cant use it as the basis to 
ask Clydesdale Bank to do more. 
It is common ground that Mr W authorised the scam payment of £9,999. I accept that this 
was an authorised payment even though Mr W was the victim of a scam. So, although it 
wasnt his intention to pay money to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of his account, Mr W is presumed liable for the loss 
in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for Clydesdale Bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a 
payment in order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, the starting point here is whether the instruction by Mr W given to Clydesdale Bank was 
unusual in relation to his typical account activity. Clydesdale Bank thought the payment was 
unusual which is why it completed the form and asked further questions of Mr W in the 
branch. So, I need to decide whether Clydesdale Bank shouldve done more here. 
Id expect Clydesdale Bank to review Mr Ws account activity to assess whether the payment 
is unusual like it did here. And then ask probing questions about the nature of the payment 
so it can give suitable fraud and scam warnings where its appropriate to do so. The notes 
from the branch visit show Mr W provided documents from the seller and a holding company 
he needed to transfer the money to. A statement from the branch staff, including the 
manager, state these documents were reviewed and Mr W was happy to continue with the 
payment after he completed a fraud and scams questionnaire. The form also noted that 
Mr W was happy the money was being sent to a holding company until he was happy with 
the car. 
Mr W has said he didnt have his glasses with him when he went into the branch to make the 
payment, so he didnt read the questionnaire. And that the member of staff hurriedly read 
this out to him. He doesnt think the branch staff did enough to make him aware of the risks 
involved in making the payment. 
Ive considered the evidence carefully. Having done so, I dont think Clydesdale Bank treated 
Mr W unfairly here. Im satisfied Clydesdale Bank staff correctly challenged Mr W on the 
reasons for the payment and made notes about the payment being sent to a holding 
company on the questionnaire. So, I think Mr Ws paperwork was reviewed and he was 
asked probing questions about the payment. The questionnaire and statement from the 
members of staff also confirm this and that Mr W was still happy to make the payments. 
Clydesdale Banks role here is to highlight the risk associated with the payment and to check 
Mr W is aware of common scams before confirming he still wishes to go ahead with the 
payment. I accept that Mr W is the victim of fraud but from the evidence Ive been presented 
with, I dont think Clydesdale treated him unfairly by allowing the payment to be sent. 
Mr W didnt have his glasses with him so in order for the branch staff to mention the holding 
company and details of the payment in the questionnaire a conversation  more likely than 
not wouldve taken place about the payment  which is what Id expect to happen. Mr W has 
also confirmed to this service the branch spoke to him about the payment and looked at the 
scammers website. Ultimately, a decision to continue to make the payment was made by Mr W. And I dont think there was enough evidence for Clydesdale Banks staff to be so 
suspicious of the payment that it shouldve refused to make it because Mr W said he had 
conducted his own research into the website and the holding company. As a result, 
Clydesdale Bank not discussing the CRM with Mr W on the day he made the payment is 
unlikely to have been a deciding factor in whether he wouldve still gone ahead with the 
payment. 
Ive considered whether Clydesdale Bank acted reasonably after it was made aware of the 
scam. Mr W made it aware of the fraud in branch in July 2021 and a request to recover his 
money was made to the beneficiary bank the same day. Clydesdale Bank didnt get a 
response from the beneficiary bank until October 2021 which confirmed there was no money 
left to recover. Its common for scammers to move money very quickly once its been 
received. And because of the circumstances of the scam and Mr W waiting for the delivery of 
the car, its more likely than not that when the scam was raised - around nine days later - the 
money was no longer in the account. So, I dont think there is more Clydesdale Bank can do 
here.
As a result, Im not going to ask Clydesdale Bank to take any further action.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman