DRN-3570081
The complaint
Ms I complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to protect her account and intervene on 
payments she made to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for the following reasons:
Barclays has systems in place to detect unusual or out of character transactions for a 
customer. Ms Is representative has said that two other larger payments Ms I made can 
be discounted as they were transfers between Ms Is Barclays accounts or her own 
accounts with another bank. But I dont agree with this.
Barclays systems are automated and look at account usage as a whole. So when large 
amounts of money are moving in and out, particularly to other banks, this will impact her 
overall account usage. The transactions Ms Is representative has discussed are from 
September 2019 and said they are to Ms Is own accounts. I accept the account 
elsewhere may have been Ms Is, but for the purposes of the systems this is a £10,000 
bill payment and was made on the same day as a £10,000 transfer, so regardless these 
will change her average outgoings.
Ive reviewed the general account activity for Ms I in additions to the payments above. 
She sends £5,000 in March 2020 to a third party, taking her account spending that day to 
over £6,000. In early June she then sends £7,000 to an account with another bank which 
may or may not be her own account, taking her account spending to over £7,500 that 
day. And another day in June over £4,000 is sent out in one day. So by the time Ms I 
sends her first large payment of £6,938 to the cryptocurrency firm in late June 2020, I 
cant agree this is an unusual amount. 
The next payment isnt made until August 2020, and while this is for £10,000, I dont 
think it wouldve appeared unusual considering the above. Theres been some time 
between the payments, the account isnt drained and doesnt have large amounts sent 
out quickly. This is a payee shes now used before twice, and sent a large sum to. And 
so I agree with the investigator that this doesnt seem so out of character with Ms Is 
general spending that it ought to have flagged. 
Its accepted by both parties that payments to the scam then did become part of Ms Is 
regular pattern. So then I cant say Barclays later missed an opportunity to intervene and 
then unravel this scam. I dont agree Barclays missed an opportunity to intervene at the 
start and so then the further payments werent unusual, especially the more Ms I made 
them.
As Ms I sent the money to her own cryptocurrency account and it was from here her loss 
occurred, there are no recovery options for her. She did receive the cryptocurrency in 
exchange for her funds and then this was sent on to the scam firm.
I do appreciate Ms I has lost a very large sum of money to this scam. But her overall account 
spending before the scam and then the way it was orchestrated means that I dont agree 
Barclays needed to intervene on any of the transactions. So this means Im not directing it to 
reimburse Ms I for any of her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms l to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman