DRN-3750131
The complaint
Mr Q has complained about the valuation that was carried out on a property as part of a 
mortgage application he made to Molo Tech Ltd trading as Molo Finance.
What happened
Mr Q applied for a mortgage to purchase a new property, and as part of that Mr Q paid a 
valuation fee. The valuation was carried out on 11 January 2022, and Mr Q felt the current 
market rent was down valued from the £1,550 per month he thought it was worth, to £1,050.
Mr Q wasnt happy with the rental figure given so he made an appeal to Molo. The appeal 
wasnt successful, as the comparable properties and information provided didnt meet the 
criteria required by the surveyors. Mr Q remained unhappy so complained to Molo. He said it 
was for Molo and the surveyors to provide the comparables it had relied on when down 
valuing the property.   
Molo considered his complaint but didnt uphold it. It said the valuation was paid for my Mr Q 
but it was carried out for Molos purposes. It said it had instructed independent surveyors 
and so it was entitled to rely on the contents of the valuation, but it couldnt be held 
responsible for the content of the valuation itself. 
Our investigator said Molo didnt do anything wrong as it appointed an independent and 
competent valuer, and it was entitled to rely on their report. Mr Q didnt agree and said the 
surveyors had clearly undervalued the figures and Molo should have done more to 
investigate the error in the valuation. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Molo doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a surveyor. 
When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement that was 
fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Molo isnt accountable for the conduct of the individual surveyor or any act (or omission) by 
the surveyor or the firm they work for. Molo is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or 
didnt do); we cant consider complaints against it for things a separate business did (or 
didnt do).
All I can consider against Molo is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of 
surveyors and having considered everything Im satisfied it did.
I understand Mr Q thinks Molo should have done more to further investigate the down valued 
market rent, but I dont think it acted unfairly. I say this because Mr Q asked to appeal the 
valuation and Molo contacted the surveyors to consider the information provided my Mr Q 
and his broker. The surveyors set out the type of comparable properties Mr Q needed to 
send for them to consider the appeal. 
As the surveyors werent satisfied with the information provided the current market rental 
figure stood following the appeal. So there was nothing further Molo needed to do. It was 
entitled to rely on the report it received from the independent professional that had been 
instructed. 
While I can appreciate Mr Q paid for the valuation and it must have been frustrating for him. 
The valuation fee was spent when the surveyor visited the property so there are not 
grounds for me to order it to be refunded by Molo when it hasnt done anything wrong. The 
valuation was carried out which is what the fee was paid for, the fact it didnt go in Mr Qs 
favour doesnt mean the fee should be refunded.
Overall I cant reasonably conclude that this was the fault of Molo so I wont be asking them 
to do anything further here.  
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman