DRN-1891763
 
 
Complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) that was taken out to 
go with a mortgage in March 1995 and June 2003. Mr and Mrs T say Ipswich Building 
Society (Ipswich) mis-sold them the policies. 
The first policy was taken out jointly by Mr and Mrs T in March 1995, whilst the second policy 
was taken out  by them in June 2003 but in Mr Ts name only. 
Background
The March 1995 policy was taken out jointly by Mr and Mrs T. It appears to have lapsed at 
some point in 2000. In June 2003 Mr and Mrs T took out a new policy, but this one was in Mr 
Ts name only.
In my provisional decision dated 27 April 2020, I explained that I intended to uphold the 
March 1995 policy as having been mis-sold. This was because Mr T was self-employed 
when he and Mrs T took out the PPI and the policy terms and conditions would have made it 
difficult to make a successful claim on the policy, requiring him either declare himself 
bankrupt or to permanently close his business. 
For the PPI sold in June 2003, given that I had only limited information about the policy, I 
asked Ipswich to see if it could find more information before I made my finding about 
mis-sale.
Developments 
Ipswich confirmed it had received my provisional decision. It made an offer of compensation 
to Mr and Mrs T for the policy sold in March 1995. However, the offer was not in line with our 
redress approach. Ipswich also confirmed that it was prepared to provide a full refund of the 
premiums plus interest for the policy sold to Mr T in June 2003. 
Mr and Mrs T also confirmed receiving my provisional decision and said they had nothing 
further to add. We told Mr and Mrs T about the offer Ipswich had made and how it differed 
from our approach. They have now rejected this offer.
My findings 
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in 
deciding this case.
Given that the offer made by Ipswich for the March 1995 sale does not reflect our redress 
approach and has been rejected by Mr and Mrs T, I see no reason in these circumstances to depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision. I therefore uphold this PPI sale 
as being mis-sold. 
I also uphold the sale of the policy sold to Mr T in June 2003 as being mis-sold.
What Ipswich Building Society should do to put things right
Ipswich should put Mr and Mrs T in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI 
in March 1995 or Mr T hadnt taken out PPI in June 2003. Each policy should be cancelled, if 
it hasnt been cancelled already, and Ipswich should:
Pay Mr and Mrs T the amount they paid each month for each policy.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs T made a successful claim under either of these PPI policies, Ipswich 
can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Ipswich to take off tax from this interest. Ipswich must 
give Mr and Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding both the March 1995 and June 2003 sales 
policies as being mis-sold. Ipswich Building Society must now pay compensation to Mr and 
Mrs T in accordance with the details Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman