DRN-3853031
The complaint
Mrs A complains about QIC Europe Ltds decision to decline a claim for repairs to a watch 
under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs A has a home insurance policy underwritten by QIC which covers her home and its 
contents, amongst other things.
She made a claim after accidentally damaging the strap of a watch. She provided QIC with 
an estimate from the manufacturer for replacement of the strap (at just over £2,500) and a 
service (at just over £400).
QIC declined the claim. They said Mrs A hadnt listed the watch as a specified valuable 
when she bought the policy. They said theyd asked her to list valuables worth more than 
£2,000. And they said the policy terms made it clear that valuables worth more than £2,000 
which werent specified by the policyholder werent covered.
Mrs A wasnt happy with this and complained to QIC. And when they maintained their 
position on the claim, she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it. She thought QIC had acted unfairly in declining Mrs As claim. 
She asked QIC to settle the claim up to the limit for single item unspecified valuables set out 
in the policy (£2,000), less the excess.
QIC disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. They think Mrs A ought 
to have known the watchs value. They think that value is well in excess of £2,000. And they 
think the policy terms are clear that QIC will not cover any claim for an item worth more than 
£2,000 if that item isnt specified by the policyholder.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to uphold this complaint. And I agree with our investigator that QIC should pay 
Mrs A £2,000 less the excess to settle her claim. Ill explain why.
QIC say Mrs A should have known the value of the watch was very likely to be over £2,000 
when she bought the policy. 
Mrs A tells us the watch was bought around 40 years ago for £800. She says she didnt think 
it had appreciated in value by so much as to take it beyond the £2,000 limit set out in the 
policy.
The watch is made by a well known manufacturer of watches, jewellery and other items. It 
has a certain prestige, its fair to say. And one might reasonably expect the watch to gain 
value at least in line with inflation rather than depreciate over time.
However, it would have had to go up in value by more than 2% every year  for 40 years or 
so - to be valued at more than £2,000 when Mrs A made her claim. 
So, I dont think Mrs A was being irresponsibly or wildly nave when she thought the watch 
was worth less than £2,000. In fact, although its difficult to be sure of the exact match, very 
similar watches made by the same manufacturer and of roughly the same age are available 
for not too much over £2,000 at present. You might reasonably expect to be able to replace 
the watch for around £2,500 on the current market.
If the policy terms (which Ill turn to below) set a limit for unspecified valuables at £2,000, we 
might think it unfair for an insurer to decline a claim altogether when an insured item turns 
out to be worth more than that if, in all the circumstances, the policyholder might reasonably 
claim to have been unaware that the value of the item exceeded the limit.
In this case, given the original cost of the item, the time since it was bought and the apparent 
value now, I think it would on balance be unfair to Mrs A to decline the claim, even if a very 
strict interpretation of the terms of the policy would allow that.
QIC also say the value of the item is clearly in excess of £2,000. They havent provided any 
evidence that theyve valued the watch. Theyve simply said the replacement cost of the 
strap set out in the manufacturers estimate (£2,500) indicates that the watch altogether is 
worth significantly more than £2,000.
As I say, it appears the value of the watch on the open market may well be more than 
£2,000 (see above), but not by a vast amount. And the manufacturers estimate states that 
the strap can only be replaced with a new, modern equivalent (not the original). It also warns 
the prospective customer that the price of the repairs might well exceed the value of the 
item.
Taking all of that into account, I think its unfair to Mrs A for QIC to assume the value of the 
watch is well over £2,000 solely on the basis of the manufacturers repair estimate.
Finally, Ill come to the policy terms. The relevant paragraph (which is in Section 2 of the 
policy) was quoted to Mrs A in QICs final response to her complaint to them. Under the 
heading Sums Insured, it says:
i. Contents  up to the contents sum insured shown in your schedule.
ii. Unspecified valuables - £10,000 or the amount shown in your schedule whichever 
is higher. The most we pay for any unspecified valuable is £2,000.
iii. Specified valuables  if you have specified valuables they will be shown in your 
schedule. If you have not specified any valuables, they will not be covered.
Valuables are defined elsewhere in the policy and include watches and items made of gold 
or other precious metals. Mrs As watch is partly made of gold and is, exactly, a watch  so 
its clearly a valuable in the terms of the policy.
Frankly, the policy terms are at best ambiguous and at worst make no sense at all.
In point iii (above), it says valuables (any watch or anything made from precious metals, 
amongst other things) arent covered unless theyre specified. And yet QIC only ask their 
customers to specify items worth more than £2,000. QIC refer in the policy to unspecified 
valuables, so they clearly accept a valuable might be worth less than £2,000. Its not entirely clear then whether a watch (a valuable) worth £1,999 would be covered 
(because its worth less than £2,000) or not (because its a valuable and its not specified).
More importantly perhaps, in terms of Mrs As complaint, a perfectly reasonable  in fact, 
arguably the most natural - reading of the paragraph suggests that point ii and point iii flatly 
contradict each other.
Point ii suggests that if you dont specify a valuable, the most QIC will pay for any single 
claim is £2,000  irrespective of the value of the item. Point iii says that they wont cover 
unspecified items at all if theyre worth more than £2,000  and/or (see above) that they 
wont cover any valuables at all if theyre not specified, no matter how much theyre worth.
Im satisfied then that the term QIC are relying on to decline Mrs As claim is ambiguous. 
And where policy terms are ambiguous, we take the view that the policyholder is entitled to 
expect that the meaning given to those terms is the most advantageous one to them (the 
customer). 
The policy is written by the insurer. And is used to sell the product to the customer. And the 
insurer is the expert, not the customer. If the policy is written in such a way that the customer 
could legitimately read it in a way not intended by the insurer, then the insurer is responsible 
for that and will in all fairness have to suffer the consequences.
So, in summary, I dont think its fair to Mrs A to say she ought to have been aware the watch 
was worth more than £2,000 and to decline her claim on that basis. I dont think QIC have 
valued the watch in any case. And the policy terms on which QIC rely to decline the claim 
are at best ambiguous. And for those reasons, Im upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
However ambiguous the relevant terms may be, I dont think anyone could reasonably read 
them to mean that QIC should settle Mrs As claim by paying for the full cost of the required 
repairs.
The best reasonable reading of the terms for Mrs A suggests that QIC will pay up to £2,000 
for any single unspecified valuable item (including watches and items made of precious 
metal).
On that basis, Im going to require QIC to pay Mrs A £2,000 to settle the claim and to 
contribute towards the repair costs for her watch, less the applicable excess set out in the 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs As complaint.
QIC Europe Ltd must pay Mrs A £2,000, less any applicable policy excess, to settle her 
claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman