DRN-3706219
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about HSBC UK Bank Plcs process and timescale for 
dealing with their payment protection insurance (PPI) mis-selling complaint.
This decision will also deal with the mis-sale element of the complaint.
What happened
In 2015 Mr and Mrs S contacted HSBC to find out if they had held any PPI policies, to which 
HSBC responded that it could not identify any. However, on 23 August 2021 HSBC wrote to 
Mr and Mrs S to explain that an earlier error had occurred as it had not originally had contact 
with the insurer for information. Having now done so, it had identified that they had in fact 
taken out mortgage PPI in 1997. Due to its error, HSBC gave Mr and Mrs S two months from 
the date of its letter to make a formal complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S made their complaint to HSBC on 13 September 2021, sending the required 
questionnaire back on 25 September 2021. However, HSBC said they hadnt received the 
questionnaire and so they sent it again in October 2021. Mr and Mrs S asked HSBC for an 
update on 30 November 2021. When they didnt hear anything further they contacted this 
service in January 2022. 
On 12 April 2022 HSBC wrote to Mr and Mrs S to apologise for not being able to provide a 
full response. It said it aimed to be able to do so within 20 weeks and hoped that they would 
allow it the opportunity to investigate. However, the letter also advised that they had the right 
to refer their complaint to this service.
On 14 April 2022 this service contacted HSBC to inform it that we were now looking into Mr 
and Mrs Ss complaint. So that would have been the first time that HSBC would have known 
that the complaint had been referred to us.
Our adjudicator initially only looked at the mis-sale element of the complaint and did not 
uphold it. Mr and Mrs S responded that they were actually complaining about HSBCs 
complaint handling and that they had not yet received an outcome about the mis-sale and so 
were not complaining about that. Our investigator then explained that HSBC had been 
unable to provide its final response because the complaint was one of a batch that was on 
hold. However, once the complaint was with us, HSBC was able to provide its submissions 
that allowed the adjudicator to assess the complaint.
Mr and Mrs S are dissatisfied with the adjudicators view and therefore the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Complaint handling
Mr and Mrs S sent HSBC their PPI questionnaire for the second time on 8 October 2021, so 
I consider its from around that time that HSBC had enough information to start looking at the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S say that, if the complaint was on hold, why couldnt it inform them of that. 
However, the reasons for a particular group of cases being on hold was business sensitive 
and so Im satisfied that HSBC did not need to share that information. But HSBC did write to 
them on 12 April 2022 to explain that it was currently unable to provide a full response, 
apologising for the delay and setting out a timescale by which it would respond. Whilst it 
would have been disappointing to Mr and Mrs S that HSBC did not keep in more regular 
contact, overall Im satisfied that HSBC has acted reasonably in the particular circumstances 
of this case.
Mr and Mrs S say they have still not received a response from HSBC about their mis-sale 
complaint. However, once HSBC had been told that the complaint had been referred to this 
service, it would no longer seek to provide its own response, understanding that Mr and Mrs 
S had preferred to escalate their complaint to the ombudsman for investigation. So I find no 
fault on the part of HSBC in that respect. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S have said that their escalated complaint was only about HSBCs 
process and timescales. However, in their complaint form they stated that they were affected 
because they were awaiting the outcome of their claim, so it seems sensible that we should 
look at the entirety of the complaint to avoid any further delays.
PPI mis-selling
Mr and Mrs S say they were told in branch that they needed PPI. Mortgage Repayment 
Protector was a standalone product, meaning that you could have it to cover any mortgage, 
not just an HSBC mortgage. HSBC has information indicating that Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage 
was with another lender at the time. As that was the case, they cannot have thought that 
buying the PPI was a condition of getting the mortgage agreed.  
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs S have provided their genuine recollection of events. But 
the sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if their memories have faded. It 
could be that they were told that PPI was a good idea and something that they should buy 
rather than something that they had to buy but they are misremembering it after all this time.
From what we know of HSBCs sales process at the time, the PPI was usually presented as 
optional and I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that something different 
happened in this case.
On balance I consider that Mr and Mrs S most likely decided to buy the PPI, knowing that 
they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
HSBC advised them to buy the policy. That means that, in recommending the PPI to them, it 
needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time, the PPI was suitable for them.Mrs S would have received sick pay from her employer. But the policy would have paid out 
in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mrs S would have received full pay 
for. Mr S was self-employed, but the policy terms made it no more difficult for a self-
employed person to claim on the policy than an employed person. The couple say that they 
had savings at the time. But having the policy would have allowed them to retain any savings 
or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. So I consider 
that Mr and Mrs S had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it.
Its possible that HSBC didnt provide as much information as it should have about the PPI, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs S were not affected by any of 
those things. For example, they did not have pre-existing medical conditions that would have 
been excluded under the policy. As I think they had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy 
it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to change their minds. So 
they are no worse off as a result of anything HSBC may have done wrong, so theres nothing 
HSBC needs to do to put things right. It follows that I do not uphold the mis-sale complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman