DRN-3141370
The complaint
Mr G complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA, wont refund a payment he says he 
didnt authorise from his account.
What happened
Mr G says that a payment of just over £1,207 (sterling equivalent) made from his PayPal 
account on 30 January 2020 to purchase goods wasnt authorised by him. He says that he 
contacted PayPal as soon as he received an email about the payment. And he was unable 
to cancel the payment with the seller. The goods went to an address he didnt recognise.
PayPal said it wouldnt be refunding the money as it didnt see any evidence of unauthorised 
access to Mr Gs account. It said that a gift address had been entered after a successful log 
in to the account. The same computer IP address was used for this and further log ins until 
5 February 2020 from abroad. This was consistent with past genuine log ins and a postal 
address it had for Mr G abroad. Mr G had also made an item not received claim but the 
seller had provided evidence that the goods had been delivered.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr G had confirmed that all 
previous transactions to his account were genuine. These had been completed on his 
personal computer which was password protected. He said he hadnt shared his PayPal 
username and password with anyone. There was no explanation of how these details had 
been discovered. Our investigator thought it likely that a fraudster would have attempted 
multiple payments as quickly as possible to avoid detection. There had been no password 
change before the disputed payment. And the IP address information for this payment 
matched that for subsequent log ins to the account.
Mr G didnt agree. He said that the terms of use of PayPal stated that he wouldnt be liable 
for unauthorised payments. He believed that this would be honoured. He contacted PayPal 
as soon as he received the notification and he changed his password. The seller had told 
him that it had closed the account of the person who had bought the goods and so that 
hadnt been in his name. He didnt think that the possibility of his account being hacked had 
been considered. Mr G said he wanted a refund as he had done everything he could to stop 
this payment that he didnt authorise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with security information. And if it wasnt 
authorised Mr G wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
Im satisfied from the information PayPal has provided that this payment was authenticated 
following a log in to Mr Gs account using his password. The issue I need to decide on is 
whether he consented to it.
PayPal has shown 24 log ins to Mr Gs account using the same IP address as the one when 
the disputed payment was made. I note that Mr G says he had quickly changed his 
password. And there were two genuine transactions made using that IP address on 31 
January 2020 and 5 February 2020 with no attempts at further disputed ones seen.
I appreciate that the use of a new address for delivery, here in a different country abroad to 
that of Mr G was a potential concern. And so is what he says about the related account with 
the supplier being in the name of a third party, although I have no evidence to support this. 
However, neither of those factors meant that Mr G couldnt have genuinely bought goods for 
a third party.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and Im thinking about what is most likely. 
Ive looked at the pattern of log ins to Mr Gs account and the location of these over an 
extended period of time. Ive noted the consistency of IP address between the disputed log 
in and payment and genuine ones. There is no explanation of how an unknown person 
accessed Mr Gs details. While hacking wasnt impossible hes provided no evidence for that 
and PayPal doesnt see anything to support this being an explanation here either.
So, having balanced these factors I know I am going to disappoint Mr G when I say that Im 
not persuaded that its most likely he didnt consent to this payment. I consider it was 
authorised and it is reasonable for PayPal to hold him responsible for it. I wont be asking it 
to do anything more. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman