DRN-2687552
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont reimburse the 
costs paid to release Mrs As car when it was impounded while Mr A was driving. Mr A had 
been added to Mrs As car insurance policy before the car was seized.
What happened
Mrs A added her brother Mr A to her car insurance policy with RSA in December 2020. In 
January 2021 Mr A was stopped by police for not driving while insured and the car was 
impounded.
On the same day Mrs A made several calls to RSA. It provided a letter of indemnity and Mrs 
A was able to collect her car on the same day as it was seized. She had to pay a release fee 
of £150. She asked RSA to reimburse her. RSA didnt agree, and so Mrs A raised a 
complaint. 
RSA said in the first call that day it carried out a licence check against Mr A but this failed. 
So it told Mrs A she would need to find out why and come back to RSA. Until then, RSA 
wouldnt be able to provide a letter of indemnity and would remove Mr A from cover under 
her policy. 
However, during every subsequent call, RSA proceeded to arrange for a letter of indemnity 
and assured Mrs A that her brother was still insured to drive her car. 
RSA apologised for the poor service it provided and paid Mrs A £50 and sent her flowers. 
But it said that until enquiries were made with the DVLA as to why Mr As licence check 
failed, it wouldnt consider the claim for any losses as a result of the seizure. 
Mr A on behalf of Mrs A brought the complaint to us. Our investigator thought that as Mr A 
was insured to drive the car by RSA  and the DVLA check requirements were made after 
this  that RSA should reimburse the £150 costs. 
RSA didnt agree. It said that Mr A was stopped by the police because there was an issue 
with his licence. RSA says its likely this was why the DVLA licence check failed. 
Our investigator felt that if it was important to carry out a licence check to provide indemnity, 
RSA should have done this at the time of adding Mr A to the policy. 
RSA didnt agree. It gave reasons as to why a licence check with the DVLA might fail. It 
doesnt agree it is responsible for the impound costs as Mr A was insured under the policy 
as requested. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has provided a copy of the seizure notice. There are two reasons as to why the police 
seized the vehicle on the notice - that the vehicle has been driven without a: a valid 
certificate of insurance or b: a valid driving licence. The police ticked box a. So this doesnt 
support RSAs view that Mr A was stopped by police because of a problem with his licence. 
Having told Mrs A in the initial call that it wouldnt provide a letter of indemnity and would 
remove Mr A from the policy until it received more information as to why Mr As licence 
check failed, RSA then went on to provide a letter and incorrectly advise that Mr A was still 
covered under the policy. 
Overall I think RSAs handling of the matter was poor. I appreciate that it didnt receive 
further information as to Mr As licence. But the seizure notice doesnt indicate that this was 
the reason for Mr A being stopped  it was due to not having a valid certificate of insurance. 
RSA says that it provides temporary cover without a licence check  but if Mr A had been 
added as a named driver permanently, it would have carried out a licence check before 
providing cover. 
But had RSA carried out a licence check when Mrs A asked to add Mr A to the policy, any 
issues would have come to light before Mr A drove her car. So I think a fair and reasonable 
outcome in this case is for RSA to reimburse Mr or Mrs A for the £150 release fee costs and 
pay interest at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date of payment (4 January 2021) 
to the date of reimbursement. 
Although the distress and inconvenience was significant, Mrs A got her car back on the 
same day as it was seized. For the poor communication from RSA, I think the compensation 
it paid Mrs A of £50 and the gift of flowers was fair and in line with awards we give for similar 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc 
to reimburse for the £150 release fee. It should pay interest at a rate of 8% simple interest a 
year from the date of payment to the date of reimbursement. Mr or Mrs A will need to clarify 
which one paid the release fee as it isnt clear from the receipt provided, so that RSA can 
arrange reimbursement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman