DRN-1479541
The complaint
Mr M complains that a used car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with 1st Stop Car 
Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr M acquired a used car via a 53 month hire purchase agreement with 
1st Stop. The car was approximately 7 years old and had mileage of approximately 84,600. 
Within the first few months Mr M experienced issues with the car. He contacted 1st Stop and 
raised several issues including broken rear wiper, body panel spacing incorrect, air 
conditioning not working properly, broken wiring loom, engine management light on and 
tracking not aligned.
1st Stop advised Mr M that it would contact the supplying dealer. Mr M says he didnt hear 
anything for several months so he contacted 1st Stop again, who arranged for an 
independent inspection.
The car was inspected by ACE in July 2019. The ACE report confirmed faults with the rear 
wiper and found that some of the bodywork had been repainted. It found that the front 
bumper was loose and that there was damage to the front wheel. It also found an air vent 
motor fault.
The Ace report didnt cover all of the issues raised by Mr M so 1st Stop  arranged a further 
inspection of the car with Scotia in August 2019. The report confirmed that there were issues 
with the car but said all of these were due to wear and tear and/or cosmetic except for the 
rear wiper issue which was caused by a wiring fault which wouldve been present at the point 
of supply. 
1st Stop reviewed both reports and offered to meet the costs of repairing the wiring fault. Mr 
M declined the offer. He wants to reject the car as he feels it isnt of satisfactory quality.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the faults were due to general wear 
and tear apart from the wiring. He said 1st Stops offer to meet the costs of repairing the 
wiring was fair.
Mr M didnt agree. He said the reports were biased and that he wanted a specialist to look at 
the car and provide a quote for all the repairs needed to bring it up to standard. He said he 
thought the car had been in an accident before it was sold to him and that it had been 
repaired with sub standard work. Mr M also said that the car shouldve come with a 12 
month MOT and that an approved used vehicle would not have had these issues present. 
He provided a copy of the advert for the car and asked this service to listen to all the calls he 
had made to 1st Stop.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because 1st Stop has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances 
such as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. Id expect 
a used car  such as that supplied to Mr M  to have a degree of wear and tear. So in order 
to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the 
car as opposed to general wear and tear.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr M and 1st Stop. Theres no doubt that Mr M raised a 
number of issues within the first few months.
Under the CRA 2015, where a fault arises in the first 6 months, theres a presumption that 
the fault was present or developing at the point of supply unless the business can show 
otherwise. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt 
successful the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed 
and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply.
Mr M and 1st Stop disagree about whether the car had an inherent fault. In order to reach a 
decision I need to look at all of the available evidence and determine, on the balance of 
probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality.
Ive carefully considered both of the inspection reports. I appreciate that Mr M has 
questioned the independence of the reports. However, I havent seen anything to suggest 
that the reports arent independent or that the engineers arent qualified to carry out the 
inspection.
Based on what Ive seen in the reports, I agree with Mr M that there are several issues with 
the car. These include some of the issues about which Mr M complained shortly after the 
point of supply, including the bodywork and ,loose fittings. Its also clear that there is a fault 
with the wiring.
In relation to Mr Ms concerns that the car has been in an accident, the ACE report 
specifically comments on this and concluded that there was no evidence of collision damage 
or of major repair work.
Looking at the nature of the issues identified in the reports, and taking into consideration the 
age and mileage of the car, Im in agreement with the engineer when he says that the issues 
are largely cosmetic/wear and tear as opposed to inherent faults. Id expect a used car to 
have some issues. The fact that there are issues doesnt mean that the car isnt of 
satisfactory quality. In this case, Im not persuaded that the issues amount to inherent faults 
which would render the car of unsatisfactory quality and warrant a rejection.
In  relation to the wiring fault, Im persuaded that this is likely to have been present at the 
point of supply. Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed one opportunity to 
repair a fault. With this in mind, I think the offer by 1st Stop to meet the costs of repairs to the 
wiring is fair and reasonable.
Ive thought about the other points which Mr M has raised, including those about the MOT 
and the AA inspection. Ive looked at the advert provided by Mr M but I cant see that the car 
was advertised with a 12 month MOT. I agree that one of the adverts says AA approved 
and AA inspected. However, I havent been provided with any evidence  to make me think 
that the inspection wasnt carried out. Taking into account the items which are inspected in an AA inspection, I dont think the issues complained about by Mr M are issues which 
wouldve necessarily been identified at the AA inspection. This is with the exception  of the 
electrical wiring fault, which I wouldve expected to be picked up. But because 1st Stop has 
offered to meet the costs or repairs to this item, I dont think it needs to do anything further.
On balance, I cant say that the issues with the car are unexpected given its age and 
mileage. I think the issues are more likely to be due to wear and tear as opposed to an 
inherent fault. With the exception of the wiring, which the business is allowed one 
opportunity to repair, I think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman