DRN-4166819
The complaint
Mr C complains about Mulsanne Insurance Company Limiteds (Mulsanne) delay in dealing 
with his claim under his car insurance policy.
Mr Cs complaint is being brought by a representative, who Ill refer to as Mrs C.  
Mulsanne are the insurers of Mr Cs policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of an 
agent. As Mulsanne have accepted they are accountable for the actions of the agent, any 
reference to Mulsanne includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
Mr C was involved in a car accident, which he reported to Mulsanne to start the claims 
process. Mulsanne declared Mr Cs car a total loss. Mr C became concerned about 
Mulsannes lack of progress and updates, so Mrs C complained on his behalf. Following this, 
a dispute arose around the valuation of Mr Cs car. Mr C didnt receive a complaint response 
within eight weeks, so Mrs C referred the complaint to our service. During our investigation, 
Mulsanne agreed a settlement with Mr C  and Mrs C agreed the settlement no longer 
formed part of the complaint. Mulsanne then responded to the complaint and accepted there 
had been delays in dealing with the claim and a lack of updates. So, they initially offered 
£300 compensation but, after this was declined, they increased this to £450. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. He agreed Mulsanne had made errors and 
thought Mulsannes offer of £450 was fair. Mr C disagreed so the matter has come to me for 
a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Mulsannes offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand  
Mr C will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr C. My role requires me to say how a complaint 
should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. The key facts about the complaint 
arent in dispute. Mulsanne accept they got things wrong by taking too long to settle the 
claim and not keeping Mr C updated. The only issue I have to decide is whether their offer of 
£450 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I think its right that Mulsanne should compensate Mr C for the upset, frustration and 
inconvenience caused. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of compensation 
should be, Ive looked at the errors by Mulsanne and the impact it has had. I will also add, 
while I can see this has been a very distressing time for Mrs C - having to spend lengthy 
periods of time on the phone and having to chase Mulsanne for updates, our service is only 
able to award compensation for the impact of Mulsannes service on Mr C.  
Mulsanne dont dispute theres been delay in settling the claim. I can see the accident which 
relates to this claim occurred at the end of October 2022, and Mr Cs car is then inspected 
by an engineer a couple of weeks later and declared a total loss. The notes on the 
engineers report suggests a settlement figure of £1,230 was discussed and agreed with    
Mr C. An email was then sent by the engineer to Mr C asking for a copy of some of the 
pages from the V5 document. I cant see much happened after this, and this led Mr C to 
complain at the end of December. Then, at the start of January 2023, Mulsanne email Mr C 
asking for a copy of the V5 and also his bank details. Mr C then asks Mulsanne to provide 
him with a valuation for his car. Around two weeks later, Mulsanne email Mr C and explain 
the valuation is £1,530 and, after deducting the excess of £300, the final figure is £1,230. 
Over the next couple of weeks, theres email exchanges between Mrs C and Mulsanne, with 
Mrs C providing proof of purchase of the car and also examples of similar cars. Over the 
following week, Mulsanne are in contact with their agent to see whether the valuation can be 
increased. Their agent maintains the valuation and, around a week later, Mulsanne email 
Mrs C and explain the offer for the total loss of Mr Cs car cant be increased. They again 
claim the £1,530 valuation was agreed with the engineer during a call so cant now be 
disputed. They say the car has been disposed of based on this valuation. They ask for a 
copy of pages of the V5 so they can progress the claim. 
 
I can see theres a dispute on this point with Mr C claiming no discussion took place around 
settlement. I can see Mulsanne made attempts to obtain the call recording between Mr C 
and the engineer, but this wasnt available. I acknowledge the engineers report notes a 
settlement was agreed during a call with Mr C, but Im not persuaded that was the case. I 
say this because, the email from the engineer which followed the phone call doesnt mention 
the settlement value  and I think its more likely than not, given this would be a very 
important factor in a claim, that it would be mentioned in the email. Its also clear from Mr Cs 
email to Mulsanne at the start of January 2023, where he asks for a valuation, he wasnt 
aware of any settlement being agreed. So, this has caused delay in the early stages of the 
claim and, up until Mulsannes email in mid-January 2023, I cant see any valuation 
proposals were made to Mr C. 
Following Mulsanne maintaining their offer, Mrs C continues to chase for updates but, even 
though theres a valuation dispute, the information shows Mulsanne werent really taking any 
action to resolve the dispute in order to progress the claim. Mulsanne then respond to      
Mrs Cs chasers at the end of March  which is when Mrs C referred the complaint to our 
service. Mrs C then proposes settlement terms for Mulsanne to consider and an agreement 
is then reached around a week later  an email is sent by Mulsanne to Mrs C agreeing to 
pay £1,230. 
Looking at the periods of inactivity, and even discounting the periods where there was a 
valuation dispute, I agree there has been delay by Mulsanne in settling the claim. For 
example, when Mulsanne email Mrs C maintaining their original offer, they find out the 
following day that the call recording between the engineer and Mr C is no longer available. 
Despite knowing the call recording cant now be used to determine what happened, they 
dont appear to have taken any alternative and progressive steps to try and settle the claim  
and dont provide any substantive update until the complaint was referred to our service just 
over six weeks later. 
In addition to this, I can see Mrs C has had to continuously chase Mulsanne for updates. 
While I acknowledge it was Mrs C sending the chasers, this has had an impact on Mr C as 
his claim was taking too long to settle. Also, although it was Mrs C chasing for updates, the 
lack of response from Mulsanne meant Mrs C couldnt pass on any updates to Mr C  and 
this again has had an impact on him. I think its also important to note, Mrs C was making it 
clear to Mulsanne how the delay and lack of updates were affecting Mr C. So, taking this all into account, there has been considerable upset and frustration caused to 
Mr C together with significant inconvenience in not being able to buy another car to use as 
transport. I cant say the whole period of the claim involves delays which are directly 
attributable to Mulsanne because there was a valuation dispute  and it appears the end 
settlement was for this original valuation. But its clear things werent being progressed as 
quickly as they shouldve been and, while this caused upset and frustration, the lack of 
updates and response compounded the impact on Mr C. So, taking into consideration the 
impact on Mr C, I think Mulsannes offer of £450 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.   
I understand Mr C and Mrs C will be disappointed, and I do acknowledge why theyre 
frustrated at the length of time it took for Mulsanne to settle the claim. I wish to reassure 
them Ive read and considered everything theyve sent in, but if I havent mentioned a 
particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its 
just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited have already made an offer to pay £450 
compensation to settle the complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited should pay £450 to Mr C, if 
they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman