DRN-4017893
The complaint
Mr H complained that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (Aegon) has mismanaged his 
pension fund, resulting in a financial loss.
He would like to be compensated for this loss.
What happened
Mr H was automatically enrolled into a pension scheme administered by Aegon in 2017 by 
his employer, with a planned retirement date in June 2021.
The contributions Mr H and his employer made to the pension were invested in the Scottish 
Equitable Universal Lifestyle Collection fund, a type of fund which was designed to be (in its 
words) average risk, and to provide growth in the early years of investment and then 
protection against fluctuating annuity rates in the run-up to retirement. One year from a 
persons selected retirement age, funds are moved to the Aegon Retirement Fund, 75% of 
which is invested in long dated gilts and 25% in cash.
Mr H decided not to take his benefits when he reached the planned retirement date, 
intending to take them alongside his state pension benefits when he reached state 
retirement age.
As Mr H had not taken his benefits, his funds remained in the Aegon Retirement fund.
After receiving a statement that showed that his fund value had experienced a large 
reduction in value, Mr H complained to Aegon on 29 April 2022 about the poor fund 
performance.
Aegon responded on 15 June 2022, explaining that it did not agree and would not be 
upholding Mr Hs complaint. Aegon explained that the reduction in the value of Mr Hs funds 
were the result of market movements and as it was acting as the administrator of the 
pension scheme and had not provided Mr H with any investment advice it was not 
responsible for any loss he had experienced.
Mr H was unhappy with this response and wrote to Aegon on 4 July. He complained that the 
stated objective of the fund he had been invested in was to 
help preserve the size of pension you can buy through an annuity
It did this primarily by holding long dated Gilts (75%) and cash (25%). The fund was also 
described as being of below average risk. Mr H felt that the significant fall in value was an 
indication that the aims of the fund had not been met and that Aegon should have taken 
steps to mitigate against the losses the fund experienced.
Having received no response to this email, Mr H then passed his complaint to this service.
Aegon subsequently replied to Mr H on 14 November 2022, again rejecting his complaint 
and stating that it did not believe that it had made any errors in how it had serviced his 
pension.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence and formed the view that the complaint should not be 
upheld. Mr H disagreed, so this case has been passed to me to review the evidence again 
and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considering the view of our investigator, I have reached the same 
conclusion and will not be upholding Mr Hs complaint.
I can appreciate that this will be disappointing for him, so let me explain how I have reached 
my decision.
Firstly, I think its important to establish that Aegon acted solely as the administrator of Mr 
Hs pension. It is not authorised to provide any investment advice, but to act as directed by 
Mr Hs employer in the first instance and Mr H himself in relation to any investment decisions 
relating to Mr Hs pension.
Automatic enrolment is a legal responsibility of an employer to set up and make 
contributions to a pension scheme on behalf of each employee it has who meet certain age 
and earning related criteria, which Mr H does. As a result of this, Mr Hs employer set up a 
pension scheme to be administered by Aegon, into which Mr H was enrolled. Mr Hs 
employer will have instructed Aegon on the default funds that contributions were to be 
initially invested in, although as made clear in the product literature, Mr H was able to 
instruct Aegon at any time to move his funds to any other funds they offer at his own 
discretion.
The literature provided to Mr H also made clear that owing to his age his benefits would 
initially be invested in the lifestyle fund, before being switched to the retirement fund, where 
they would remain if he did not issue any further instructions to Aegon. So I cant see that 
Aegon has done anything wrong in the way it acted to invest Mr Hs pension benefits.
Turning now to Mr Hs complaint about the way that the lifestyle and retirement funds have 
been managed. It is important to note that these funds are designed for investors who are 
looking to use their pension fund to buy an annuity and take tax-free cash at their specified 
retirement date. To achieve this, the lifestyle fund moves an increasing amount of the 
underlying investments into lower risk products such as Gilts and other cash based 
investments as the investor moves closer to their specified retirement date. If the benefits 
are not taken at this point, and no other instructions received, the funds remain in the lower 
risk retirement fund. In this case, as previously noted the underlying investments in the 
retirement fund were 75% Gilts and 25% cash.
This strategy arises from the inverse relationship between annuity rates and Gilt values  if 
the value of Gilts falls, annuity rates typically rise  although possibly not to exactly the same 
extent. This has the effect of providing a level of protection to the amount of pension income 
that could be achieved from a particular fund value at a time when the investor is close to 
retirement, theoretically insulating them from the effect of major market fluctuations when 
their ability to recover any losses would be low.Consequently, as interest rates rise, the value of Gilts falls, reducing the absolute value of an 
investors pension fund, as has happened in this case. The rapid fall in the value of gilts, and 
Mr Hs fund, has been caused by significant economic and political events. Annuity rates 
have, however, improved.
Mr Hs has complained that Aegon has mismanaged his pension benefits as the value of the 
funds it was invested in fell significantly, in a way that did not reflect the rating of the fund as 
being below average risk. Although I can see how he has arrived at this conclusion, Im 
afraid I cannot agree with him  all investments carry a degree of risk and as already 
discussed, the retirement fund was designed to protect the annuity purchasing power of the 
fund, rather than the absolute value of the fund itself. While disappointing for Mr H, I cannot 
see that Aegon has done anything wrong in this respect.
Mr H has said that it was not his intention to purchase an annuity with his fund, so 
unfortunately he does not believe he has benefitted from the rise in annuity values that has 
accompanied the fall in the value of his benefits. I cannot comment on whether this 
investment approach was suitable for Mr H, but Aegon was acting in the way it had been 
instructed to by Mr Hs employer when it established the pension scheme. Mr H was free to 
switch investment strategy and move his funds at any time, rather than remain within the 
default scheme. 
As a result, I find that Aegon has done nothing wrong in this respect either.
Overall, and disappointing as it will be for Mr H to hear, I do not hold Aegon responsible for 
the loss in value to his pension fund.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
As a result, I will not be asking Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman