DRN-3431153
Complaint
Mr A has complained about loans AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to him. 
He says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
Avant Credit provided Mr A with an initial loan for £5,000.00 in April 2016. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just under £245. Mr A repaid this loan early and in 
August 2018, Mr A was provided with a second loan for £4,180.00. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just over £205. One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr As 
complaint and he thought Avant Credit shouldnt have provided Mr A with either of these 
loans. So he thought that Mr As complaint should be upheld. Avant Credit disagreed so the 
case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr As complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mr A could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Avant Credit has provided suggested that Avant Credit carried out a credit 
check before each of these loans were provided. The results of which showed that Mr A was 
significantly indebted and had a history of payday type lending. Furthermore, while the 
purpose of these loans might have been recorded as debt consolidation there is no 
indication of which debts Mr A was going to consolidate. And its unclear to me how or what 
was going to be consolidated and more crucially how this was going to improve Mr As 
financial position. 
So Im persuaded by what Mr A has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And while its possible his credit file reflected his choices rather than because he 
was struggling, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in 
the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Avant Credit, Ive been 
persuaded to accept Mr As version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr As existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to these loans, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
like than not have shown Avant Credit that it shouldnt have provided these loans to Mr A. As 
Avant Credit provided Mr A with these loans, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act 
fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr A ended up paying interest, fees and charges on loans he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr A lost out because of what Avant Credit did wrong and that it 
should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to putting things right for Mr A
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mr A by:
Refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr A paid on his loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr A to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information it recorded on Mr As credit file as a result of these 
loans. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr As complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman