DRN-3236914
The complaint
Mr P complains that his Glazing, Locks, Roof and Pest (GLPR) insurance policy held with 
British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) wasnt cancelled.
What happened
Mr P held two insurance policies with British Gas  a HomeCare policy and a GLPR policy. 
The HomeCare policy was cancelled in 2016, the GLPR policy continued to run until 2021. 
Mr P complained in 2021 saying he had cancelled the policy a number of years ago. 
British Gas said it had no record of a request to cancel the policy. Mr P was unhappy so 
referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Mr P had continued to claim under the policy after 2016 so 
shouldve know the policy was still active. She noted that British Gas had continued to send 
renewal documents and the premium continued to be taken from Mr Ps account. So, she 
thought Mr P shouldve been aware that the policy was still active.
Mr P didnt accept this. He also said that hed requested a Subject Access Request (SAR) 
from British Gas but it had refused to comply with this.
Our investigator considered this but found that British Gas had requested further information 
from Mr P to complete the SAR, but he hadnt responded.
Mr P asked for his complaint to be reviewed. So, its been passed to me to consider and 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P says that he cancelled his GLPR policy a number of years ago. However British Gas 
has told us he didnt. 
I have to decide based on the evidence I do have. Ive thought about Mr Ps recollections. 
But hes also told us he has memory problems and has no further evidence that he cancelled 
the policy. Ive also reviewed the contact notes provided by British Gas. And these notes 
were made over the lifetime of Mr Ps policy at the time he spoke with British Gas. These 
notes have no record of a cancellation request. 
The notes suggest that Mr P made a number of claims and enquires on this policy. The 
notes also show that whilst Mr P did discuss cancelling the policy in 2017, he then decided 
to keep it due to an ongoing claim. While Mr P may have intended to cancel the policy, I 
dont have enough evidence to say he made British Gas aware of this or told it to cancel the 
policy.
British Gas has also shown us that it sent annual policy statements to Mr P. Whilst hes told 
us he moved some years ago, I cant see that he told British Gas until very recently of this 
address change. And it seems that the address they were sending them to was Mr Ps 
parents home. So, I think he wouldve still had access to the statements. The premiums for 
the policy wouldve also continued to have been paid from his account by direct debit. 
Based on all of the above, I dont think Mr P asked for the policy to be cancelled and I think 
he shouldve been aware t was still active. I know Mr P says he is not great with his money, 
but this isnt something I can tell British Gas it should be responsible for. Because of this, Im 
not going to ask British Gas to refund the policy premiums hes paid. I do note that the policy 
has now been cancelled and Mr P wont have to pay anything further.
Mr P made an SAR to British Gas. Ive seen British Gas responded asking for more 
information. If Mr P wishes to continue with the SAR, he should respond to that request from 
British Gas. If Mr P feels that British Gas isnt complying with GDPR regulations, then he 
should contact the Information Commissioners office. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman