DRN-2431559
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited provided him with incorrect 
information about the Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) that formed part of the pension plan 
he held with the company. 
What happened
Much of Avivas communications with Mr B about his GAR were routed through his financial 
advisor. But for ease, in this decision I will generally refer to all communications as having 
been with, and from, Mr B himself.
Mr B held pension savings with Aviva. As part of that pension plan he benefitted from a 
GAR. That meant that when he retired, Aviva had guaranteed the rate at which his pension 
savings would be converted into an ongoing annuity.
In June 2018 Mr B was approaching his selected retirement age of 60 years. He asked Aviva 
for more information about the GAR that was attached to his pension savings. Aviva wrote to 
Mr B to tell him that the applicable GAR was 11.5%. Given that he was still working Mr B 
decided to not take his retirement benefits at that time.
The following year Mr B asked Aviva to provide him with quotations for the retirement 
benefits he would be able to take. On receipt of these quotations Mr Bs advisor noticed that 
the GAR that had been used appeared to be far lower than the 11.5% rate that Aviva had 
provided the previous year. 
Mr B queried this difference with Aviva. After initially being provided with incorrect 
explanations for the difference, and again repeating the incorrect GAR of 11.5%, Aviva 
ultimately told Mr B that the information hed been given in 2018 was incorrect. He should 
have been told that the GAR was 8.7%. So Aviva explained that the quotations he had been 
sent in 2019 were in fact correct, and constituted the maximum annuity that he could be paid 
under the guaranteed rate. It paid Mr B £300 for the trouble and upset that the incorrect 
information would have caused him.
Mr B didnt think Avivas answer was fair so he brought his complaint to this Service. The 
complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think Mr B had ever 
been entitled to receive the higher annuity rate so he didnt think Aviva needed to increase 
the annuity that it had offered. And he thought that the compensation that Aviva had already 
paid to Mr B for the trouble and upset hed been caused was sufficient. So he didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Aviva has accepted that the information it gave to Mr B in 2018 was incorrect. And although 
Mr B was being assisted by his financial advisor I dont think that it would be reasonable to 
conclude he should have been aware of the error Aviva made. I think it might be helpful here 
if I provide my understanding of how the error occurred.
The rates used to calculate a guaranteed annuity are generally expressed in two ways. They 
can be expressed as a percentage  that means that a consumers annuity can be 
calculated by multiplying the size of their pension savings by the percentage rate that was 
quoted. So for example, if the quoted GAR percentage was 8%, pension savings of £10,000 
could be used to produce an annuity of £800 per annum.
Alternatively GARs can be expressed as a figure  that would mean that a consumer would 
need to use part of their pension savings equivalent to whatever that figure was to benefit 
from £1 of pension annuity income in the future. So, for example, if the quoted GAR was 8, 
then £10,000 of pension savings would produce an annuity of £1,250 per annum.
It is clear from the examples I have provided above that two seemingly similar ways of 
describing a GAR can result in very different annuities being paid. For GARs expressed in  
percentage terms, a higher figure produces a higher annuity income. The opposite is true for 
GARs not expressed as a percentage. It is vital that firms ensure that this relatively complex 
information is explained carefully and clearly to consumers. But here it seems that the staff 
from Aviva who were providing information to Mr B didnt sufficiently understand the GAR 
that was applicable to his pension savings.
Mr B was told that his GAR was 11.5% when in fact he should have been told that the 
applicable GAR was 11.5. That makes a significant difference. A GAR of 11.5 is actually 
equivalent to a GAR of 8.7%. And that is the information that Mr B should have been told in 
2018 when he asked Aviva about the GAR.
But in saying all of that I am satisfied that the quotations issued to Mr B in 2019, and that 
formed the basis of the annuity he is now being paid, are correct. I entirely accept that they 
dont reflect the incorrect information Mr B was given in 2018, but I do think they represent 
the annuity to which he was entitled under the terms of his guaranteed rate. So I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable to expect Aviva to honour the incorrect rate it provided to Mr B.
I think it is right though that I consider whether Mr B reasonably took any irrevocable 
spending decisions as a result of the incorrect information he was given. Mr B has told us that he based his retirement planning on an expectation that his annuity income would be 
larger than what he is now being paid.
The ultimate annuity that Mr B was paid was the product of two different factors. The first, 
quite clearly, was the guaranteed annuity rate that applied to his pension savings. But the 
second factor was the invested value of Mr Bs pension savings. So, whilst Mr Bs retirement 
was deferred it is possible that the value of his pension savings could have fallen and so 
impacted the value of the annuity that was available to him. So Im not persuaded that it was 
reasonable for Mr B to take irrevocable decisions, when he received information about the 
GAR in 2018, that were reliant on the future annuity he would receive whose value would 
only be determined at a later date based on any changes to the value of his pension 
savings.
I have no doubts that the difference between the GAR that Mr B was expecting based on the 
incorrect information Aviva provided, and that which he was actually entitled, would have 
been very distressing for him. But I can see that Aviva has already paid Mr B £300 to reflect 
that trouble and upset. I think that is a fair and reasonable reflection of the compensation 
that is warranted, and in line with what I would have recommended. 
So in summary, I think that Aviva is paying Mr B the annuity to which he is entitled under the 
terms of his guarantee. I dont think the error Aviva made in the information it gave about 
that rate means it should pay a higher annuity to Mr B. And I think that the compensation 
Aviva has paid Mr B for the trouble and upset he has been caused is fair. So I dont think 
Aviva needs to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman