DRN-3887926
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tandem Motor Finance Limited (Tandem), trading as Oplo CF Ltd 
irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In November 2016, Mr M acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Tandem. Mr M was required to make 59 monthly repayments of £324.99 with a final 
payment of £499.79. Mr M also made an advance payment of £100. The total repayable 
under the agreement was £19,674.20. 
I understand the agreement was repaid in November 2021. 
Mr M says that Tandem didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable and was likely to worsen his financial 
situation. Tandem didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment at the time.  
More recently, it has reviewed Mr Ms bank statements and said the loan would have been 
affordable. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Tandem ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt going to be affordable to Mr M.
Tandem doesnt agree. It says Mr M was managing his existing debt well at the time he 
applied for the agreement. Tandem also disagrees with the way our adjudicator calculated 
Mr Ms regular and committed expenditure. 
The case has therefore been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Tandem will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Tandem says the credit check completed showed that Mr M had a good credit record with no 
defaults or adverse marking on his credit file or county court judgments. He had four credit 
cards owing a total of around £9,200.
Ive also seen that Tandem obtained confirmation about Mr Ms pay by way of a payslip. 
Mr Ms payslip showed he was receiving a net monthly income of around £1,650.  But I cant 
see that Mr M was asked about his regular monthly expenditure. The credit check Tandem 
carried out wont have indicated what Mr Ms living costs were each month for things like 
rent, food and utility payments. Without knowing more about Mr Ms regular and committed 
expenditure, Tandem wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the 
agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. 
When looking into Mr Ms complaint, Tandem requested one of Mr Ms bank statements and 
formed the view that his borrowing had been affordable. But I think it would have been 
proportionate for Tandem to have taken steps to verify Mr Ms financial circumstances at the 
time in order to better understand his living costs. I cant be sure exactly what Tandem would 
have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable 
to place significant weight on the information contained in Mr Ms bank statements as to 
what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed four months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. This 
includes the statement Tandem looked at from November 2016. The statements show 
details about Mr Ms spending and committed expenditure at the time. Mr M has confirmed 
to us that he and his wife were sharing some household costs such as rent, household 
shopping and some utility bills and this was handled by his making payments from his bank 
account to her. He was then left to cover other household bills himself, including his existing 
credit cards and loans. He also kept a separate bank account into which he transferred sums 
to cover ad hoc payments each month. I agree with our adjudicator that Mr M was having to 
commit at least £1,500 each month from his income to help cover daily living costs and 
credit owed elsewhere. 
I think all this demonstrates that Mr M didnt have enough disposable income to afford the 
additional £325 hed have to pay each month under the agreement with Tandem. So I think 
there was a real risk that Mr Ms financial situation would worsen significantly by taking on 
the cost of paying for the car. I think appropriate and proportionate checks would have 
revealed this to Tandem. I therefore dont consider it acted fairly by approving the finance. 
Putting things right  what Tandem needs to do
As I dont think Tandem ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr M should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £12,012.00. Anything Mr M has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ms complaint Tandem should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay, if it hasnt already.
Refund any payments Mr M has made in excess of £12,012.00, representing the 
original cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date 
of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tandem to take off tax from this interest. Tandem must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr M asks for one.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Tandem Motor Finance Limited to put things right in the 
manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman