DRN-1617607
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Close Brothers 
Limited (Close Brothers) was misrepresented to him and not of acceptable quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Close Brothers, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let 
me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
was the car of satisfactory quality?
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. The car here 
was around nine years old and had completed about 43,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
Mr S first took the car back to the dealership in September 2018 and, given hed only had 
the car for a few months at that time and had completed relatively few miles in the car, I think 
its reasonable to conclude that the faults he reported then were present when he took 
receipt of the car. The relevant legislation allows a business to attempt to repair faults that 
are present at the point of supply. So, I think the business were fair when completing repairs 
for Mr S.
If faults remain with the car, and those faults were present at the point of supply, the relevant 
legislation does not allow the business to attempt a further repair. Im persuaded that faults 
still exist because the independent inspection completed in December 2019 says they do. It 
says, All the damage including the corrosion to the front panel is aged and needs 
rectification and it goes on to confirm the damage is most likely to have been present prior 
to commencement of the hire.
So, in those circumstances, as Close Brothers have exhausted their opportunity to repair 
faults with the car they should now allow Mr S to reject it.
misrepresentation
If Mr S was not told something, and if that absence of information led him to enter into an 
agreement that he would not otherwise have entered into, Id think the finance agreement 
had been misrepresented.
Im persuaded this car had been in an accident because Mr S has provided text messages 
from the previous owner; a report from a garage confirming the damage thats been 
sustained and because the independent inspector said so.
Its clear Mr S wasnt told about the accident and the business has explained that it wasnt 
something that was on the HPI report. 
But, having considered the photographic evidence in the independent inspectors report I 
think they should have been reasonably aware of that fact. The external paintwork damage 
is said to be obvious and would, I think, have led the dealership to inspect the car further. 
The photographs of the car in a partially stripped condition reveal impact damage that I think 
should have led them to question what the HPI report was telling them.
The business have suggested that the damage should have been clearly visible to Mr S 
when he viewed the car prior to agreeing to the deal. Theyve said that, in those 
circumstances the relevant legislation would not support rejection of the vehicle. 
I dont agree that the extent of the damage would have been clearly noticeable to Mr S. Im 
not aware hes an expert in bodywork and whilst the paintwork damage may have been 
visible I dont think the mismatched seams or misaligned bodywork would have been 
obvious, and the damage to the bottom of the headlight could only have been visible if the 
bumper was removed, as in the photographs. 
If Mr S had been aware the car had sustained previous damage in a collision Im persuaded 
he would not have proceeded with the deal. I say that because its clear that when those 
suspicions were raised he pursued his complaint with more vigour and was prepared to go to 
great lengths to establish if that was the case or not. I dont think he would have been likely 
to do that if collision damage was acceptable to him.
So, even if Im wrong about Mr Ss right to reject the car because it wasnt of satisfactory 
quality, I still think he should be allowed to reject it because it was misrepresented to him.
Putting things right
Close Brothers should take the car back and end the finance agreement.
Mr R has had reasonable use of the car. In December 2019 when the independent 
inspection was completed, the car had travelled an additional 18,625 miles whilst in Mr Ss care. Thats significantly more than average mileage. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Close Brothers to return any finance instalments to him for loss of use.
Ive looked at the finance agreement and there wasnt a deposit to consider refunding but the 
business should ensure that any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ss credit file 
are removed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited to:
end the finance agreement with nothing more to pay,
collect the car at no cost to Mr S,
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ss credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman