DRN-2318504
The complaint
Mr A complains as director of C, a limited company, that U K Insurance Limited trading as 
NIG Insurance (NIG) declined his claim for theft of a car. 
What happened
C, a used car dealer, holds commercial insurance with NIG. This includes cover for theft of 
the cars held on the premises. Cs director, Mr A, has explained that the keys for the cars 
are normally kept in a locked box and removed from the premises overnight. But he was 
using a car that he planned to sell, so had its key on his desk whilst he was on the premises 
but outside. Around Saturday 12 September 2020, he realised he couldnt locate the key  
having last used the car on Friday 11 September 2020. It seems he thought the key had 
been misplaced on his desk. On Monday 14 September 2020, he called a locksmith who 
arranged to come and change the car lock on Wednesday 16 September 2020. But when 
Mr A arrived at the premises that day, he found an external padlock had been broken and 
the car was missing. The car was found a day or so later in burnt out condition and was 
placed in police storage. 
Mr A notified a claim on his policy and NIG appointed a loss assessor to look into it. On 
review, NIG declined the claim. It said Mr A had failed to comply with the following policy 
term:
It is a condition precedent to the liability of the Company that all unattended motor 
vehicles must be securely locked and all windows and similar openings tightly closed 
with the vehicle keys removed therefrom. 
Outside business hours all vehicle keys are to be retained within a locked safe or 
cabinet and its key removed from the premises, or all vehicle keys are to be removed 
from the premises.
Unattended motor vehicles means any vehicles left without the Insured keeping said 
vehicle under observation.
Mr A thinks his claim has been declined unfairly. He complained that he couldnt abide by 
the term as the key had gone missing from his desk during business hours. But our 
investigator was satisfied that NIG had considered the claim fairly. She pointed out that 
additional security measures  such as using a wheel lock  hadnt been taken despite Mr A 
realising that he didnt know where the key was. And he only booked a locksmith a few days 
later. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view. He said there was no evidence the key had been 
taken during a break-in. And that the locksmith he uses wasnt open at the weekend. This 
didnt affect our investigators view. She said the loss assessors report suggested Mr A 
didnt contact a locksmith earlier because he thought the key was lost in the garage. And she 
also thought he likely could have contacted a locksmith earlier for more immediate help. As 
no agreement has been reached, the case has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
As a starting point, Ive considered the terms and conditions of the policy  as both parties 
have agreed to be bound by these. And its clear that Mr A breached the term quoted above. 
Based on the loss assessors report, he believed he was leaving the key unsecured on the 
premises as he thought it had been misplaced on his desk. Ive taken on board Mr As point 
about his ability to abide by the term  i.e. that he couldnt lock the key or take it home if he 
didnt know where it was  and what impact this had on the subsequent car theft. Ultimately, 
what Im considering is whether the term NIG has relied on to reject the claim has been 
applied fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances. 
Its true that the key doesnt appear to have been stolen due to a breach of the terms. It 
seems likely this happened during business hours  whereas the term NIG has relied on 
only places a particular duty on how Mr A keeps the keys outside business hours. But, Ive 
gone on to consider Mr As actions in the circumstances. I note the following from the loss 
assessors report: 
Mr [A] believed that he had left the key to the vehicle on his desk Over the course 
of the following few days Mr [A] did not have occasion to look for the single key to the 
subject vehicle believing that he might have simply misplaced it somewhere on his 
desk.  
This suggests that Mr A knew/believed he was in breach of the terms when he didnt lock the 
key away or take it home on Friday 11 or Saturday 12 September 2020. Yet I cant see that 
he took mitigating action for several days. The relevant term also required him to keep 
unattended cars securely locked. I dont think the car in question can be reasonably 
described as securely locked when it was left as it was, with Mr A unable to locate its key, for 
several days.
Mr A says he couldnt call his locksmith sooner as they werent open at the weekend. But the 
information from the loss assessor suggests he didnt do so as he thought the key was 
misplaced within the premises. Additionally, as our investigator has pointed out, Mr A could 
likely have called another locksmith sooner. And/or he could have taken interim action such 
as clamping the car or using a wheel lock to keep it more secure. This would, at the least, 
have shown that Mr A was doing what he could to abide by the relevant term  given that the 
clear intention of this is to ensure the cars arent left vulnerable to theft. 
Particularly given the gap between when the key went missing and when the theft took place 
 I do think Mr As actions following the loss of the key are likely materially relevant to the 
theft. Although the car theft required force, as the thieves had to break the outside padlock to 
the premises, only this car was stolen. This may not have happened if Mr A had acted 
quicker to mitigate the breach of the terms. He had several days between the loss/theft of 
the key and the theft of the car to remedy this. Given this, I consider reasonable for NIG to 
have applied the relevant term as it did.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A. But in all the circumstances, Im satisfied that NIG have acted 
fairly and reasonably when considering his claim. Im therefore not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman