DRN-2704935
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy Santander UK Plc (Santander), wont reimburse her for the money she 
lost when she fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
Mrs B wanted to send her two teenage daughters on a dance trip abroad. It was arranged 
through the dance school used by Mrs B and her daughters. The dance school used a 
company to organise the trip and I shall refer to them as CYT.
Mrs B, on 16 April 2018, made a faster payment of £300 to CYT through her online banking. 
This amount was for the deposit. Mrs B then made a further nine monthly payments of £134 
with the last payment made on 4 January 2019. In total Mrs B paid £1,506 towards the trip. 
Mrs B says she received flight and accommodation details for the trip. Sadly, two days 
before the trip Mrs B says CYT contacted her to say the trip wasnt going ahead and no 
flights or accommodation had been booked. So Mrs B had paid £1,506 for a trip that wasnt 
going ahead. And Mrs B was unsuccessful in getting a refund from CYT. 
On 14 October 2019, Mrs B contacted Santander to see if it could do anything to help as she 
thought she had been victim of a scam.
Santander logged the fraud claim and contacted the receiving bank (the bank where Mrs B 
had made the payments to) on the same day to see if it could recover all or any of the funds 
for Mrs B. 
Ultimately, Santander said that as Mrs B had authorised the payments, it wasnt responsible 
for the loss. Santander also said in its response to Mrs B that she was provided with a 
warning each time she made a payment.
It also explained that the receiving bank had explained that no funds remained in the 
account so Mrs Bs payments couldnt be recovered. The receiving bank account had also 
been closed a long time before Mrs B had contacted Santander to report the fraud. 
Santander did offer Mrs £100 for the time it had taken to get the confirmation from the 
receiving bank that no funds remained at the time the scam was reported.
Within Santanders letter, it advised Mrs B that she could refer the matter to our service if 
she remained unhappy. Mrs B subsequently brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as they didnt think Santander 
ought to have done more to identify the payments as potentially fraudulent in the 
circumstances. 
They considered the £300 payment Mrs B initially made for the deposit wasnt unusual given 
Mrs Bs account usage and the subsequent payments Mrs B made monthly were low in 
value, so it wasnt reasonable to expect Santander to be concerned about them and that 
Mrs B was at risk of financial harm or was falling victim to a scam.  
They also felt Santander couldnt have reasonably done anymore to try and recover the 
funds from the receiving bank. They were satisfied Santander had contacted the receiving 
bank after Mrs B had informed it that she had become a victim of a scam, but unfortunately 
no funds remained by this time. They thought Santanders offer of £100 for the delay in 
getting that information to Mrs B was fair.
Mrs B disagreed with our investigators assessment and felt while the investigator had said it 
wasnt Santanders fault, it wasnt her fault either and as she had been a long-time customer 
of Santander it should consider offering her a refund as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs B said it 
was a lot of money to lose and her daughters were devastated, and she would still like to try 
and get the money back and take her daughters on a trip. 
Mrs B also had a concern that Santander had said when she made the payments, she was 
given a warning each time  Mrs B considered she hadnt ignored any warning and didnt 
remember ever seeing a warning. 
As Mrs B disagreed with the investigators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, 
its been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
It is the case that Mrs B authorised the payments in dispute  and thats accepted by all 
parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant 
regulations in place here) that means Mrs B is responsible for the payments. That remains 
the case even though Mrs B was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction or payment, even 
though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Santander have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mrs B when she made a payment of £300 to a new payee, and then subsequent 
monthly payments to the same payee, or whether it should have done more than it did.Ive thought about this carefully. From what Ive seen, with the first payment for £300 there 
isnt anything unusual or remarkable about the payment or the amount that ought to have 
alerted Santander to the possibility Mrs B was being scammed. Banks process a high 
volume of transfers and transactions each day. And a bank has to strike a balance as to 
when it should possibly intervene on a payment against not holding up or delaying its 
customers requests. 
In this case, Mrs B had previously made similar payments, so a payment of £300 wasnt out 
of character or unusual. There were also enough funds in her account and the payment 
wasnt clearing or emptying Mrs Bs account, which can often be an indicator of a scam. I 
dont think there were grounds for Santander to be suspicious Mrs B may be a victim of 
fraud. All things considered, I think the fact that Santander didnt flag the payment as 
suspicious was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
With the monthly payments Mrs B made following the deposit  the same logic as above 
applies. The nine monthly payments were for £134 each time. So there were low in value 
and it is reasonable, given the amount, that Santander didnt flag the payments as 
suspicious. 
I have also gone on to look at whether Santander acted promptly and in a timely manner in 
trying to seek to recover the funds once it was notified of the scam. Santander contacted the 
receiving bank after Mrs B had let it know she had been the victim of a scam but 
unfortunately, as a considerable amount of time had passed since the payments were made, 
no funds remained that could be recovered, and the account had been closed. 
I do note that while Santander contacted the receiving bank straight away, and the receiving 
bank didnt respond, more could have been done to chase the information for Mrs B. When 
Santander were proactive in contacting the receiving bank it did get the information it 
needed. But I am glad to see that Santander recognised this and offered £100 for the delay 
and inconvenience. This seems fair and is what I would have awarded, had Santander not 
offered compensation on this aspect. 
Santander has mentioned Mrs B was provided with a warning when she made the 
payments. And it has provided screen shots of the process a customer has to follow when 
setting up a new payee and example of the warning. Mrs B says she cant remember seeing 
any warning and strongly feels she didnt ignore any warning. 
Santanders obligations, when Mrs B made the payments, was to protect its customers from 
fraud by being on the lookout for a transaction that were unusual or out of character and to 
step in to prevent their consumer from being at risk of financial harm. In this case, Mrs Bs 
payments werent remarkable or unusual, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander 
to be concerned about the payments for the reasons I provided earlier. And at that time it 
wasnt required to provide Mrs B with a warning when she made a payment  but it 
implemented this to help prevent customers from being at risk of fraud. So I understand 
Santanders comments that providing a warning at the time was sufficient given the value of 
the payments and that there wasnt anything about the payments that gave it cause for 
concern to intervene and not process the payments Mrs B had authorised.
It is also important to remember that Mrs B, at the time, thought she was paying a legitimate 
company and had no concerns that the payments she was making werent genuine. So while 
I can understand Santander has said there was a warning in place when setting up a new 
payee and when she made payments - I can certainly understand Mrs Bs point of view that 
it wasnt something she even remembers seeing and understand her point that she didnt 
ignore any warnings. In short Mrs B simply made payments for what she thought was a 
genuine purpose.Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs B and I can understand why she wants to do all 
that she can to try and recover the money shes lost. She sent her money in good faith and 
did not receive anything in return for it. But overall, while I appreciate Mrs Bs been the 
unfortunate victim of a scam, I think Santanders decision not to refund her in this instance 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because it followed Mrs Bs 
instructions to make the payments and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done 
this. And unfortunately, as no funds remained, it wasnt able to recover the funds or do 
anything to help Mrs B further. Santanders compensation payment of £100 for the delay 
Mrs B experienced is also fair. I understand this amount has already been credited to 
Mrs Bs account, so I dont direct it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman