DRN-2095033
The complaint
Mr L complains that a car he took under a finance agreement from Black Horse Limited 
didnt meet the specifications hed been promised.  
What happened
Mr L took a used car under a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse. There were 
however problems with it, and so the dealership agreed to source a replacement. Mr L says 
he wanted the replacement to have the same specification as the original car. In particular, 
the original car had extras including a refrigerated central console and digital TV connection. 
The dealership prepared a new finance agreement for the replacement car and cancelled 
the old one. Mr L says he was told that the replacement car was identical to the old one  
apart from the colour. 
When he took the car home, Mr L says that he and his wife noticed that, unlike the original, it 
didnt have either a refrigerated central console or a TV connection. He complained to the 
dealership that he hadnt been provided with an identical replacement as he was told would 
be the case. The dealership offered him two tablets as a resolution, but Mr L was unhappy 
with that and complained to Black Horse. 
Black Horse noted that the car had been supplied without any optional extras and that the 
specification for the original car hadnt included them either. 
Mr L referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. Having 
originally indicated that he was minded to require Black Horse to accept Mr Ls rejection of 
the car, the investigator revised his view and said that Mr L had been treated fairly. Mr L 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no issue here about the first car. Black Horse and the dealership accepted that it 
should be replaced because of the problems Mr L had experienced with it. The complaint is 
about the specifications of the second car and whether Mr L was either promised the extras 
Ive mentioned or led to believe they were fitted. Mr L also says that the replacement car 
wasnt fit for purpose. Ill deal with that argument first. 
Black Horse was obliged to supply a car that was fit for purpose. Goods are fit for purpose if 
they are fit for all the purposes for which goods of that kind are usually supplied. In addition, 
if the consumer makes known any particular purpose for which they intend to use the goods, 
they must be fit for that purpose as well. I dont believe that the lack of a refrigerated centre 
console or TV connection would make a car unfit for the usual purpose for which cars are 
supplied. And I havent seen any indication from Mr L that he wanted to use the car for any 
particular purpose which would require the extras Ive described. Im not persuaded 
therefore that the car wasnt fit for purpose. 
I accept that Mr Ls original car had the optional extras hes described and that he wanted 
the replacement to include them. What I have to consider though is whether it was part of 
the hire purchase agreement that they were included or that Mr L was misled into believing 
they were included. 
There is no contractual documentation saying that the optional extras were included. The 
hire purchase agreement sets out the cars details  make and model, registration details 
and mileage. There is however nothing about any optional extras. In my view, therefore, it 
wasnt a term of the supply contract that they be included. 
I must therefore consider whether Mr L was misled into believing they were included. He 
says he was told that the replacement car was in all respects identical to the original car, 
apart from the colour. That however couldnt have been the case. Both cars were used, so 
the chances of both having had the exact same combination of options would have been 
fairly small. Even the information on the respective finance agreements differed in terms of, 
for example, age and mileage. 
Mr L has provided copies of his exchanges with the dealership, in which he discussed 
possible replacement cars. He appeared to be considering a number of options before 
settling on the car he took. Those discussions included comments about the specification he 
wanted, but I dont believe I can fairly conclude from them that the dealership agreed to 
provide a car with a refrigerated console and TV console or told Mr L that the replacement 
had either or those features.
I think it likely that Mr L was told that he was getting a like for like replacement, but dont 
believe that meant the cars would be identical in every respect. It was most unlikely that they 
could have been, and I dont believe Mr L could reasonably have thought they were. In the 
absence of any specific assurance about the extras on the car, Im not persuaded Mr L was 
led to believe they were fitted.
Finally, I would note that, if particular optional extras had been essential to Mr L, I might 
have expected him to check they were indeed included.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Black Horse Limited to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Ls complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman