DRN-4483354
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the service he says he received from Hastings Insurance 
Services Limited (Hastings). 
What happened
Mr A bought a car insurance policy through an administrator Hastings in January 2021. 
Hastings said he owed a balance when this policy didnt renew in January 2022. 
Hastings provided a letter confirming Mr A had nine years or more No Claims Discount 
(NCD). 
Mr A complained to Hastings. He didnt agree he owed a balance and he was unhappy that 
Hastings hadnt provided a letter confirm the actual number of years he hadnt made a claim. 
In November 2022 Hastings upheld Mr As complaint for failing to provide a letter Mr A had 
requested confirming that he hadnt made a claim for 13 years. It attached this confirmation 
letter to its response to Mr A. 
Hastings didnt uphold Mr As complaint about the balance premium. It said Mr A correctly 
owed this as he had requested Direct Debit premiums paid under the policy back from his 
bank under a chargeback facility. 
Hastings accepted it hadnt logged Mr As complaint at the time and apologised for this. 
On 1 May 2023 Mr A brought this complaint to this service and it has been dealt with 
separately in August 2023. Both parties accepted the Investigators recommendation for 
Hastings to pay Mr A £100 total compensation for its poor service from January 2022 to 
November 2022. I am providing this information by way of background, to avoid any 
confusion  and because the outcome of that complaint was reached after Mr A brought this 
complaint to us. 
After receiving a response on 4 November 2022 to the above complaint, Mr A contacted 
Hastings in November and December 2022. He remained unhappy about the service he 
received. Hed asked for call backs and didnt receive them and was unhappy with the way  
call had been handled.  
In April 2023 Hastings responded to Mr As complaint. My decision is about this complaint. 
Hastings apologised for failing to call Mr A back when promised and agreed it had said it 
would take follow up action which didnt materialise. 
Hasting didnt agree an agent had poorly handled a key call. And it didnt agree that Mr A 
had made a new complaint  as it said the information Mr A was asking for related to the 
complaint it had closed in November 2022. 
As it had been agreed in a call that Hastings would look again at the balance it said Mr A 
owed of £32.94, but hadnt, Hastings agreed to waive this balance. It sent Mr A a cheque for 
£30 as compensation for the poor service it provided in December 2022. 
On 4 May 2023 Mr A asked us to look at this complaint. He said Hastings hadnt fairly 
compensated him for the distress and inconvenience caused by its failure to respond to him 
and its failure to deal with his complaint in a timely way. He said it had taken Hastings a 
further five months to respond to him. He wanted Hastings to pay him £100 compensation.
Our Investigator explained that we cannot look at complaints handling as it isnt a regulated 
activity. He thought that the £30 compensation Hastings had paid was fair, but he said he 
would reconsider if Mr A provided proof of the impact of the delay. 
Mr A didnt agree with the Investigators view but he hasnt provided any new information. So 
the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr A explained a relative had passed away during the time he was dealing 
with Hastings, which Im sorry to read. 
Mr A is unhappy with the length of time Hastings took to respond to his queries in November 
and December 2022. He says Hastings failed to deal with his complaint for five months.
As the Investigator explained, this service can investigate complaints about regulated 
activities. Regulated activities are set out by the Financial Conduct Authority. Complaints 
handling isnt a regulated activity. In any event, Hastings doesnt agree that Mr A raised a 
new complaint following its response dated 4 November 2022, as his calls were about his 
dissatisfaction with the response to his original complaint. 
I can only consider the regulated activities which Hastings addressed within its final 
response letter dated 27 April 2023. I cannot make a finding about the previous complaint 
that Hastings delayed providing a letter confirming the number of years NCD Mr A hadnt 
claimed because  as explained  this has been dealt with under a separate complaint. But it 
does seem to overlap in Mr As communication with this service because he remains 
unhappy with the response from Hastings dated 4 November 2022. So to avoid confusion, I 
have referred to it by way of background  and to show that I am aware of the previous 
complaint. But I am unable to review and make a finding on this for a second time as this 
service has already dealt with the previous complaint. My decision relates to the service 
issues Mr A raised with Hastings after 4 November 2022. 
Our Investigator asked Mr A to provide any evidence to show how he had been impacted by 
Hastings poor service. He wanted to better understand if Advantages £30 compensation 
paid on 27 April 2023 was reasonable and proportionate. 
In response, Mr A reiterated his complaint, but he hasnt provided anything to show that he 
was impacted financially by the delay in Advantages response dated 27 April 2023. So while 
I understand Mr A was unhappy with Hastings, I think its payment of £30 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused for failing to call back when agreed after 4 November 
2022  and its agreement to waive the balance premium Mr A owed - seems fair and 
reasonable  as set out on 27 April 2023 by Hastings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I think Hastings Insurance Services Limiteds compensation 
payment of £30 and decision to waive the balance Mr A owed on 27 April 2023 is reasonable 
 and enough to resolve his complaint. If Hastings hasnt already paid it  or Mr A previously rejected it  Hastings Insurance Services Limited should pay it within 28 days of Mr A 
accepting my final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman