DRN-3689472
The complaint
Ms K complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, lent to her 
irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks on two occasions. She 
would like all the fees and charges associated with the loans refunded.
What happened
In May 2017 Everyday Loans approved a loan of £1,500 for Ms K, which was scheduled to 
be repaid at approximately £145 per month over a term of 24 months. It would seem that at 
least some of the loan was intended to consolidate other debts. In January 2018 Everyday 
Loans approved a loan of £2,500 for Ms K, which was scheduled to be repaid at 
approximately £217 per month over a term of 24 months. This loan was mostly intended to 
consolidate other debts, including settling the May 2017 loans given to Ms K by Everyday 
Loans.
When assessing the applications, Everyday Loans took steps to verify Ms Ks financial 
circumstances and carried out a credit check before approving the lending.
It would appear that there were instances of Ms Ks repayments not being successful, but 
also that she at times overpaid.
When Ms K complained to it, Everyday Loans didnt accept it had done anything wrong. So 
she brought her case to this service. The adjudicator thought that Everyday Loans shouldnt 
have given Ms K either of the loans, but it doesnt accept that and has asked an 
Ombudsman to review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Everyday Loans is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of these lending decisions, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), 
so I wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Ms K would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. 
As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that she could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, Ms K needed to be able to meet her financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay Everyday Loans for the loans to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
Did Everyday Loans carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
Everyday Loans asked Ms K about her income and expenditure; reviewed copies of bank 
statements; and carried out credit checks when considering her loan applications. Im 
satisfied that its checks went far enough.
Did Everyday Loans respond appropriately to the information it had when deciding whether 
to provide these loans?
Based on what it knew about Ms K, I dont think Everyday Loans could reasonably have 
concluded that these loans would be sustainable for her, bearing in mind the regulations in 
force.
The adjudicator thought that the amount of Ms Ks income which was needed for her to 
service her debts was large enough to be a potential sign of financial distress, and that 
Everyday Loans should not therefore have lent to her.
Everyday Loans refuted that, highlighting that all Ms Ks credit accounts were well-run and 
repayments made as required. It also says that she had enough disposable income with 
which to fund these repayments.
In some instances, needing a large proportion of income just to repay debt might not be a 
problem  it may not automatically mean that any further borrowing is unaffordable and 
unsustainable.
However, in this case, I agree with the adjudicator that it was a problem. Ms Ks 
circumstances were basically the same at the time of both loan applications. And those 
circumstances included her having a dependent child, and no guaranteed income. Whilst 
Everyday Loans appears to have factored Ms Ks child into estimated living expenses as 
part of its income and expenditure assessment (I&E), I think that having responsibility for 
a child places potentially significant additional strains on income, particularly over the 24-
month terms of these loans.
I can also see that Ms Ks job was what is called a zero hours contract. So whilst she 
appeared to regularly work and earn at the time, there was not the slightest guarantee that 
would continue, even in the very short term. In tandem with the large proportion of income 
needed to repay debt, that income insecurity is of real concern.
The disposable income to which Everyday Loans refers is indeed shown on the I&E, and 
appears to be based on accurate calculations. But the reality of Ms Ks circumstances, and 
her clear almost continual reliance on an overdraft, undermines it. Most of the time, Ms Ks 
current account was overdrawn by more than the disposable income calculated by 
Everyday Loans. In reality, she didnt have any disposable income, as she was constantly 
in debt, whatever hypothesis was presented by the I&E. The overdraft, whilst not 
particularly large in absolute terms, represented nearly a third of Ms Ks monthly income. 
And she clearly needed to rely on it every month just to exist.
The information Everyday Loans decided to rely on when assessing these applications 
strongly suggested that she would need to borrow elsewhere to manage the repayments. 
As Ive already set out, that is not in line with the regulations in force at the time. The fact 
that Ms K at times made higher repayments than those contractually required does not in 
itself prove that the borrowing was affordable and sustainable under the regulations. It is 
perfectly possible that she borrowed from another creditor to do so.
It therefore follows that the evidence in this case leads me to uphold the complaint on the 
basis that Everyday Loans assessments did not demonstrate that the borrowing was affordable and sustainable for Ms K.
Putting things right
It appears that Ms K has settled these loans. In order to put things right for her, Everyday 
Loans must do the following:
A) Everyday Loans must remove all interest, fees and charges from the loans, and treat any 
repayments made by Ms K as though they had been repayments of the principal on the 
loans. 
B) If this results in Ms K having made overpayments then it must refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the payments were 
made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) Whilst I dont believe there is, should there still be an outstanding balance following the 
actions set out in A, then Everyday Loans should agree a suitable repayment plan with Ms 
K.
D) It must remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ks credit file in relation to these 
loans, once they have been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. It should
give Ms K a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman