DRN-2039638
The complaint
Mr P complains that Phoenix Life Limited hasnt offered a fair remedy to his complaint about 
a mis-sold whole of life policy.   
What happened
In 1996 Phoenix Life sold Mr P a whole of life policy with included critical illness cover. In 
2019 Mr P was made aware by a claims management company (the representatives) that 
the policy couldve been mis-sold. So, they complained to Phoenix Life on Mr Ps behalf.  
Phoenix Life accepted Mr P had been mis-sold the whole of life policy. It said given his 
circumstances at the time, it wouldve been more appropriate for Mr P to have been sold a 
fixed term critical illness only policy over the maximum 35-year term with a sum assured of 
£100,000. 
To put things right, Phoenix Life proposed cancelling the whole of life policy. It compared the 
monthly premiums Mr P was paying for the whole of life policy (£30.31) to what he wouldve 
paid for a fixed term critical illness only policy (£21.95). And said it would refund the 
difference plus 8% simple interest, minus basic rate tax. This totalled £3,959.05. The 
surrender value at the time for the whole of life policy was £5,236.95. So, Phoenix Life said 
Mr P hadnt suffered any financial loss as a result of being sold the whole of life policy. 
Mr P didnt accept Phoenix Lifes response and so his representatives referred his complaint 
to our service. They said it was clear from the point of sale documents that Mr P wanted 
critical illness cover for life, not for 35 years. But because Phoenix Life didnt offer stand 
along critical illness cover on a whole of life basis, Mr Ps representatives said Phoenix Life 
should refund the premiums (less the portion that paid for the cover) - plus interest and 
deduct the surrender value  to allow the whole of life policy to remain in place.  
One of our investigators considered Mr Ps complaint and upheld it. He said if Phoenix Life 
had acted correctly, Mr P wouldve been sold a critical illness only policy in 1996 with a 35-
year term, paying a monthly premium of £21.95. So, he recommended Phoenix Life put that 
policy in place now, for the remaining fixed term of 12 years. And that Mr P should be 
charged £21.95 a month until the end of the 12-year term. 
Phoenix Life didnt accept our investigators recommendation. It said it wasnt possible for 
the policy to remain in place on a critical illness basis only. If Mr P didnt want to accept its 
original offer, then Phoenix Life offered two alternatives:
Mr P could accept its offer and get a replacement critical illness cover elsewhere. If 
he provided information to Phoenix Life about the cost of that policy, it would 
calculate whether Mr P had been financially disadvantaged in any way by the 
difference in rates paid now, and in 1996. And would reimburse Mr P accordingly.
 Or Mr P could reject Phoenix Lifes original offer and allow the whole of life plan to 
continue. In this scenario, Phoenix Life said it would consider a payment to Mr P for 
the trouble and upset caused by the mis-sale. 
 
Our investigator put these options to Mr Ps representatives. They said it was unfair of 
Phoenix Life to deduct the cost of a critical illness policy with a 35-year term, when it was 
unable to demonstrate thats what Mr P wouldve wanted. And that the whole of life policy 
should remain in place. Phoenix Life maintained its remedy was fair, and that keeping the 
policy in place wasnt an option when refunding premiums. 
As neither party could agree, Mr Ps case has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it for similar reason to the Investigator. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. Ive also asked for more information from both 
Phoenix Life and Mr Ps representatives. And Ive asked for their comments on my thoughts 
on the 35-year term used by Phoenix Life to calculate its redress offer. 
In this decision Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention 
any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome. I 
would also like to make it clear that each complaint is decided on its own facts and merits 
and Im not bound by what other ombudsmen might have found in other cases, whether 
similar to this one or not.
Because theres no dispute that the whole of life policy was mis-sold, my review has focused 
on what is a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, to ensure Mr P is put back in the 
position he wouldve been in had the mis-sale not happened. 
35-year term
Both parties accept Mr P wanted critical illness cover only. Theres also no dispute over the 
£100,000 sum assured. But there is disagreement over how long Mr P wanted cover for. 
Phoenix Life say its clear in the Fact Find document that he wanted cover for his working life 
 35 years.  Whereas Mr Ps representatives say the Fact Find shows Mr P selected cover 
for the whole of his life. It says 35 years is only mentioned because that was when cover 
was due to reduce, not stop. The representatives also say that if Mr P had wanted cover for 
35 years, then this wouldve been offered by Phoenix Life at the time, given such cover was 
available. But this didnt happen, demonstrating further that Mr P wanted cover for life.
Ive looked at the Fact Find document. The section referred to by Phoenix Life says client 
wishes to consider critical illness cover  for next 35 years  working life. The 
representatives have referred to the product selection part of the Fact Find where the term of 
the product is listed as WOL (whole of life) with a sum assured of £100,000, reducing to 
£23,020 after 35 years. 
We dont know exactly what was discussed between Mr P and Phoenix Life in 1996. So, I 
must decide, on the balance of probabilities, what is more likely than not to have happened. 
Having done that, I agree with Phoenix Life that the evidence from the Fact Find suggestsMr P wanted a critical illness policy for 35 years. The Fact Find illustrates this was what Mr P 
the client wanted and that its linked to his working life.  I think this added level of detail 
strengthens Phoenix Lifes position here. Furthermore, the cover offered under the whole of 
life policy was set to reduce after 35 years. Again, this indicates to me that Mr P wanted 
cover for 35 years  but because he was sold a whole of life policy, cover didnt stop after 35 
years, it just reduced. 
The part of the Fact Find referred to by the representatives is the product selection part. We 
know Phoenix Life sold a whole of life policy to Mr P in error. So, I dont believe that WOL 
being selected as the term on this part of the Fact Find is compelling evidence that
Mr P wanted a critical illness policy for the whole of his life.  I also dont accept the 
representatives argument that by offering Mr P a whole of life product, this shows he wanted 
a critical illness policy for his whole life. I believe the Fact Find indicates Phoenix Life should 
have sold Mr P critical illness cover for his working life of 35 years, and its accepted he was 
sold a whole of life policy by mistake. Thats the whole basis for this complaint, and so 
doesnt, in my view, prove Mr P wanted a life-long critical illness policy. So, I think Phoenix 
Lifes decision to base its financial redress on Mr P being sold a 35 year critical illness only 
policy is fair. 
Financial redress and replacement cover 
The financial redress Phoenix Life has already offered Mr P has been calculated on the 
basis that he would've been paying for a 35-year critical illness policy from 1996 until July 
2019 (when it issued its final response letter).  Phoenix Life has agreed to recalculate the 
amount based on the whole of life policy being cancelled as of 24 August 2020. The revised 
figure is £4,226.97, including 8% interest and less basic rate tax. 
This puts Mr P back in the financial position he wouldve been in if hed been sold the correct 
policy in 1996. So, I wont be asking Phoenix Life to pay any more. I should however point 
out that the current surrender value for the whole of life policy is £5,202.87. 
But this leaves Mr P with no critical illness cover in place. This seems unfair to me, 
particularly as getting replacement cover now is likely to be difficult.  I put that to
Phoenix Life and Im pleased to say it has now agreed to put replacement fixed term critical 
illness only cover in place for Mr P, providing cover for £100,000 until November 2031 with a 
monthly premium of £21.95. Mr P will be required to sign an application form, but
Phoenix Life has confirmed that he wont need to provide any medical information, and cover 
will be offered on the same terms and conditions as it wouldve been offered in 1996. And I 
think this, and paying the £4,226.97, is a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right Phoenix Life must take the actions detailed below.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Phoenix Life must:
Pay Mr P £4,226.97;
 
cancel the whole of life policy as of 24 August 2020. This would mean the whole of 
life policy cant be surrendered; and  
put replacement critical illness cover in place to run until 2031 on the same terms as 
wouldve been offered to Mr P in 1996. Cover will be for £100,000 with monthly 
premiums of £21.95. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman