DRN-4407773
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his car insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc. He feels it acted without 
compassion when handling his claim made when he suffered a near fatal accident.
What happened
Mr Ms car collided with a tree and a wall. He suffered significant injuries in the crash. In the 
aftermath he had surgeries and was placed in an induced coma, and even once he later 
came around, he could not speak for an extended period. 
AXA dealt with matters in the meantime. However, Mr M reported that AXAs processes 
were terrible, with his wife handling things on his behalf, often having to repeat herself and/or 
explaining that he could not be spoken to. Even when he was able to contact AXA himself, it 
often would refuse to deal with him through the dictation service he was using (on account of 
his injuries). He reported how, at times, AXA didnt seem to know where his car was and its 
settlement was initially paid less a deduction for him keeping the car, when he wasnt. 
Initially AXA said it would pay £250 compensation to Mr M. When Mr M complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, AXA reviewed matters again.  AXA detailed what it seemed 
to feel were some significant failings by it. As well as offering a total of £800 compensation 
(so a further £550), AXA said it would be providing extensive feedback to the individuals 
involved in the poor service as it wanted to ensure lessons are learnt from this situation. 
Regarding the settlement amount, AXA recognised it had made an error, confirming it would 
pay the incorrectly deducted salvage sum to Mr M, plus interest. Mr M remained unhappy.
During our complaint process, Mr M said that, in addition to increased compensation, he 
wanted AXA to provide details of any changes it had implemented to improve service, as 
well as a written apology. 
AXA, in reply, provided a detailed letter, explaining each issue of poor service and why it felt 
this was to do with poor service from staff, rather than a problem with processes. It assured 
feedback was being provided on each issue. AXA also said it can fully appreciate how 
insensitive the handling of the claim must have felt for Mr [and Mrs M][and it is] very sorry 
for the upset this has caused. 
Our Investigator felt AXAs offer to pay the outstanding settlement amount, plus interest was 
fair. She noted its explanatory letter and apology. She felt the sum of £800 was fair and 
reasonable compensation in the circumstances. Mr M said its not possible for him to 
quantify what compensation should be paid  but he feels £800 is too low.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find my view is the same as that expressed by our Investigator. Im 
satisfied AXA failed Mr M on this occasion  that its failures were significant, repeated and 
caused a lot of distress and inconvenience. And I note that AXA accepts that is the case as 
well. In my background above Ive quoted a small part of the explanatory and apology letter 
AXA provided. I can see it wrote that specifically for sharing with Mr M. I think its a genuine 
attempt by AXA to show its understood the gravity of the situation here, that its sorry for 
what happened and that its intent on making improvements by feeding back to staff about 
the errors which occurred. 
AXA cant undo the upset its failures caused, but I recognise this explanation and apology as 
part of a genuine attempt by it to make things right. The other parts of that are the additional 
claim settlement and the payment of compensation.
I note Mr M cant quantify the level of compensation hed like AXA to pay. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service has guidelines for compensation awards. And we cant award 
compensation for those who may represent a policyholder in a claim and complaint. Having 
reviewed what happened here, taking our guidelines for awards into account, I think £800 is 
fair and reasonable. AXA did make its flawed claim settlement payment within around ten 
weeks, but clearly there were a lot of failings in that time, and even afterwards. With AXA not 
noticing the flawed settlement until Mr M drew its attention to it in 2023, and only seeking to 
put it right once Mr M complained to us. I accept that Mr M, once he was well enough to be 
aware of what was happening, would have been very upset and frustrated by the poor claim 
handling, including the effects this was having on Mrs M. He then had to put in extra effort to 
get AXA to revise its settlement payment. An award of £800 recognises considerable 
distress being caused over many weeks or months. I think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances here.
The settlement payment was made net a deduction for Mr M keeping the car. Even though 
he was not. The salvage deduction meant the settlement was £283.66 short. AXA has 
agreed to pay this sum to Mr M, plus interest applied from the date of its original settlement 
in 2022. I think thats reasonable. 
Putting things right
I require AXA to pay Mr M:
£283.66, plus interest* applied from 30 March 2022 until payment is made.
£550 compensation, where my total award is £800 but £250 has already been paid.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require AXA to take off tax from this interest. 
If asked, it must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman