DRN-3097453
The complaint
Mr M complains about the redress he was offered when he rejected a car supplied by 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr M was supplied with a new car and entered into an agreement with 
VWFS.
The car had a fault and after several attempts at repair VWFS agreed that the car could be 
rejected.
VWFS said that Mr M could reject the car and receive a refund of his deposit. It also offered 
Mr M the option of a like for like replacement car.
A like for like car couldnt be found. A dispute arose as to the appropriate redress on 
rejection  Mr M said he wanted all his monthly payments refunded as hed spent two 
months using courtesy cars and hadnt had the new car experience hed wanted. He also 
said he wanted a refund of his GAP insurance and his fuel costs.
VWFS offered to refund one monthly payment (£256.70) as a gesture along with the 
rejection.
Mr M remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that when a car was rejected, the 
business was allowed to make deductions for usage, and that in this case, he thought it was 
fair for VWFS to retain 5 of the 6 monthly payments Mr M had made. The investigator also 
said that although he recognised that Mr M hadnt had the new car experience hed hoped 
for, he had been kept mobile throughout in a courtesy car. The investigator said that Mr M 
could have cancelled the GAP policy and received a pro rata refund, and that for the time the 
insurance was in place, Mr M benefitted from it. He also said that Mr M had been offered one 
months refund, which was fair and reasonable compensation for any fuel costs incurred in 
returning the car to the dealer.
Mr M didnt agree. He said hed been given no choice but to accept the rejection because 
VWFS couldnt find him a like for like car, which is what hed wanted to have. He said hed 
been left out of pocket having made monthly payments for a faulty car.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VWFS has accepted that the car was faulty at the point of supply and that the attempts at 
repair failed. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the appropriate remedy is rejection.
I can see that initially, Mr M chose to be supplied with a like for like car, rather than receiving 
a refund. There was a dispute about what like for like meant, which appears to have been 
resolved, but following this, VWFS said it hadnt been able to find a like for like car and said 
the only available option was rejection.
I appreciate that this isnt what Mr M wanted. But based on what Ive seen, I think it was 
reasonable for VWFS to withdraw the option of a like for like car once it was established that 
a like for like car wasnt available.  Under the relevant legislation, Im satisfied that rejection 
was the correct approach to take in these circumstances.
I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling about this. He says that he wasnt given the option he 
wanted and felt forced to accept the rejection. And he feels that this has left him out of 
pocket.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 sets out the remedies when goods are rejected. In the case 
of a car, any deposit paid should be refunded in full. Monthly payments should also be 
refunded, but these are subject to the right of the business to make a deduction for usage. 
Theres no set formula for calculating usage in these circumstances. Generally, a business 
will make a deduction based on the amount of time a car has been used (or provided), or the 
amount of mileage covered.
In this case, I can see that VWFS has proposed to retain 5 of the 6 monthly payments made 
by Mr M. This is to reflect the fact that Mr M has been kept mobile throughout. I appreciate 
that Mr M wasnt always mobile in his own car  theres a period of around two months in 
total when he wasnt  but its fair to say that being kept mobile in a courtesy car also has a 
cost associated with it. So, I cant say that VWFS has acted unfairly in making these 
deductions for usage.
I understand why Mr M feels so strongly about this. In his analysis, hes paid his monthly 
payments for a car which hes been unable to use for a significant proportion of the time. 
However, theres no automatic right to a courtesy car in these circumstances. If Mr M hadnt 
been provided with a courtesy car, then I wouldnt expect him to have to make monthly 
payments for the time his own car was not available for use. But in this case, Mr M was 
provided with a courtesy car every time his car went back to the garage. That being the 
case, I dont think its unreasonable for VWFS to make a deduction for usage.
Looking at it another way and addressing Mr Ms assertion that he had paid monthly 
payments for a faulty car. If it were the case that Mr M hadnt made payments for that 
particular car, he would have likely been making payments for another car. In either 
scenario, Mr M would be making payments to stay mobile. So I cant see that Mr M has 
suffered any loss here.
That having been said, I do appreciate that driving a courtesy car isnt the same as driving a 
brand-new car that youve chosen. So, I think its reasonable to compensate Mr M for the 
loss of enjoyment he suffered as a result. In addition to this, Mr M has said that he incurred 
costs in returning the car to the dealer several times to have it repaired. Taking this into 
account, Id expect to make an award of around £200 for this type of trouble and upset  so I 
think the offer by VWFS to refund one monthly payment of £256 is fair. 
In relation to the GAP insurance which Mr M says he purchased, Im of the view that hes 
had the benefit of the policy whilst he was in possession of the car. Once he was no longer 
in possession of the car, the policy could have been cancelled for a refund. Its not clear on 
the information provided to me whether Mr M has done this. If he hasnt done so, then there has been a failure by Mr M to mitigate this loss. I dont think would be fair to ask VWFS to 
refund this in the circumstances.
Taking everything into consideration, including the relevant legislation which Ive mentioned 
above, and whilst I appreciate that Mr M hasnt had the new car experience he was hoping 
for, Im satisfied that a rejection and an offer to refund one monthly payment is fair and 
reasonable, so I wont be asking VWFS to do anything further.
   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman