DRN-3518927
The complaint
Mr R and Miss R complain that Santander UK Plc didnt offer them the best interest rate 
product it had available to them on their mortgage. As a result they experienced financial 
difficulty and had to move out of their home.
What happened
In 2016, Mr R and Miss R said that Santander gave them a choice of three mortgage 
products a four- year fixed interest rate of 4.74%, three years 4.49% or two years 3.99%. 
They said they were in receipt of support for mortgage interest (SMI) at 2.61% - so they 
chose the 3.99% product as it left the smallest difference for them to make up.
In 2017, Mr R and Miss R said that Santander told them it could offer them a ten-year 
fixed rate of 2.59% on another property  but that did not go ahead.
Mr R and Miss R consider that Santander should have made them aware of the 2.59% 
product in 2017. They said as a result of taking the more expensive product caused them 
financial difficulty. They said they had to use other benefits to pay the mortgage  but that 
meant they could not use the benefits for what they were intended for. Mr R and Miss R 
said this impacted their quality of life and affected their mental health. They said they were 
left with no choice but to sell their home.
Miss R and Mr R complain that Santander did not offer them a fair interest rate, guaranteed 
by SMI payments. They were forced to move home because of the interest rate they we 
repaying  and that caused them to incur costs along with causing them stress and 
anxiety. They consider Santander should offer them the difference between the interest 
rate they paid and 2.59%, all of the costs they incurred in moving home (including the early 
repayment charge (ERC)) and compensation for the distress and mental anguish this has 
caused to them.
I issued a provisional decision setting out the reasons why I didnt intend to uphold this 
complaint. My provisional findings, which form part of this decision, were:
The 2016 offer states that Santander gave Mr R and Miss R mortgage advice. We have 
very little evidence to show what was discussed at the time. But I dont consider comparing 
the process they went through to receive advice in 2016 with 2017 is a fair comparison.
The reason for that is that in 2016 Mr R and Miss R werent looking to change the amount 
they were borrowing or make any other changes to their mortgage  it was purely a rate 
switch. I wouldnt necessarily expect a lender to carry out an in-depth suitability 
assessment. There are few if any reasons where it could decline such a switch.
In 2017, Mr R and Miss R were looking at moving home and reducing the amount they 
were borrowing. It was reasonable and in line with good practice for Santander to gather 
more information about their needs and circumstances than it did in 2016. It doesnt 
necessarily follow that Santander didnt take reasonable steps to gather the information it 
needed to assess what Mr R and Miss Rs needs were in 2016 ultimately the cheapest 
interest rate available to them with Santander was recommended.
I asked Santander for more information about the interest rate product that was given to 
Mr R and Miss R. It has told me that when it considers what interest rate to offer an 
existing borrower, it looks at a number of factors, including the loan to value, how the 
mortgage has been conducted and information from borrowers credit files. Based on that 
information, Santander places borrowers in bands that decide whether they will be 
offered the best available interest rate product, a different interest rate product or no 
interest rate product.
Santander has provided evidence of the band that Mr R and Miss R were on  and that 
the interest rate product was the best available to borrowers on that band at that time. It 
has also provided evidence that the mortgage had been in arrears at times in the past and 
that could be a reason for the banding. I dont consider this is unreasonable. Many lenders 
decide what interest rates to offer based on an assessment of the risk to it of the mortgage 
not being paid.
Santander has explained that it also offers different rates for borrowers who are moving 
home rather than switching interest rate products. And there are a variety of factors that 
impact the interest rates that lenders can offer borrowers. The Bank of England base rate 
is only one factor in the cost to the bank of raising money to lend. So the fact that the 
interest rate Santander offered in 2017 was 1.4% lower than in 2016 doesnt indicate that 
there has
been a mistake  and there is no evidence of one here.
Overall, I cant see that Santander has treated Mr R and Miss R unfairly or that it has made 
any mistake in the interest rate it offered them.
I agree with the investigator that we shouldnt look at the complaint about the ERC as we 
have already issued a decision on that matter, Under our rules we can dismiss a complaint 
without considering its merits for that reason.
Mr R and Miss R didnt accept my provisional findings. They made a number of points, 
including:
It was unfair that Santander took the arrears into account in its banding exercise  
particularly as Mr R and Miss R had a complaints around that time, which were referred 
to us and upheld.
When SMI was introduced, the government expected lenders to reduce the impact of the 
change by averaging out the interest rates charged to borrowers to reflect that SMI 
payments are guaranteed payments from the government.
The property was sold for considerably more than the mortgage balance around 18 
months later  so the loan to value could not have been a factor.
Their credit files had been affected because they had been forced to pay Santander 
more than then were receiving in SMI. That was the whole point of the complaint. They 
would not have been in that position had Santander softened the impact.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is solely about the interest rate offered by Santander in 2016 and what 
happened after that. I note that we had previously dealt with complaints about the interest 
rate, how Mr R and Miss R were treated when in financial difficulty and the ERC. I wont be 
dealing with any of those matters here.
I appreciate Mr R and Miss Rs point of view. They consider the only reason they 
experienced any financial difficulty was because the interest rate Santander charged them 
on their mortgage was higher than the amount they received in SMI payments. 
But it is reasonable for a lender to take into account how a borrower has handled their 
finances in that past in deciding what interest rate to offer. Generally, lenders will charge a 
higher interest rate to reflect a greater amount of risk to it. So if there is evidence that a 
customer has struggled to manage their finances then it might lead to a higher interest rate 
being charged than that available to borrowers who have made all their payments in full and 
on time. I think it would be difficult for me to put forward an argument that lenders should 
offer every customer the same interest rate, providing it had valid reasons for offering the 
rates it did to specific customers.
It isnt in dispute that Mr R and Miss Rs mortgage had been in arrears. They appear to 
accept that their credit files might show some missed payments. I dont consider that 
Santander acted unfairly in taking those things into account when it offered Mr R and Miss R 
the interest rate product it did in 2016. That was the same interest rate offered to all 
customers on that band at that time. So I dont consider it was unfair.
Of course, Mr R and Miss R consider that the only reason for the arrears and their financial 
difficulties was the interest rate offered by Santander. Ive thought carefully about what they 
have said. I note again that this complaint is solely about the rate offered in 2016  and that 
we have dealt with a complaint about how Santander treated them in 2015. So I havent 
looked about what the cause of any financial problems that Mr R and Miss R experienced 
before 2016 (or any complaint about the ERC as we have issued a decision on that 
separately)  only whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in offering them the 
interest rate it did. 
I was sorry to hear of the situation that Mr R and Miss R found themselves in. I have listened 
to what they have told us about their financial situation. They were in receipt of benefits. 
Theyve told us those benefits were meant to be used for specific things because of their 
circumstance  but they couldnt do that because they had to make up the difference 
between the SMI and the mortgage payment and that affected their quality of life. I know 
they experienced financial difficulty and they consider that is Santanders fault. While the 
interest rate offered by Santander would have contributed to those difficulties, it is unlikely it 
was the sole cause of them. 
Based on the information available to me, I cant see there has been any error by Santander. 
This isnt a case where it didnt offer Mr R and Miss R any new interest rate. There was no 
law, rule or regulation that obliged Santander to offer an interest rate that was the same as 
SMI. And as far as I can see, Santander has treated Mr R and Miss R fairly and in line with 
other borrowers in the same situation. Ultimately, I cant see that Santander has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in offering Mr R and Miss R the rate it did in 2016 based on its 
assessment of their financial position and the band it placed them in. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman