DRN-4443635
The complaint
Mrs and Mr Ds complaint is about a claim Mrs D made on her Aviva Insurance Limited legal 
expenses insurance policy.
Mrs D says Aviva didnt pay all of her legal costs and that this was unfair.
All references to Aviva in this decision include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mrs D had a dispute with her employer. In 2019 she took advice from her own Solicitors 
about it. At the time she contacted Avivas Legal helpline to discuss a possible claim with 
them. The Legal helpline said that Mrs Ds claim would need to have reasonable prospects 
of success in order for Aviva to cover the claim.
Mrs Ds Solicitors then instructed a Barrister to advise on the merits of her claim against her 
employer. The advice received was that the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of 
success. As a result, Mrs D didnt pursue a claim on her Aviva policy.  Instead, she decided 
to pursue the claim herself without their assistance through her own Solicitors.
As the claim progressed, the Barrister Mrs Ds Solicitor instructed changed her view of the 
merits of the claim in light of the evidence presented by the parties. Following this, Mrs Ds 
Solicitors made a claim on her behalf to Aviva for cover for her legal costs from that point 
onwards. Aviva considered the claim and agreed to fund Mrs Ds costs.
In 2021 Mrs D won her claim at Tribunal and was awarded damages. At that point Mrs Ds 
Solicitors asked if Aviva would consider backdating Mrs Ds costs to 2019 when Mrs D first 
approached Avivas Legal helpline. Aviva declined. They said they would only fund Mrs Ds 
costs from the time the claim was actually submitted, and they had agreed to fund them. 
Aviva also said that Mrs D didnt submit a claim in 2019, but even if she had, the claim 
wouldnt have been covered because the advice she received from her Barrister at that time 
was that it didnt have reasonable prospects of success.
Unhappy, Mrs D referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our 
investigator considered it and concluded that Aviva were entitled to decline the costs she 
incurred before they agreed to fund them as these accorded with their policy terms and it 
wasnt fair in this case to require them to fund costs they didnt authorise. Mrs D doesnt 
agree, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mrs Ds complaint. This is why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They say Aviva wont pay for costs and expenses 
which are incurred prior to our written agreement and authorisation. 
In this case, Mrs D didnt make a claim on the policy in 2019 and Aviva didnt provide their 
agreement to pay for her costs, so the terms dont require them to do so now. But even if 
that wasnt the case and Mrs D had made a claim, Aviva still wouldnt have covered her 
costs at that stage. 
Its a requirement of virtually all legal expenses insurance policies that any intended claim 
has a reasonable prospect of succeeding. Mrs Ds policy is no exception. That means her 
claim needed to have over 51% prospects of succeeding in order for Aviva to cover them.
We dont think this is unfair. Litigation can be expensive. A privately paying customer
wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed. We wouldnt expect a legal
expenses insurer to fund claims in these circumstances either. At that time the advice Mrs D 
obtained was that her claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success. If a claim had 
been made on the policy, Aviva would have declined it in reliance on their policy terms. 
It was only when Mrs D received a positive legal opinion from her Barrister that her Solicitors 
made a claim on the policy on her behalf and obtained Avivas written agreement to fund 
their costs. Thats when Aviva became responsible for those costs. It wouldnt be reasonable 
in my view to require them to pay Mrs Ds costs before this time. 
I know that Mrs D doesnt feel the position Aviva have taken is fair in this case. She feels 
that shes been deprived of the cover she was entitled to and given the subsequent positive 
legal assessment by her Barrister and the outcome of her claim, its reasonable to assume 
that had all the evidence been available from the outset, Aviva would have covered her 
claim. That might be right but that doesnt mean its fair for Aviva to fund the claim, for the 
reasons Ive mentioned. That fact that Mrs D chose to pursue the claim further after she was 
given a negative assessment by her Barrister was a matter for her, but thats not the same 
risk wed expect an insurer to take. And whilst this risk ultimately paid off for her, we wouldnt 
apply the benefit of hindsight when considering whether a claim was one that ought to have 
been funded- and we wouldnt usually expect an insurer to pick up costs that it hadnt agreed 
to from the outset.
Mrs D has said this is an exceptional case because she had already notified the claim to 
Aviva in 2019, so the claim isnt for retrospective cover in the usual sense. Shes referred to 
other cases the Financial Ombudsman Service has decided where insurers have been 
directed to pay costs incurred before they agreed to fund them. I understand the points that 
Mrs D is making but I dont agree that the circumstances in this particular case are ones 
where I think it would be reasonable for Aviva to fund her costs before they agreed to pay 
them. And I cant comment on cases weve decided in the past. I can only comment on the 
specific circumstances of Mrs Ds complaint. The approach Ive applied to it is consistent for 
what weve decided in similar circumstances. 
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mrs D, but I hope Ive provided her and Mr D a 
thorough explanation of why I wont be upholding their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Ds complaint against Aviva 
Insurance Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman