DRN-3795355
The complaint
Miss S complains that Santander UK Plc have not provided adequate support for her when 
she has had to deal with her finances. 
What happened
Miss S noticed that a direct debit she was expecting to come out monthly was being taken 
weekly. She telephoned Santander using the number on their website for people with mental 
health issues. She says she found the automated voice recognition aspect of the telephone 
service difficult to deal with due to her issues with maintaining focus, so she was already 
frustrated before she spoke with an advisor. When she did, she says she found the advisor 
unempathetic and rude. 
She asked for the direct debit mandate to be cancelled and wanted the direct debits that 
should not have been taken to be refunded to her. She says the member of staff did refund 
some of the payments, but did not cancel the direct debit as requested, so payments began 
again at a later date. Meaning she had to telephone again to get the direct debit cancelled. 
Miss S also mentioned an incident at the branch where she wanted to discuss her overdraft. 
She says she was offered an appointment in four weeks time, but says it would be difficult 
for her to keep an appointment so far in the future due to her mental health issues. She says 
that the cashier offered to arrange for a manager to call her ahead of the appointment, and 
at that point tried to call over a manager to help with the situation. But this caused Miss S 
anxiety and she left the branch. 
Santander issued a final response letter in relation to the direct debit complaint in which they 
explained that direct debits are controlled by the company claiming the payment. So, Miss S 
would have to contact the merchant directly to find out which payments were genuine and 
which ones needed refunding.  Because of this, they felt they had followed their correct 
process and had not made an error. Miss S did not agree with this and felt Santander had 
not been supportive enough considering her mental health issues. She referred the 
complaint to our service. 
When Santander sent us their business file for the complaint, they included an offer of £100 
which has now been paid to Miss S. This was because they were unable to locate the first 
phone call in which the direct debit mandate was discussed, so they could not be sure if 
Miss S had requested for the mandate to be cancelled. This payment was offered a gesture 
of goodwill. Miss S did not accept this in settlement of her complaint as she did not feel her 
complaint had been fully answered. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and felt that Miss S had likely been given correct 
advice during the phone call about the direct debit. But agreed that it was possible Miss S 
requested for the direct debit indemnity to be cancelled, which was not completed. So felt 
the £100 offered was a fair reflection to apologise for this. They looked into Miss Ss 
comments about the service standards provided by Santander. Our investigator felt that as 
Santander had no prior knowledge of any accessibility needs Miss S had, the options 
provided to her at the time were reasonable. In relation to the branch visit, they noted there 
was no record of this visit on Santanders systems, so they only had Miss S comments to 
consider. Had the branch visit taken place in the manner Miss S described, they felt it was 
reasonable that the member of staff had called over a manager to try and assist with the 
situation, so didnt feel an error had been made at the time. 
Miss S did not agree with the outcome and felt it was unfair. As an informal agreement could 
not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for largely the same reasons. And I think what 
Santander has done so far is enough to remedy the complaint. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Ill firstly focus on the direct debit; Miss S has expressed that this issue has now been 
resolved and was more of a catalyst for the other issues surrounding how she was treated 
by the staff at Santander and their automated systems. So I wont go into too much detail 
here. 
Unfortunately, Santander no longer has a copy of the telephone call from 21 June 2021 
when Miss S contacted them about this issue. I have seen notes made by the call handler at 
the time, as well as Miss Ss comments. From everything Ive seen, I think Santanders 
advice during the telephone call was reasonable. The notes show the advisor explained to 
Miss S that Santander are not the ones taking the money under the direct debit mandate. As 
the agreement is between Miss S and the merchant, she was told she would need to have a 
conversation with them if she feels the payments are being taken incorrectly. And I think the 
advisor acted fairly and reasonably by trying to assist Miss S by explaining this. 
The notes do not say that Miss S requested for the direct debit mandate to be cancelled, but 
Miss S has said she did. In fairness to Miss S, Santander have offered and paid her £100 in 
recognition that this error may have occurred, but they cant be sure because the recording 
is no longer available. I think this is fair in the circumstances and compensates Miss S for 
any potential inconvenience this caused and for any potential issues with the call handler not 
providing good customer service. 
Miss S has also said she feels Santander has lacked support for her considering she is a 
vulnerable customer and feels they havent met her needs. In other words, that they have 
failed in their duty to make reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 2010. Even if  for 
the purpose of this decision  I assumed that Miss S is disabled as defined by the Act, that 
Santander was under a duty to make reasonable adjustments to ensure that she wasnt 
placed at a substantial disadvantage because of her medical conditions and the Equality Act 
2010 is a relevant consideration when deciding this complaint, I dont think Santander has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here.  Miss S has said she found it difficult to maintain focus 
while going through the automated voice options when she called the line dedicated to those 
with mental health issues. She feels there should have been an option to opt out of the 
automated process and go straight to a call handler. 
Santander has said it is not possible to opt-out of the automated part of the telephone call 
where the consumer selects the issues they need help with. But that there are a number of 
other options available to consumers if they dont want to contact Santander that way. They 
can communicate online via the live chat, go into a branch or register for voice identification 
so that less security questions are asked. On balance, I think the options Santander has provided are reasonable and while I can 
appreciate that Miss S has difficulty with the automated telephone process, there are other 
communication options available to her. In addition, Santander did not have previous 
notification that Miss S was a vulnerable consumer with different accessibility needs. So, I 
dont think its reasonable to expect it to do more when she telephoned them on 21 June 
2021.
Miss S has raised an issue she had when she visited a branch to discuss her overdraft. 
Santander has searched its systems but has no record of the branch visit and the member of 
staff involved no longer recalls the details of what happened. So, I only have Miss S version 
of events. 
On balance, keeping in mind that I dont have much evidence to consider here, I think 
Santander has acted reasonably based on what Miss S has said. They offered Miss S an 
appointment and when Miss S said she would struggle to maintain an appointment so far in 
the future, I think Santander acted fairly by offering Miss S a reasonable adjustment in the 
form of a callback from a manager shortly before the meeting. It seems likely it wasnt 
possible for Miss S to be given an earlier appointment, so a call from a manager checking in 
prior to the appointment feels like a fair suggestion from the member of staff. When Miss S 
remained unhappy with how the situation was being dealt with, I think it was then reasonable 
for the member of staff to call over a manager to help. I note Miss S was unhappy with this, 
and that the member of staff spoke with the manager out of sight. But I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the member of staff to brief the manager on what had happened so far 
privately. And overall, I think they handled the situation as I would have expected them to. 
In summary, I think the £100 offered and paid as a gesture of goodwill is fair in the 
circumstances, and I dont require Santander to do anything further to remedy Miss S 
complaint.     
My final decision
I do not uphold tis complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman