DRN-1672099
 
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy with the market value of his car that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc (RSA) offered, when he made a claim under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr V made a claim for the theft of his car. RSA agreed to settle this by paying him 
the market value less his excess. It also deducted 16% off the value because the car had 
previously been declared a total loss. It estimated the value to be £13,800.
Mr V thought this was too low. He didn't think he could find a replacement car of a 
similar age, mileage and condition. But RSA said it had reached its valuation fairly and in line 
with the policy terms and conditions.
Our investigator reviewed the available trade guides to see whether RSA reached this 
offer reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Many of these 
didn't produce results because the car is over 20 years old. Cazana provided a value of 
£16,562.
Our investigator said the settlement RSA offered was unfair, it shouldn't have made 
a deduction based on the fact the car had previously been written off. He said that because 
Mr V had been the owner of the car when it was written off, he didn't buy it at a discounted 
price.
RSA disagreed so the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. In summary, 
it said the price Mr V purchased the car for has no bearing on its current valuation. 
Ultimately cars that have previously been written off are worth less than a car that hasn't 
been. Based on this, it said it had acted fairly in making a deduction from the market value.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 February 2020. I said I didn't think the increased 
valuation suggested by the investigator was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint. I thought it was fair for RSA to deduct the 16% from the market value of Mr Vs 
car because it had previously been written off. 
Mr V responded to my provisional decision. He said: 
He couldn't understand why RSA decided to write his car off when he had an 
accident previously. The decision it made then has affected the valuation of his car at 
this point;
The value of his car has, over time, only increased as it was very rare and extremely 
collectable with a  cult following;
The car was 100% original, only ever had one owner and lower than average 
mileage; and
He cant find a replacement car with the amount RSAs offered and provided an 
example of one similar from a classic car website which he says is closest to his car 
and requests that RSA purchase this for him.RSA said the latest example advertised on a classic car website is only an advert and may 
not actually sell at the price advertised. It therefore had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue I need to decide here is whether RSA has offered a market value of the 
car that is line with the terms and conditions of the policy and whether it's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Vs policy says in the event of the car being stolen, the most that RSA will pay is the 
cars market value at the time of the loss. The policy defines this as the cost of replacing the 
car with another of the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time 
of the theft.
I confirm the role of this service isn't to value cars. But we do check to make sure that 
insurers have acted fairly and reasonably in doing so. Ive considered the one trade guide 
that produced a result for Mr Vs car. Having done so, Im satisfied that the starting point for 
RSAs offer was fair.
The complaint centres around whether RSA has offered a fair market value for Mr Vs car 
and whether it was fair to deduct 16% because it had previously been written off.
Ive considered Mr Vs further comments. I understand Mr Vs car was quite rare and that 
hes struggling to find a replacement thats  similar. However, I have to also consider that its 
not RSA's responsibility to ensure Mr V can find a replacement. The policy terms and 
conditions simply say it has to offer a fair market value. 
Mr V said he was surprised when his car was previously declared a write-off by RSA as only 
the door had been damaged. Hes told us he used the money RSA gave him to repair the 
car and restore it to a pristine condition. I appreciate his comments about what happened 
and what he thought of the value RSA offered at the time. But thats not what Im looking at 
here  only whether I think RSA has acted fairly and reasonably in valuing the cars market 
value at the time of the theft.
Mr Vs said that its difficult for companies like Cazana to value such a rare car and has 
provided a range of adverts to support this. Ive reviewed the available adverts and the most 
recent hes sent to us. These show a large range in prices which is why we generally dont 
find adverts a very persuasive way to value a vehicle. Trade guides are a more accurate 
reflection of vehicle selling prices.  And Im not persuaded  the valuation from the trade 
guide is unfair or unreasonable in this instance. So I think RSA's offer of £13,800 is fair and 
in line with this. 
Adverts tend to be less reliable as they are a starting point as to what a seller believes the 
car is worth. So they tend to vary widely and  as Mr Vs car is rare  it isn't possible to find a 
car in similar condition to Mr Vs to compare it with. They also tend to be a starting point to 
negotiate a lower price.
Overall, having weighed everything up, Im satisfied that RSA reviewed the only available 
trade guide in line with our approach, to establish a market value. For the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision, I think RSA fairly made a deduction because the car had previously 
been written off. Its offer of £13,800 is a fair market value based on the condition of the car.My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has offered to pay Mr V the amount of £13,800 as Ive 
outlined above. I conclude that such an offer is fair in the circumstances. My decision is that 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should pay the outstanding amount within 28 days of 
receiving notice of Mr Vs acceptance of this decision. 
Mr V should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, and 
he probably then wouldn't be able to take legal action over this matter. If, however, he 
rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain intact, itll be purely a matter 
between him and Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc whether the above offer still remains 
open for acceptance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman