DRN-3322068
The complaint
Mrs R complains about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltds decision to decline a claim for 
damage to her roof.
What happened
Mrs R has a home insurance policy underwritten by Accredited Insurance (AI) which covers 
her contents and buildings, amongst other things.
She made a claim after she noticed damp patches on her ceiling after a period of bad 
weather.
AI paid out for repairs to the internal damage, which was covered under the terms of the 
policy Mrs R had taken out. But they declined the claim for repairs to the roof.
Mrs R complained to AI about this. She said theyd given different explanations of their 
reasons for declining the claim. One, that there was no storm on the dates in question. And 
two, that her roof was in a poor state of repair.
AI maintained that the claim outcome had been correct. So, Mrs R brought the complaint to 
us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think AI had done anything wrong.
Mrs R disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She wants AI to pay for 
the repairs shes had carried out on her roof.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here about what Mrs Rs policy covers. It covers damage caused by 
insured events such as storms. It doesnt cover damage resulting from gradual causes, 
including deterioration or wear and tear.
Theres been some discussion between Mrs R and AI about whether there was a storm on 
the dates in question. Wind speeds were recorded at 47 miles per hour at the nearest 
weather station. AI have told Mrs R that theyd define a storm as having windspeeds of at 
least 55 miles per hour.
The nearest weather station is some distance from Mrs Rs home, which is in an exposed 
location. And winds of 47 miles per hour can cause structural damage in some cases. 
Taking all of the circumstances into account, on balance I think it would be unfair for AI to 
decline the claim for the roof repairs on the basis that there wasnt a storm.
However, they are entitled to then ask whether the damage is the type of damage caused by 
a storm. And whether the storm in question was in fact the main cause of that damage.
AI sent an expert to inspect the roof. Their report said the damage hadnt been caused by 
the one-off storm event.
The photographs which accompanied the experts report show very clearly that the roof was 
in a poor state of repair. There were slipped slates, which may have been caused by high 
winds. But there were also cracked slates and broken slates with corners or edges missing. 
That damage is unlikely to have been caused by high winds.
Theres also a large amount of moss on same areas of the roof. And in places it can be seen 
that the moss has grown around and under slates which are lifted or displaced. Which 
suggests those slates have been in their current state for some time  certainly before the 
storm which Mrs R says caused the damage to her roof.
On the basis of that evidence, its not unreasonable for AI to conclude that the damage to 
Mrs Rs roof is gradual deterioration or wear and tear and wasnt caused by the period of 
bad weather immediately prior to the leak which manifested itself inside Mrs Rs home.
Mrs R has said the contractors who fixed her roof said it was in decent condition. And the 
work cost just over £1,000, which suggests only minor repairs were necessary. She also 
says the repaired roof has suffered some very bad weather but without any further leaks.
Im glad to hear that Mrs R hasnt had any further problems, but its not really disputed here 
that the roof was failing when the leaks occurred. The real question for us is whether it failed 
 and leaked  because of damage caused by a storm or damage caused over time through 
gradual deterioration.
And on the basis of the evidence they had, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for AI 
to conclude the damage was gradual and so not covered under the terms of the policy. 
On balance, its very likely the bad weather which preceded the leaks simply served to 
highlight pre-existing issues with the roof and wasnt in fact the dominant cause of those 
issues 
I dont think AI presented two conflicting explanations for their decision to Mrs R. In effect, 
they said: (a) there wasnt a storm; and (b) even if there was, it wasnt the cause of the 
damage, the roof was already in a poor state of repair.
As I say, I would tend to disagree with them on point (a). But point (b) renders that irrelevant. 
And from the evidence to hand, it wasnt unreasonable for AI to conclude that the roof had 
deteriorated and required maintenance before the period of bad weather in question.
Im aware that Mrs R has also raised a complaint about AIs handling of a subject access 
request she made to them under the Data Protection Act. 
That wasnt part of her original complaint to AI that she then brought to us, so under the 
rules which govern our service, I cant look into that as part of this decision. Weve made 
Mrs R aware that she can make a separate complaint about that particular issue if shes 
dissatisfied with AIs response.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman