DRN-1070420
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that she was mis-sold a regular premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
Although Marks & Spencer (M&S) sold the PPI to Mrs H, the insurers, Allianz Insurance Plc 
(Allianz), have accepted responsibility for the sale. So the complaint has been set up against 
them.
What happened
In 1997 Mrs H completed a leaflet to apply for an M&S store card. The PPI was taken at the 
same time in connection with this account. 
The policy cost 65p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. It wouldve paid 15% of 
the monthly outstanding balance if Mrs H was off work sick or lost her job. And it wouldve 
continued to pay while she was off work until the outstanding balance (at the start of the 
claim) had been paid off.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mrs H made it clear 
in her application she wanted the policy and it wouldve provided a useful benefit.
Mrs H disagrees, she says she didnt need the policy. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
The PPI was applied for when Mrs H applied for a store card. Given the length of time since 
the sale took place, Ive mainly relied on what the documents from the time of the sale show 
to help me decide how the PPI was presented to Mrs H and how it came to be applied to her 
account.
Allianz have given us a copy of the original store card application form. I can see in the 
section that deals with PPI Mrs H has ticked to select PPI as well as filling in her name as 
the person to be insured and her date of birth. 
If Mrs H didnt want to take out PPI she couldve left the section clear and not selected to 
take the cover. Because PPI has been selected with a tick in the PPI section and Mrs H has filled in her details, rather than leaving the section clear, I think its likely she knew she had a 
choice about taking out PPI and chose to take it because she wanted the cover.
I dont think the sale was advised because the application appears to have been completed 
without the involvement of a sales representative. And although the application form may 
have the words We strongly recommend, this, I think is different to making a 
recommendation tailored to Mrs Hs circumstances. 
So PPI wasnt recommended to Mrs H by Allianz, it just gave her information about PPI. This 
information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could 
make an informed choice about buying PPI.
The cost of the policy was on the application form but I dont know what other information 
was given to Mrs H at the point of sale. So I cant say whether the information given was 
good enough. That being said if Allianz did give all the information Mrs H needed to make an 
informed choice on taking out the policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy because at 
the time of sale:
 
She was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mrs H says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay and 
had savings she could use to make her repayments. But a successful claim on the 
policy wouldve paid out on top of this and for potentially longer. And the policy 
provided a relatively high percentage of benefit per month for a prolonged period at a 
relatively low cost.
 
So I think the policy provided a useful benefit for Mrs H in her situation and I cant see 
how knowing this information wouldve changed her mind about taking the policy.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs H and she could 
cancel the policy if she no longer wanted it. 
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in what information was given to Mrs H on the 
PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint against
Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.Caroline Davies
Ombudsman