DRN-4188028
The complaint
Mr C complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr C applied for a charge card with AESEL. AESEL approved the application.
Mr C later complained that the lending was irresponsible.
AESEL didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Mr C.
Mr C remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that AESEL had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks and that the lending decision was fair.
Mr C didnt agree. He said his circumstances had changed after he applied for the card, and 
that hed made AESEL aware of this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Cs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, AESEL needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
to ensure that Mr C could sustainably repay what was being lent to him. Theres no set list of 
checks that a lender has to complete. But lenders are required to have regard to things like 
the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly repayment and the 
consumers individual circumstances.
Mr C declared annual income of £95,000 when he applied for the account. He also declared 
unsecured debt of around £25,000.
AESEL carried out a credit check. There was no adverse information on Mr Cs credit file. All 
of his existing credit repayments were up to date and he had no defaults or CCJs.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out by AESEL were reasonable and 
proportionate. There wasnt anything in the information gathered from the checks which 
suggested that Mr C was struggling to repay his debts or that further checks needed to be 
carried out.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair. Theres nothing in the 
information gathered from the checks to suggest that Mr C was unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay the lending or that the lending wasnt affordable for him. 
Taking everything into account Im unable to say that the lending was irresponsible.
I appreciate that Mr C has experienced financial difficulties since taking out the card. And I 
can see that he told AESEL about his change of circumstances. I dont think AESEL could 
have foreseen this at the time of the lending decision. But going forwards, AESEL should try 
and agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman