DRN-4216286
The complaint
Mr H complained that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) incorrectly notified 
him it was cancelling his policy and it didnt respond to his formal complaint within 8 weeks.
What happened
Mr H advised Hastings that his circumstances had changed. His policy was amended, and 
Mr H paid the additional premium required of his insurer for the cover to continue.
Mr H then received a letter indicating his policy would be cancelled  with limited information 
to explain why. Mr H was unhappy, so he raised a complaint  he was further distressed as 
Hastings didnt respond within 8 weeks. Mr H said he was worried he didnt have cover in 
place, and he spent time having to sort it out. Mr H wanted confirmation he was insured and 
wanted Hastings to explain why he was sent the cancellation letter and why it hadnt 
responded to him.
Hastings said the cancellation letter was sent in error. It said it apologised for the 
inconvenience it had caused and the complaint was upheld. It said it hasnt paid 
compensation as it didnt think the letter had caused any negative effects.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. Whilst she appreciated Hastings had 
made a mistake she didnt think the impact was significant, so didnt think it warranted 
compensation. Mr H disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 13 June 2023. I said:
Before I share my decision, I want to clarify Mr H has made two complaints in relation to the 
service he received from Hastings. In my decision, I will only address the issues within this 
specific complaint and will not consider any awards that have been made related to any 
other complaint.
Hastings has acknowledged the cancellation letter it sent was an error, so I have only 
focused on whether I think this act warrants compensation. I think it does, so I intend to 
uphold this complaint. I think sending a letter to cancel a policy is a serious matter. I 
appreciate it was done accidentally, but as this can potentially have significant impacts on an 
individual Id expect Hastings to have the right controls operating in its business to prevent 
this happening. Mr H said he became worried when he received the letter as he was 
concerned he didnt have cover for his home.
I can see Mr H addressed this immediately by sending a letter into Hastings. Unfortunately, 
this wasnt addressed promptly by Hastings, nor was the complaint that he made. I think this 
wouldve added to Mr H distress. So, whilst I appreciate Hastings said his policy wasnt 
cancelled and said there was no detrimental impact on Mr H, I do think it has underestimated 
the distress it has caused, albeit for a relative short period until Mr H realised his policy 
wasnt cancelled. I dont think Mr H suffered any financial detriment from the error.
I intend to award £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the error. I 
think this is fair for the likely distress Mr H felt when he thought he may not have home cover 
and for the poor way in which Hastings responded to Mr Hs concerns.
Responses to my provisional decision
Hastings accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add.
Mr H didnt accept my provisional decision. He provided some clarity on some of the points I 
made. He said Hed spent 15 hours of time on the complaint and so thinks the compensation 
should be £1,900, as it had stopped him from earning during those hours. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service doesnt compensate individuals for lost wages  we consider what went wrong 
and award compensation in line with our compensation framework, so ensuring we treat 
individuals consistently. I think the £50 awarded is fair for the reasons I set out in my 
decision, so I wont be amending my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited to pay Mr H:
£50 compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman