DRN-1774656
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading as Smile, hasnt refunded him for 
disputed transactions debited from his online current account due to the unauthorised 
payments not being notified within 13 months of them taking place. He is also unhappy 
Smile automatically renewed an overdraft facility he didnt request and says there are 
missing monthly statements on the account. Mr B has also complained about the service he 
received from Smile in relation to conflicting information given to him. 
What happened
Mr B contacted Smile to raise the disputed transactions and make a complaint on 7 August 
2019 after he became aware of an overdrawn balance on his online current account when 
he received a letter from the bank regarding a changing overdraft policy on the account. This 
letter detailed charges on Mr Bs account in relation to transactions from March 2018.  
Mr B told us he hadnt used the account and that hed last logged into this account in 
February 2015. He said there should still have been funds available and believes this was 
around £200. Mr B says Smile sent emails to his partners email address but because they 
didnt relate to her she didnt take any notice. Mr B adds that as the email address was for a 
female and no response was received Smile should have written to him at his home 
address. 
Mr Bs also told us Smile automatically renewed an overdraft facility which he didnt request 
and continued to charge overdraft charges on the fraudulent transactions. Mr B said there 
are missing statements on the online account for a two-year period. 
There are eight disputed transactions totalling £274.79, which Ive summarised below:
Online transaction for £24.99 on 23 March 2018
Online transaction for £44.00 on 26 March 2018
Online transaction for £44.99 on 28 March 2018
Online transaction for £24.99 on 17 April 2018
Online transaction for £0.79 on 30 April 2018
Online transaction for £29.06 on 30 April 2018
Online transaction of £24.99 on 25 June 2018
Online transaction for £79.99 on 3 July 2018
Smile, in its final response letter of 21 October 2019 acknowledges Mr B was provided with 
conflicting information around the time limits for receiving a refund of disputed transactions 
during a call on 7 August 2019. In light of this, it paid Mr B compensation to reflect the 
trouble caused. The compensation payment paid to Mr B also included an aspect that 
related to a joint savings account Mr B holds with his partner. 
Following this matter, Mr B asked to close his online current account. In order to do so he 
made a payment of £344.66, which consisted of the disputed transactions and the debit 
interest added. 
Im aware Mr B has also raised unhappiness in relation to a joint online savings account he 
holds with his partner. To be clear, in this decision I will not be commenting on these 
concerns as I can see these have been dealt with under a separate complaint with us. 
Smile maintains any unauthorised transactions must be reported within 13 months of them 
taking place. It said Mr Bs account is an internet bank account and he is required to log 
online to check his statements. It says statements were produced on Mr Bs account and 
email notifications were sent to the nominated email address. Smile adds that its customers 
should be regularly monitoring their account and report unauthorised transactions on a 
timely basis. Because statements were available to Mr B to check the transactions, Smile 
feels he could have reported the fraud earlier. Smile also highlights this decision is in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account and reiterates there has been no bank error. 
Smile has further explained within its final response letter that Mr Bs account automatically 
came with a £500 overdraft and so didnt uphold his point about it automatically renewing an 
overdraft facility he hadnt requested. It also didnt agree there were missing statements. 
Smile says as there were no transactions on the account between May 2014 and June 2017 
only annual statements were produced. The next statement was produced on 26 March 
2018 after the transactions on 23 and 26 March 2018. From this point, monthly statements 
were produced as there was a balance on the account and email notifications were sent.  
Mr B remained unhappy with Smiles response and referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things and considered all the information provided by both 
parties, such as the account statements, contact information, contact notes, what both 
parties have told us happened, along with the account terms and conditions and relevant 
regulations. 
He said Smile didnt have to refund the disputed transactions as they had been raised too 
late. He noted that Smile had sent email notifications to the email address Mr B had provided 
in 2014 and commented that it is also the same email address given to our service.  
He looked carefully at the copy current account statements but couldnt identify any missing 
funds. He thought the debit interest had been applied to the account correctly and that the 
disputed transactions had debited an existing arranged overdraft. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators assessment and raised the following points: 
the account hadnt been used for a long period of time and so the flurry of activity 
should have flagged up for investigation
he never received any statements at all  whether there was activity or not
the card for the account had either got lost or intercepted in the post. Because he 
didnt use the account, he was unaware the card had expired 
if interest is charged monthly on an overdrawn balance, why did the bank not notify 
its customers, with no previous activity on the account, this was the case. 
Our investigators view, having considered Mr Bs further points, remained unchanged. He 
was satisfied there were no missing statements and explained that as there were no 
transactions prior to the disputed transactions in March 2018 only annual statements would 
have been sent by email notification.
He also said while there is limited card information available since the account was closed, 
Smile had provided information that showed the debit card number used to make the 
purchases in 2018 ended the same as the card number Mr B referred to in his message to 
Smile in August 2019, when he referred to this not working. Remaining unhappy Mr B asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the available evidence has led me to the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator previously set out and for broadly the same reasons. I will 
now explain why. 
Disputed transactions 
Mr B has identified transactions he says he didnt authorise. The starting position is that the 
bank should refund unauthorised transactions unless a consumer has failed with intent or 
been grossly negligent.  
The bank is also entitled to not refund under The Payment Service Regulations (PSRs) 
2017, Regulation 74 (1): if a consumer notifies the payment service provider without undue 
delay, and in any event no later than 13 months after the debit date, on becoming aware of 
any unauthorised or incorrectly executed payment transaction.
Smile has raised that Mr B contacted it on 7 August 2019 about the disputed transactions 
which was more than 13 months after the transactions were made. 
I can see the terms and conditions of the account also say:
Unauthorised payments
8.3 You must call us as soon as you notice an unauthorised payment has been made from
your account. (A payment is authorised if you gave someone your payment device or
security details.) Well refund the amount of the unauthorised payment as soon as we
reasonably can and, anyway, before the end of the Business Day after you tell us, unless
any of the following apply:
(a) you tell us more than 13 months after the payment was made;
From the information Ive seen, when considering regulation 74 (1) its clear the payments 
which havent been refunded to Mr B were notified to the bank as disputed, more than 13 
months after their debit date. But I also need to keep in mind the PSR 2017 regulation 74 
(2), which clearly says that regulation 74 (1) wouldnt be relevant if Smile had failed to 
provide enough information about the transactions for him to have been able to identify the 
payments, the real payee or whether the payments were fraudulent. 
I cant, however, say that it would be fair and reasonable for the bank to have needed to do 
any more than it did in this particular case. I say this because, Im persuaded timely 
information was given to Mr B, on his statements - albeit I do note what he has said about 
the email address the statement notifications were sent to. While I have carefully thought 
about what Mr B has said on this, Im in agreement with our investigator. Smile has given us 
information which shows the nominated email address on the account was provided in 2014 
 prior to when Mr B told us he last logged into the account in February 2015. 
The terms and conditions of the account state we'll provide regular statements and you can 
at any time view information we provide about each payment in or out of your account on 
Online Banking and ask us for it at any time through Online Banking or ATMs.Ive seen monthly statements were produced once there was a balance on the account 
following the transactions in March 2018. Im also satisfied emails were sent to the 
nominated email address as Mr B has acknowledged emails were sent to his partner but that 
as these didnt relate to her she didnt take any notice. I dont think it would be fair for me to 
hold Smile responsible for the statements not being viewed after it sent notifications that 
these were available. 
I can appreciate Mr Bs surprise and concern about an unexpected overdrawn balance on 
the account for transactions he says he didnt make and doesnt recognise, given that he 
hadnt used the account for a lengthy period of time. But for the reasons Ive said above, Im 
satisfied the bank has acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr Bs claim for a refund of 
the disputed transactions on the basis they were raised more than 13 months after the debit 
date.
Charges
Smile has given us a copy of the account statements and the terms and conditions for the 
current account. Having reviewed Mr Bs account statements, I can see debit interest was 
added to the balance each month after the disputed transactions started in March 2018.
Looking at the terms and conditions that apply to the current account, it sets out the charges 
that can be applied. With these in mind, Im unable to find Smile has acted unfairly by adding 
the debit interest. This is because the debit interest has been applied in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account and so Im unable to ask Smile to do anything further on this 
point. 
Remaining funds 
Mr B believes there should still have been funds available in the account of around £200. 
Having reviewed the statements for Mr Bs current account I can see it shows there was a nil 
balance on the account before the disputed transactions began in March 2018. Based on 
everything Ive seen and been told, Im satisfied no funds have gone missing. 
Account statements
Smile has explained as there was a nil balance on the account prior to the transactions in 
March 2018, annual statements would have been produced. Having reviewed the current 
account statements, I can see this is correct. I note following the transactions starting in 
March 2018, monthly statements were then produced on the account due to there being a 
balance. As Ive said above, when a statement was produced a notification was sent to Mr B 
to the nominated email address. Due to the current account being an online account, no 
paper statements would have been sent to Mr B. Taking everything into account, Im not 
persuaded there are missing statements on Mr Bs account for the reasons Ive explained. 
Overdraft 
Having looked at the information given to us, Im satisfied Mr Bs online current account 
came with a £500 overdraft facility with no monthly fees. Ive not seen anything that shows 
the overdraft facility available when the account was opened was reduced or removed at a 
later date. So, it follows that Im satisfied the £500 overdraft facility on the account is in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account and, Ive not been given any information that 
shows Smile reactivated the overdraft facility.
   
Conflicting information 
Smile accepts Mr B was given conflicting information around the time limits for raising a 
dispute about fraudulent transactions in the call on 7 August 2019. Smile has paid Mr B £75 
compensation. This was made in recognition of the conflicting information given and in 
relation to another aspect that relates to the joint savings account. The bank accepts Mr B 
was given contradictory information by a team manager. And while I can understand Mr Bs 
personal views on this point and that this must have caused him frustration, I can see the 
correct information was clarified with Mr B quickly  the same day. So, Im satisfied the 
compensation paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, but I hope he understands why I have 
reached the decision I have.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman