DRN-2733130
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy with Sesame Limited because it mis-sold her an insurance policy.  
What happened
Miss F bought an income protection insurance policy through Sesame in July 2018. This was 
an advised sale.
In December 2019, Miss F made a claim on her policy owing to back pain, however, it was 
declined as the insurer discovered shed not shared her previous medical conditions. The 
insurer said had it known the full extent of Miss Fs medical history, it wouldnt have offered 
her a policy. Miss F said that Sesame didnt ask her any medical screening questions and so 
she complained the policy was mis-sold. 
Sesame accepted that it had mis-sold the policy by not asking relevant questions about her 
health and offered £150 compensation. Our investigator agreed a mistake had been made, 
however, she felt the compensation should be increased to £400 as she said this fairly 
reflected the level of distress and inconvenience Sesame had caused. 
Miss F accepted the opinion, but Sesame didnt. It said that Miss F had already had the cost 
of the policy refunded by the insurer and so it didnt agree that shed suffered any financial 
loss. Our investigator explained this was a separate issue and that she considered 
Sesames actions impactful enough to warrant a further increase of compensation. 
She explained the main reason for this was because of the financial hardship this error 
caused Miss F, as well as the loss of expectation of having insurance cover. She also said 
that Miss F, as a lone parent, had to make difficult decisions about whether to return to work 
sooner than she was medically able to, because of the financial hardship caused by mis-
selling the policy.
Sesame still disagreed but provided no additional reasons for me to consider. And so, its 
now for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. My reasons are similar to those already explained 
by our investigator in that Im satisfied Sesame made an error during the sales process. It 
should have asked Miss F medical screening questions and didnt. Miss F had a significant 
medical history, which Im also satisfied would have been difficult to find cover for all her 
conditions. This would have become clear from the outset had the adviser asked the 
relevant questions about her health. 
Sesame accepted it made a mistake and offered £150 compensation. And so, I find it difficult 
to understand its arguments around not paying additional compensation because of its 
perception that Miss F didnt suffer a financial loss. 
Im persuaded by our investigators opinion that Sesame should increase its offer to £400 
because I think this adequately and fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience 
caused by its mistake. Sesame is already aware of the significant personal challenges and 
financial hardship endured by Miss F during the time she was sick from work. And the 
continued impact this has had on her finances. She had to borrow money from friends and 
family to make ends meet and return to work before she felt well enough.
Miss F was put in that situation because of the mis-selling of the policy, which prevented her 
from making other, more suitable arrangements, should she have realised sooner that the 
policy was unsuitable for her. Theres no guarantee that a claim would be accepted, 
however, I think it reasonable for Miss F to have expected some peace of mind in the 
knowledge that she had insurance. But this wasnt the case as the policy she was sold would 
never have paid out under any circumstances because it was unsuitable. 
Sesame had no further representations to make in response to our investigators view and 
so theres effectively nothing more for me to consider, other than to say £400 is a fair 
amount of compensation to put things right.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and Sesame Limited must pay Miss F £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman