DRN-4288922
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that Metro Bank PLC warned them their account could be 
closed after there was a dispute about a payment into their account. They would like an 
apology for this.
What happened
A holds accounts with Metro. In October 2022 the bank received a report that a payment A 
received of £500 was fraudulent. They began a review and asked for further information 
about the nature of the payment.
The same day A provided Metro with details of the payment. Metro reviewed the information 
and decided A had received the funds legitimately. They took no further action on the 
account. But they sent an email to A saying as this was the first time there were any claims, 
theyd be giving a warning and any further claims will result in the account closure.
A complained to Metro, saying they had requested details of the claim against them but not 
received a response. They also were unhappy a warning had been given against them when 
no wrongdoing had been found, and this had damaged their reputation.
Metro responded to say that while the warning wasnt necessarily nice to receive, they have 
to take fraud and scam cases seriously. They said they had outlined the reasons an account 
could be closed, but hadnt stated any of these reasons directly applied to A.
Not satisfied with this answer, A referred their complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened. Metro accepted the wording in the email had been 
incorrect and should not have included a warning. The investigator thought there had been a 
breakdown in communication between the parties, and accepted Metro had used the wrong 
template. They also thought the warning could potentially have damaged As reputation. And 
suggested Metro pay A £100 in compensation to reflect this.
A rejected this as an outcome  saying that they had had conversations with the bank, all of 
whom had declined with withdraw the warning or provide clarity on the banks position. They 
said they were at risk from spurious accusations. They asked for an apology and did not feel 
the cash payment was a suitable resolution. As no agreement could be reached the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of this case arent in dispute between the parties, so Ill mention them only briefly. 
Id also like to assure A I have read and taken on board all their submissions. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned in this decision, its because I dont consider it necessary in 
reaching a fair outcome. 
There was a report of fraud from a third party about a payment made to A, so its right that 
Metro investigated and asked A for further information. Metro reached a reasonable 
conclusion that this wasnt fraud, and there was no further action required on their part.
Reading the email sent to A it does expressly say that it was a warning, and any further 
events would result in the account closure. So, I can understand how this would be alarming, 
as it was accepted they have done nothing wrong. And the further correspondence from 
Metro doesnt say this warning was withdrawn or clarified. Had this been done so, I think the 
issue could have been resolved earlier. 
I accept what Metro are now saying that the wording of the email wasnt correct. They should 
have made it clearer that A had not done anything wrong. That they didnt has caused 
disruption to A, as their director has had to spend time to resolve this matter.
Ive seen nothing to suggest the email caused any specific financial losses to A. But Im 
mindful that there was potential damage to As reputation, as well as the inconvenience of 
trying to resolve a situation with Metro where they have done nothing wrong.
Considering how to resolve this complaint, Ive thought about As request for an apology. But 
its not possible for me to direct the tone or sincerity of an apology from Metro. Instead, I 
think its more appropriate to award compensation.
In this case as the complainant is A itself, I cant award anything for the frustration 
experienced by the director personally. But as mentioned above Im satisfied that Metro have 
caused inconvenience to the running of the business. This wasnt for a long period, and Ive 
not seen anything to suggest a significant ongoing impact. But, on balance Im satisfied that 
an award of compensation is appropriate, and £100 is a fair figure.
My final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC must pay A £100 copmensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman