DRN-3701244
The complaint
Ms T has said that Fangdale Financial Ltd gave her unsuitable and inadequate advice 
relating to her pension arrangements, specifically in relation to a transfer of her existing 
pension arrangements, the fees charged and the tax consequences of making pension 
withdrawals.
What happened
Following the purchase of the client bank of a different business, Fangdale contacted Ms T 
and her husband to arrange an introductory meeting, which then took place in December 
2014. 
A fact find was completed, which recorded that Ms T was 52, in good health, and intended to 
retire at the state pension age of 67. Ms T was married, with no financial dependants, and 
employed with an annual income of around £45,000. 
Ms T was a member of her defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS), and she 
had a linked defined contribution additional voluntary contribution (AVC) plan.
Ms T was recorded as being inexperienced in investment matters and as having a moderate 
attitude towards investment risk. She said that she didnt wish to control her investments and 
that she was content to accept higher charges for the potential of improved performance  
there was a projected income shortfall in retirement of around £1,000 pm in her existing 
pension arrangements - and easier administration.
In a subsequent recommendation report, Fangdale recommended that Ms T establish a 
personal pension policy (PPP) with Scottish Life, with an initial single contribution of £23,500 
and ongoing regular contributions of just over £100 pm.
In support of this recommendation, Fangdale said that Ms T didnt need the facilities or 
flexibility of a self invested personal pension (SIPP), but that a cheaper stakeholder plan 
wouldnt offer enough fund choice.
Although not mentioned in the report, Ms T would also be moving a stakeholder plan held 
with Aviva to a Scottish Life PPP, the justification for which in a separate replacement 
business form was that Ms T would be able to receive advice on the plan and switch funds 
without charge in the future, in addition to there being some additional features with the PPP. 
There would also be no initial charges for switching and no exit penalty was being applied by 
Aviva.
Ms Ts pension funds would be invested in the Balanced Active Lifestyle Strategy (Pension & 
Cash), which meant that her investments would gradually be moved from higher to lower risk 
portfolios as she approached retirement.
The charge for the advice was a 4% initial investment fee and this would be paid in 
instalments from the recommended products (the advice incorporated ISA 
recommendations). A further 1% pa review service fee would be also incurred.
The transfer of the Aviva stakeholder plan to the PPP completed in January 2015.
Following discussions with a third party in June 2019, Ms T was told by a different financial 
adviser that shed been incorrectly claiming tax relief on her pension contributions, and that 
unnecessary changes had been made to her pension arrangements.
Ms T removed Fangdale as her financial advisers the following month and also stopped 
making additional payments to her OPS. She also paid the tax which was due.
Ms T complained to Fangdale in April 2020, saying that that the recommendation report 
hadnt covered the transfer of the Aviva policy, and that thered been no comparison of 
charges or the benefits/disadvantages of transferring.
Further, Ms T said that the recommendation to take flexible benefits from the transferred 
policy meant that the Money Purchase Annual allowance (MPAA) was triggered. The 
implications of this werent explained to her, she said, and as a result shed continued to 
contribute to her OPS and faced a tax charge over several years. The fees charged for the 
work undertaken by Fangdale were excessive and hadnt been properly explained, Ms T 
added.
Fangdale didnt uphold Ms Ts complaint, however, saying in its final response of October 
2020 that it had already offered  in a previous response - the difference in charges for Ms 
Ts (and her husbands) policies and so it considered that it had already addressed the 
matter of the transfer to the new pension policy.
And with regard to the MPAA, it said that Ms T had been affected by the changes in the 
allowance from £10,000 pa to £4,000 pa in April 2017, rather than by any advice it had given 
in March 2016 which related to Ms T beginning to draw on her money purchase pension 
benefits.
In its previous response, Fangdale had also said that, as Ms T was, in March 2016, 
continuing to contribute to a defined benefit scheme, this wouldnt in any case have been 
affected by the MPAA being invoked. The OPS later changed to a money purchase scheme, 
but it said that Ms T hadnt informed Fangdale of this and so it was unable to offer advice on 
her updated circumstances, despite explicitly requesting that she do so in documentation 
sent to her.
Fangdale further said that it wasnt responsible for the fees which Ms T had incurred by 
moving to a new firm of advisers, saying that it was Ms Ts choice to make the move and 
that all fees it had charged had been clearly set out.
However, it said it remained prepared to refund the difference in plan charges it had already 
offered in its previous response, in addition to a refund of the ad hoc charges, despite, it 
said, this being in respect of additional work undertaken on Ms Ts behalf.
Dissatisfied with the response, Ms T referred her complaint to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered the matter. He thought the complaint should be upheld, saying the 
following in summary:
He noted that the suitability report detailed the PPP which would be established to 
receive a contribution from Ms Ts bank account, but that it appeared that Ms Ts 
Aviva stakeholder plan had also been transferred into a PPP. Fangdale had 
confirmed that there were errors in the report in this regard.
But the investigator said that he wouldnt expect there to have been such errors in a suitability report upon which Ms T was relying when considering the advice which 
was given.
Having compared the two plans, and in particular the charges levied by the providers, 
he noted that there was an additional 0.18% pa levied on the replacement Scottish 
Life PPP. And as he couldnt discern any robust justification for the transfer, he 
thought that the transfer hadnt been suitable.
With regard to the MPAA, the investigator noted that, at the time Ms T was planning 
to begin pension withdrawals, the MPAA was £10,000. He also thought that the 
evidence supported the position that Ms T was made aware of the nature of the 
MPAA, what would trigger it, and the contributions limit which would then apply. He 
specifically referred to the welcome letter from Scottish Life dated 4 February 2016.
He further noted that Ms Ts money purchase contributions were comfortably below 
the £10,000 limit and that she hadnt spoken to Fangdale about increasing her 
money purchase contributions. So he didnt think that Fangdale had erred in not 
specifically discussing the MPAA with her.
When the MPAA limit reduced to £4,000 pa, Fangdale informed Ms T of this, but it 
didnt seem to be the case that Ms T had informed Fangdale of the change within her 
OPS from defined benefit to defined contribution, despite the suitability report inviting 
her to inform it of any changes to her circumstances.
As such, the investigator didnt think that Fangdale could be held responsible for any 
tax charges incurred by Ms T due to the MPAA.
Addressing the matter of adviser charges, the investigator said that there was an 
agreement for Fangdale to be paid initial and ongoing commission from the 
recommended product provider rather than directly from Ms T. This information was 
set out in the documents provided to Ms T.
But the investigator couldnt find evidence of information relating to the ad hoc 
charges which would be charged to Ms T having been shared with her, and this had 
amounted to around £770 over four years  or roughly 0.5% pa. The fee agreements 
documents did cover ad hoc services, but this section hadnt been ticked by Ms T.
The investigator therefore concluded that Ms T hadnt been treated fairly in respect of 
these.
In conclusion, the investigator recommended that a loss assessment be conducted 
comparing the notional value of Ms Ts stakeholder plan with the replacement PPP, and if 
there was a loss, Fangdale should either pay this into her PPP, or if this wasnt possible, to 
her directly with a notional deduction for income tax.
He also said that Fangdale should return all of the charges it had levied for ad hoc services, 
in addition to £150 in respect of the distress the matter would have caused her.
Fangdale agreed with the investigators conclusions, but Ms T had some continuing 
concerns, as follows:
She hadnt received the letter dated 4 February 2016 about the MPAA, and even if 
she had, she wouldnt have understood the implications  these should have been 
explained by Fangdale.But even if she had received the letter, Fangdale had triggered the MPAA in 2015. 
However, she hadnt needed tax free cash at the time, and had the implications been 
explained, she could have chosen not to proceed.
If she had suspected that she was doing something which wasnt right, she wouldnt 
have proceeded. That she had unwittingly been claiming a tax benefit to which she 
wasnt entitled had made her feel like a criminal. She hadnt understood the 
implications of the changes within her OPS and she wasnt advised by the scheme 
administrators to consider her other pension arrangements. Fangdale was aware of 
her OPS and shed told it that she was paying as much into it as she could.
Ms T also expressed concerns that Fangdale would be the party undertaking the loss 
calculation.
The investigator responded, saying that he thought that the first pension withdrawal had 
occurred in 2016, but that he could look at this further if Ms T could provide evidence of it 
being in 2015.  
He also said that the letter to which hed previously referred had been sent by the product 
provider and would have been repeated each time Ms T accessed her pension benefits.
He further commented that pensions could be complicated, but that, although Ms T may not 
have understood the implication of the changes to the OPS, he couldnt see that Fangdale 
had been informed of this. Had they been made aware of this, they would have been better 
placed to advise Ms T accordingly. But he also noted that, although Fangdale had 
understood that Ms T was contributing just over £3,000 in the 2013/14 tax year, this would in 
any case have been below the reduced £4,000 threshold implemented in 2017.
Regarding the calculations, the investigator said that it was this services approach to allow 
the business to undertake them, but if Ms T had reason to believe that theyd not been done 
properly, then she would be able to separately investigate whether that was the case, for 
example by employing an actuary.
Ms T, in reply, agreed that pensions could be complicated, and agreed that the first year of 
withdrawals, and so triggering the MPAA, had been 2016. Ms T also acknowledged that she 
would have received letters from the product provider, but that she had thought the 
investigator was referring to something which had been sent by Fangdale.
Ms T also observed that Fangdale had agreed with the investigators recommendations, and 
that this presumably meant that they accepted that inappropriate charges had been applied. 
But she didnt think it fair that she should need to pay to check that it had undertaken any 
loss calculation correctly.
In conclusion, Ms T said that she was in no hurry for the complaint to be resolved, but that 
she hoped that lessons would be learned from her experience and that it would prevent it 
from happening to others.
Both the investigator and Ms T agreed that the matter should be referred to an ombudsman 
for review. And so the complaint was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter on 6 September 2022, in which I said that the 
complaint should be upheld in respect of the transfer of Ms Ts existing pension 
arrangements, but not with regard to the MPAA. The following is an extract from that 
decision.Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I broadly agree with the findings set out by the investigator, and for 
similar reasons. But Im sending this as a provisional decision due to slight differences in the 
proposed redress, including an income tax assumption, and to provide both parties the 
opportunity to respond.
As neither party has challenged the investigators findings with regard to the transfer of Ms 
Ts stakeholder pension, I wont labour that point, but suffice to say that I agree that there 
doesnt appear to have been either a robust rationale at the time (and not in any case 
documented to Ms T) nor one in retrospect, for transferring that pension policy  especially 
given the increase in charges.
And so I agree with the investigators proposal that there be a comparison between the 
notional value of the old policy and the replacement to determine whether Ms T has incurred 
a loss.
I also agree that the ad hoc charges should reasonably be refunded. I acknowledge that they 
will have been levied in respect of work undertaken by Fangdale, but Im persuaded by the 
investigators point that Ms T hadnt agreed to pay these. Again, I note that neither party has 
in any case objected to this.
Turning then to the matter of the MPAA, I can appreciate and understand Ms Ts frustrations 
and concerns at what has happened. Id firstly take the opportunity to reassure Ms T that she 
should in no way feel like she has done anything wrong in terms of claiming the tax benefits 
of her pension plan. My view would be that the available evidence supports the position that 
she did so in good faith, and without knowing the effect that the changes in her OPS had had 
on her ongoing contributions.
But I also need to determine whether Fangdale somehow made a mistake in this regard. 
And having reviewed the available evidence, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably conclude 
that it did. At the time of the pension withdrawals commencing, Ms T was contributing to a 
defined benefit OPS (which would be unaffected by the MPAA), and the known additional 
money purchase contribution was comfortably below the MPAA limit of £10,000 at the time. 
And so, on the basis of the situation at that time, the proposal of Ms T taking withdrawals 
from her pension funds wouldnt have been inappropriate.
Ms T was then unfortunately affected by the dual effect of the OPS becoming a defined 
contribution scheme, and the MPAA limit reducing to £4,000 in 2017. But I do also agree 
with the investigator that, whilst Ms T may not have appreciated the implications of either of 
these, Fangdale had requested that she keep it informed of changes in her circumstances. 
And I think a change in the format of the OPS would reasonably have been something which 
could make a material difference to Ms Ts pension planning  and so would also then 
reasonably have been something which could have been communicated to Fangdale. 
Had this happened, then appropriate steps could have been taken which would have meant 
that Ms T wouldnt have run into difficulty with the MPAA. Again, I should emphasise that I 
would in no way apportion blame to Ms T for not making Fangdale aware  but by the same 
token, in order to uphold that aspect of the complaint, I would need to be able to fairly and 
reasonably apportion responsibility for it to Fangdale. And for the reasons given, I dont think 
that I can. It seems to me that its simply an unfortunate combination of the OPS changing 
and the MPAA reducing in 2017.
So overall, whilst I can see that there were failings here on the part of Fangdale, which it has itself acknowledged, I think these related to the transfer of Ms Ts stakeholder pension and 
the ad hoc charges. As such, Ill set out below how the matter should be put right.
Putting things right
As directed by the investigator, Fangdale Financial Ltd should compare, as at the date of this 
decision, the notional value of Ms Ts Aviva plan, had it remained in place, with that of her 
PPP with Scottish Life. If there is a loss, i.e. the existing plan would have had a higher value, 
Fangdale Financial Ltd should, if possible, pay an amount into the PPP to make up the 
difference, taking into account any available tax relief, existing protections and allowance 
(particularly in this case MPAA) issues.
If its not possible to pay into the PPP, or it would conflict with protections or the annual 
allowance, then any loss should be paid directly to Ms T, but with a notional deduction of 
income tax to reflect that this would have been payable from the PPP. Assuming that Ms T 
would be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement (and if either party disputes this, they should let 
me know in response to this decision), and that she would take full tax free cash, this would 
result in an overall 15% deduction.
As also directed by the investigator, Fangdale Financial Ltd should refund Ms T the ad hoc 
charges, and to these should be applied 8% simple interest pa from the date that they were 
applied up to the date of settlement. 
Fangdale Financial Ltd should also pay Ms T £150 in respect of the distress the matter has 
caused her.
In response, Ms T said that she accepted the decision but that she would like the £150 paid 
to a specific charity.
Fangdale also accepted the decision, but said that it would need access to information about 
Ms Ts plans to perform the necessary calculations. The correspondent at Fangdale also 
sought to manage expectations around the timeliness of future responses due to a planned 
medical procedure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My view on the complaint remains the same as that set out in the provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Fangdale Financial Ltd should undertake the calculation as directed in the provisional 
decision, using the date of this final decision as the calculation date. Ive noted the 
comments relating to the timeliness of future responses from Fangdale. Its usual that this 
type of decision would in any case allow 28 days from the date of notification of the 
complainants acceptance for settlement to be made, so I think this should provide enough 
time to settle the matter.
If it takes longer than 28 days to settle, simple interest at the rate of 8% pa should be applied 
to any loss amount from the date of this decision to the date of settlement. Fangdale 
Financial Ltd may extend that timeframe by the number of days  beyond say a reasonable 
turnaround timeframe of four days  that it might take for Ms T to respond to a request for a 
letter of authority to access information about her pension arrangements.Ive also noted Ms Ts request that the £150 be paid to a charity, but that isnt something I 
can require of Fangdale Financial Ltd in this decision. My decision is that it should pay the 
amount to Ms T, but if the parties wish to agree a separate course of action, then they may 
do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Fangdale Financial Ltd to 
implement the above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman