DRN-1535011
 
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr J complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mrs J and Mr J bought a regular premium MPPI policy in December 1992 at the same time 
as taking out a mortgage. The mortgage and policy ended before April 2008.
Mrs J and Mr J say HSBC mis-sold the MPPI policy. They say they can't see any useful 
benefit regarding the policy. They say this because they say it had a 30-day deferment 
period and so would not have been of benefit.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs and Mr Js complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs J and Mr Js case.
Ive looked at the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold Mrs J and 
Mr Js complaint because of the following reasons:
I first of all looked at whether Mrs J and Mr J were given a choice to have the PPI 
policy. HSBC has been unable to provide much of the sales documentation that was 
used at the time of sale. There is little information available and so I cant be sure 
how the policy was presented by HSBC to Mrs J and Mr J. Ive not been able to see 
most of the original sales documentation (such as an application form or agreement). 
So its been difficult for me to consider whether Mrs J and Mr J were given a choice 
or not as to whether they should have the MPPI policy (or whether it was added 
without their consent).
 
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way HSBC sold these policies around 
this time. And due to the amount of years that have passed since the sale, I have not 
been able to obtain a detailed recollection of the sale either. This though is 
understandable as many years have passed since the meeting took place. So with 
this in mind, I cannot fairly conclude on this occasion that Mrs J and Mr J wasnt 
given a choice. I just havent seen enough to make that conclusion. 
 Moving on, I think its more likely HSBC recommended the MPPI to Mrs J and Mr J 
and so it had to ensure during the sale that the policy was suitable for their needs. 
 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mrs J and Mr J based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. Mrs J and Mr J say they needed to rely on statutory sick pay if either of them 
were off sick. So I think the benefit would have been of use to them during a difficult 
time. I think, on balance, they had a need for this cover for any extended period of 
unemployment or sickness. Mrs J and Mr J say the policy was not suitable because 
of a 30-day deferment period, but i think for the reasons given, they would have 
needed the benefit provided and I don't think the waiting period is long enough, in 
their circumstances, that I think would make the policy unsuitable for them. I also 
couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting term that would make 
the policy unsuitable for them either.
 
HSBC has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy that 
Mrs J and Mr J took out but even though it has provided information detailing the 
cover and how much it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed to 
them in a clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were disclosed 
clearly I dont think Mrs J and Mr J would have done anything different and decided 
against having the policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being 
suitable.
 
Its possible HSBC didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs J and Mr J wouldve been affected by any of these.
 
Finally, Mrs J and Mr J's representative has cited another decision and has referred to it as a 
reason why this complaint should also be upheld. Our service looks at each complaint on its 
own merits, and so I have drawn my conclusions based on the information provided by the 
parties in this complaint. Having done so, in conclusion, I do not uphold Mrs J and Mr J's 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs J and Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman