DRN-3225033
Complaint
Mr D has complained about an overdraft National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
provided to him. He says the overdraft shouldnt have been provided because it was 
unaffordable and caused a spiral of charges.
  
Background and my provisional decision of 9 December 2021
NatWest gave Mr D an overdraft limit of £3,600.00 in December 2017. Between the space of 
three days the limit was increased twice until it reached £5,500.00. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr D and NatWest had told us. And she thought 
NatWest hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly in relation to providing the 
overdraft. So she didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint be upheld. Mr D disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
On 9 December 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr Ds 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings.
 
I started by explaining that NatWest needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this meant was NatWest needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able 
to understand whether Mr D could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out 
what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
NatWest said it agreed to Mr Ds initial overdraft application and his limit increases after it 
obtained information on his income and expenditure and carried out a credit search. On the 
other hand, Mr D said he had defaults and so shouldnt have been lent to.
 
I noted that NatWest did ask Mr D about his income and expenditure before providing the 
overdraft and limit increases. And the information provided did suggest that what was being 
advanced was affordable. However, I was mindful that Mr D made three applications within a 
short period of time. And in these circumstances, I thought that NatWest should have taken 
a closer look at his circumstances before agreeing to the increases.
That said, having looked through Mr Ds statements, in the lead up to the overdraft being 
provided, I didnt think that there was anything concerning in this period of time. In particular, 
there wasnt anything in Mr Ds account transactions prior to the applications which 
contradicted what Mr D had declared during his applications.
 
Mr D referred to his previous defaults. I didnt know what NatWest saw about Mr Ds 
circumstances in the credit checks it carried out. However, I could see that Mr D did have 
two accounts which had defaulted over a year before. Bearing in mind the time that had 
passed since these accounts had defaulted, I didnt think that this, in itself, meant that 
NatWest shouldnt have lent to Mr D bearing in mind there was other information suggesting 
it was reasonably entitled to conclude Mr D could repay what he was being lent within a 
reasonable period of time.
   
So overall while I had doubts as to whether NatWests checks did go far enough, bearing in 
mind what Mr Ds statements in the period leading up to the increases showed, I didnt think 
that NatWest had treated Mr D unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his 
overdraft. And I set out that I wasnt intending to uphold this part of Mr Ds complaint. 
That said, I did think that NatWest acted unfairly when it continued adding interest and 
associated fees and charges to Mr Ds overdraft from December 2018 onwards. By this 
point, it was evident Mr D had been hardcore borrowing for a year. A cursory look at his 
statements, during this period, showed that Mr D went heavily overdrawn almost 
immediately after being granted the overdraft and that he never saw a credit balance at any 
stage. 
It was also clear that Mr Ds account conduct demonstrated that he was never going to clear 
a balance more than twice his monthly income within a reasonable period of time. So I 
thought that, at this point, NatWest ought to have stopped providing the overdraft on the 
same terms and should have instead treated Mr D with forbearance, even if this meant 
taking corrective action in relation to the facility, rather than adding even more interest, fees 
and charges on the overdraft.
All of this meant that by December 2018, NatWest should have realised that Mr D was 
experiencing financial difficulty, wasnt using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have 
continued offering it on the same terms. As NatWest didnt react to Mr Ds overdraft usage 
and instead continued charging in the same way, I set out that I intended to issue a final 
decision which found NatWest failed to act fairly and reasonably.
 
Mr D ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft at a time when 
he was already experiencing difficulty. So I intended to issue a final decision which said that 
Mr D lost out because of what NatWest did wrong and that it needed put things right.
I finally set out a method of putting things right for Mr D, which I found addressed NatWests 
failings and Mr Ds resulting loss.
Mr Ds response to my provisional decision
Mr D confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and his acceptance of this. He also 
confirmed that hed taken out a loan to repay his overdraft, close his account and move to 
another bank.
NatWests response to my provisional decision
NatWest also confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and that it disagreed with it. It said 
that while Mr Ds facility was large, he had a large income coming into the account. He also 
brought the account into credit in March 2020 and cleared the facility and closed the account 
in November 2021 which shows he able to afford the facility and chose to use it in the way 
he did.
My findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their responses. I can confirm that Ive read and considered everything 
theyve said and provided. 
I want to start by saying that NatWests response has referred to Mr Ds income as being up 
to £3,100.00 and it has referred to other deposits of up to over £5,000.00 going into the 
account. But its fair to say that deposits of nowhere near these amounts were going into the 
account on most occasions. Indeed, if this much was going in on a regular basis Mr D 
wouldnt have remained overdrawn for as long as he did.
Ive also seen what NatWest has said about the credits in March 2020 and November 2021. 
However, this is sometime after the period I thought that it ought fairly and reasonably to 
intervene. In any event, the funds referred to were borrowed and NatWest will know, or it 
ought to know, a borrower should be able to repay what they owe without having to borrow 
further to do so. 
So I dont think the fact that Mr D borrowed from elsewhere to repay his overdraft was an 
indication that he could afford to repay his overdraft or that NatWest acted fairly and 
reasonably here.
Overall and having considered the further responses to my provisional decision, Ive not 
been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still partially upholding Mr Ds complaint and 
NatWest needs to put things right.   
  
Fair compensation  what NatWest needs to do to put things right for Mr D
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ds complaint for NatWest to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ds current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from December 2018 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made NatWest should contact Mr D to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If NatWest considers it appropriate to record negative information on     
Mr Ds credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started 
the process of taking corrective action on the account from December 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
NatWest should remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 9 December 2021, 
Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should put things right in the 
way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman