DRN-1807413
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N say that they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by Santander UK Plc (Santander). 
What happened
In 1998 Mr and Mrs N applied for a mortgage. At the same time they took out a PPI policy in 
Mrs Ns sole name to protect their repayments if Mrs N lost her job or was unable to work 
due to accident or sickness. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld as he thought there wasnt 
anything to suggest the policy wasnt presented as optional and thought it provided a 
suitable benefit. 
Mr and Mrs N disagree. They say they were led to believe they had to take PPI to secure the 
mortgage and didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
The policy was sold during a meeting. Santander had to make it clear the PPI was optional 
and not a condition of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs N say this wasnt done but havent given us 
much detail about what was said at the meeting to make them think this. But I think thats 
understandable as the PPI was sold a while ago. So Ive relied more on what the documents 
from the time show and what I think is most likely to have happened.
From what I understand the PPI policy was a standalone policy with its own direct debit 
payments entirely separate from the mortgage. In order to have PPI a separate application 
form would need to have been completed. So I think its likely Mr and Mrs N wouldve 
understood that PPI was separate from the mortgage and not a condition of the lending. 
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application signed by Mr and Mrs N and can see in the 
property insurance section a cross has been placed in the box to take PPI and the monthly 
benefit required is displayed next to this. I can see from the mortgage application that Mr N 
wasnt employed and that the policy was taken in Mrs Ns sole name. I think this suggests 
that there was some discussion about PPI and their circumstances and a choice was made 
about who would be covered based on this.
And I think because PPI was shown on the mortgage application Mr and Mrs N completed a 
separate application for it because they chose to do so because they wanted the cover. This was an advised sale of PPI. What this means is that Santander not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs N could 
make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for their needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Santander took all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs N for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mrs N says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay and 
had savings they could use to make their repayments if she couldnt work. But the 
policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and savings and covered their 
mortgage payments for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs N was too sick to work or 
lost her job. And the fact that the policy only covered Mrs N and she was the sole 
income earner suggests to me that their other means of paying their mortgage if Mrs 
N couldnt work was considered not to be enough.
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs N in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if they were unable to meet their 
repayments I think Mr and Mrs N wouldve been interested in protecting them.
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs N at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy they could cancel it. 
 
I also need to consider whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs N information in a way which 
was clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or 
not they wanted to take the policy out. I can see that the costs of PPI were clear in the 
schedule of cover that was sent out but I dont know if Santander gave all the information as 
it shouldve. But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr 
and Mrs N have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken 
out the PPI policy if theyd been given all the proper information at the time of sale.
This means Mr and Mrs N arent any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Santander.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained I do not uphold Mr and Mrs N's complaint against Santander 
UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman