DRN-2057498
The complaint
Mrs S is complaining that Ageas Insurance Limited undervalued her car when they offered 
her a settlement under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Ss car was unfortunately involved in a car accident in November 2019 and her car was 
written off.
Ageas initially offered Mrs S a settlement figure of £3,665 for her car. Following various 
correspondence between Mrs S and Ageas, Ageas said their final offer was £4,228. They 
explained they based their valuation on the values stated in certain trade guides. 
Mrs S complained that she couldnt replace her car for the amount Ageas were offering. She 
said she thought Ageas should offer her the retail price not the trade price. In Ageas final 
response letter, they offered her £4,380. Mrs S accepted an interim payment of this amount. 
When she complained to us, Mrs S said that her car was in excellent condition and she 
doesnt feel she should be out of pocket for someone elses mistake given the accident 
wasnt her fault. Shes asked that Ageas pay a fair, retail price for her car, to allow her to buy 
a similar car in similar condition. She added that at the time of the accident her car had 
recently been serviced and passed its MOT and said shed like a settlement of £5,000.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. She explained that although the guides 
Ageas had used were described as trade guides they include a guide to retail prices. She 
said Ageas had used the retail values from the guides when deciding what to offer Mrs S. 
Our investigators view was that Ageas had acted fairly when valuing Mrs Ss car  so she 
said they didnt need to do anything further.
Mrs S wasnt happy with this outcome. She said that she cant buy a similar car to the one 
she lost for the amount Ageas had paid her. She also said she thought there was a conflict 
of interest because Ageas also insured the third party who caused the accident  she felt 
Ageas might have offered her a higher settlement figure if they werent the insurer for both 
parties.
Because Mrs S didnt agree with our investigator, her complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Mrs S will be disappointed with the outcome, Im not upholding her 
complaint. When we consider these sorts of cases, we dont look to value cars ourselves, 
but instead we look at whether insurers have acted fairly and in line with the terms of the 
policy. Im satisfied Ageas have acted fairly when valuing her car - Ill explain why.
The starting point for deciding what is fair and reasonable here is to look at the agreement 
Ageas had with Mrs S. The policy terms said Ageas could decide whether to repair a car or 
pay a cash amount equal to the loss or damage. In this case, Ageas decided the car was a 
total loss. The policy said this meant Ageas would settle the claim for the market value of the 
car immediately before the incident. This would reflect the cost of replacing it with one of a 
similar age, type and condition. 
Mrs S has told us she cant buy a car of the same make, model, age and condition for the 
amount Ageas have offered her. And I can see that shes sent example adverts and 
valuations to Ageas to show this. The advertised prices of the examples Mrs S sent ranged 
from around £4,500 to £5,500. From looking at these adverts, I can see that the mileage was 
quite different in some of them from the mileage on Mrs Ss car  which would impact the 
valuation.
Ageas also looked at some adverts. And I can see from their files they found examples of 
the same model of car (with comparable age and mileage) advertised between £3,950 and 
£4,475. So, I can understand why they werent persuaded by Mrs Ss statement that she 
couldnt replace her car with the amount theyd offered.
As Ageas explained, they based their settlement offer on the values shown in two trade 
guides. Our investigator checked the valuation of the car in the same two trade guides and in 
a third and Ive looked at all three of those. Although these are trade guides, they set out a 
range of values, and Ive looked at the retail values when considering whether Ageass 
valuation is fair. These retail values represent cars in very good condition and with a 
long-dated MOT and good service history.
We generally think its fair for insurers to rely on these guides when deciding on a settlement 
offer. Thats because the guides are informed by national research and analysis of car sales 
to work out the likely selling price of a vehicle. We give this more weight than adverts for 
cars, as these are often set with negotiation in mind, so dont represent the final sale price of 
the car.
Looking at Ageass final settlement offer, theyve offered the higher value from the two 
guides they looked at. The third guide suggests a higher price for Mrs Ss car. When theres 
a significant difference between the guide prices we tend to place more reliance on the ones 
that are closer together  in this case thats the two Ageas looked at. And, when I take into 
account the example adverts Ive seen, I cant see any reason to put more weight on the 
higher guide price. Even if Ageas had factored in the third trade guide and then taken an 
average of all three, theyd have arrived at a very similar final settlement offer. So I cant say 
that Ageas has acted unfairly here.
I know Mrs S has said she thinks theres a conflict of interest because Ageas also insured 
the third party who caused the accident. But Ive seen no evidence of any conflict of interest 
impacting the valuation of Mrs Ss car. Taking everything together, Im satisfied Ageas have 
acted fairly and reasonably when they valued Mrs Ss car. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint against Ageas Insurance 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman