DRN-3661110
The complaint
Mr G complains about the actions of AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) related to an ongoing 
claim made under his buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr G or AXA includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known between parties and has been detailed at 
length elsewhere. So, Ive summarised events. 
In 2010 Mr Gs property was damaged by an escape of water.
Mr G made a claim on his AXA policy for damage to buildings and contents. And this 
matter is yet to be resolved.
Across the life of the claim, Mr G has raised many concerns about AXAs handling of 
the claim. Many of these matters have been referred to this Service for consideration.
Most recently, a final decision was issued in February 2021. The Ombudsman 
explained they had considered events from December 2017 onwards, making 
findings on a range of complaint points, including:
oDelays to repairs to the property
oAXAs cash settlement offer
oThe storage of Mr Gs personal effects
oMaintenance of the property during the life of the claim
oAXAs actions following locks being changed leading to use of his credit cards
oRemoval of items from the property
oAlternative accommodation and expenses
oAXAs communication
The Ombudsman discussed each of these points and didnt uphold the complaint or 
direct AXA to do anything further. Notably concluding its offer to cash settle the claim 
to a value of £250,000 in full and final settlement was fair in the circumstances and 
based on the evidence put forward by both parties. 
Mr G brought a further complaint to this Service. Raising concerns about AXAs 
actions as well as historic matters determined in previous complaints.
Our Investigator looked into things. He explained why he would be unable to 
investigate matters that had already had a final decision, including alternative 
accommodation, use of his own credit cards leading to avoidable debt, historic 
expenses, repairs, quality of works and claims handling. Particularly as the previous 
decision had determined AXAs full and final settlement was fair previously. 
The Investigator said nor would he be able to comment on matters that were yet to 
be raised with AXA, including a complaint about premium renewals. He found:
oUnpaid expenses and costs: Mr G had not provided any specific evidence 
about costs incurred after September 2019, with anything prior being covered 
by previous decisions. He said any further matters need to be clearly set out 
by Mr G that are unconnected to any previous complaints considered by this 
Service or legal action taken by his own solicitors.
oFly tipping: Mr G said there had been instances of fly tipping in his garden 
which AXA should take responsibility for. The Investigator said the most 
recent final decision had determined AXA was responsible for the 
maintenance and upkeep of his garden. And our Investigator said nothing had 
changed so he was satisfied AXA wasnt responsible for this.
oContents in storage: Mr G had made efforts to obtain his items from storage 
since early 2021, but this hasnt taken place, and AXA had provided no 
reason why. So, the Investigator upheld the complaint on this point, awarding 
£300 compensation.
Mr G disagreed providing several extensive replies. Within these he reiterated his 
concerns about previous decisions and conclusions reached by our Ombudsmen and 
Investigators on previous cases, as well as commentary about AXAs actions across 
the life of the claim, the impact of such actions, as well as criticism of AXAs cash 
settlement offer and how it reached such a figure.
AXA also disagreed, saying it had offered to remove all of Mr Gs contents from 
storage, clean them and return them to him. But it hadnt taken this action as Mr G 
had given conflicting requests about doing so. It also provided email chains that it 
said supported this and showed Mr G had visited the storage location in May 2021.
The Investigator looked again but didnt change his mind. He said the settlement had 
been made in April 2020 and was inclusive of all matters related to the claim, which 
was previously agreed as fair and reasonable within a final decision, so he would not 
revisit any such matters related to costs or expenses. 
And in reference to storage items, the Investigator agreed Mr G appeared to have 
visited the storage location, but said it was still clear some specific items had been 
requested to be delivered to him and this didnt take place as it shouldve so the 
compensation awarded was fair.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Gs submissions to this Service span many pages. Within this decision I wont be 
responding in similar detail. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of the 
informal nature of this Service.
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which means I will only 
comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make  which also 
means Ive not focused on the matters previously determined by this Service as I cannot 
revisit them. This means I wont comment on everything Mr G has said but I can confirm I 
have read and considered everything said by both parties. 
Unpaid expenses and costs:The 2021 final decision covered off the topic of AXAs full and final settlement. Mr G brings 
further expenses he wishes to have covered. As our Investigator has discussed, this matter 
isnt going to be readdressed as the decision was final. So, Mr G may still be able to take 
action against AXA for any alleged owed sums, but it will not be through this Service.
Garden maintenance/fly tipping:
Mr G has made reference to a direction made by this Service going back to 2013, which 
made requirements of AXA at the end of the claim in relation to reinstating the garden to its 
pre-loss condition. Within the February 2021 final decision the Ombudsman touched on this 
point, saying he would not readdress this particular point given the historic direction. For the 
same reasons its apparent this matter has been considered by this Service previously and 
so I will also not be discussing this point any further.
Mr G has said he holds AXA responsible for fly tipping at the property given the condition of 
the garden. Aside from any such obligations AXA may have accepted described above, on 
an ongoing basis I simply wouldnt consider it reasonable to hold AXA responsible for such 
actions of a third-party fly tipping on the property. So, this isnt something Im going to make 
any further direction on.
Contents in storage: 
Mr G has said AXA has been obstructive in allowing him access to his contents.
AXA has provided email chains that suggest Mr G did visit the site in May 2021 and say this 
is evidence his ability to access the contents were not obstructed although it did 
acknowledge some delays in doing so.
Having reviewed all of the correspondence, Im in agreement with our Investigator that the 
evidence suggests Mr G was requesting for items to be delivered and others to be inspected 
since December 2020. And by July 2021 Mr G was still chasing AXA to take action in 
regards to at least some of these points. So aside from Mr G visiting the storage site, it 
seems there were delays and issues still ongoing. And in light of the background to the 
complaint and history of the claim, I can see the impact of this matter wouldve been 
compounded. So, Im directing AXA to award £300 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding this complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc 
to pay Mr G £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman