DRN-4071233
The complaint
I a limited company complains that Santander UK Plc gave it false information about a 
payment which resulted in wasted time.
What happened
The director of I explains that he contacted Santander about a debit card payment for £51 to 
find out what this was. He says that he was given false information being that this was 
related to computer programming. He thinks that Santander should have had better 
information about where payments were made to comply with regulations and says that it 
provided poor service. And he spent time finding out himself what the payment was and 
arranging with the merchant for a refund.
Santander said it hadnt made a mistake. It said it could raise a dispute if the director of I 
didnt recognise a payment and review the details when received. Santander said in its final 
response that it had noted the merchants name as it appeared through the card payment 
system when it spoke to the director. And that the payment was in relation to a 
subscription for computer programming. It hoped this would allow I to make enquiries and a 
fraud dispute was raised. It said it wasnt able to provide any further information when the 
director had been in contact. Santander apologised for the time spent on calls but said that 
this could have been reduced as it had told I it couldnt then assist further.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He referred to what 
Santander had said it told I about the payment which he thought was reasonable. He didnt 
think that this had an overall effect on I that was significant.
I didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. The director said that the facts 
werent accurate and that the language used undermined things and showed a degree of 
bias. The information about the payment was discovered by chance and not from 
Santanders payment system. The merchant had told I that another card payment had been 
declined after the card had been cancelled. And the director contacted the merchant without 
reference to Santander and received a refund as these were charges relating to some old 
services and nothing to do with computer programming. Santander had provided false 
information about the merchant and directed I to websites which werent relevant and 
Santander itself was using a public search engine. The entire point of the complaint was that 
I wanted to find out the name and without that it was impossible to know if the transaction 
was valid. This has caused lost time for the director and distress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first need to say that this service isnt the regulator, and we dont have a role in reviewing or 
changing payment systems. We provide informal dispute resolution. So, I wouldnt be in a 
position to say that more information should be held about a card payment or to require 
Santander to change its processes.
There was limited information about this payment. I note from the information Santander had 
on its payment authorisation log that the merchant category code was one I understand to 
relate to computer programming, integrated systems design and data processing services 
and other similar services. I also note as Santander said that it was marked as a recurring 
payment. I dont see that Santander had more to provide at the time.
The position was that as I didnt recognise a payment on the basis of what it had been told a 
dispute was raised. This would allow Santander to receive information from the merchant 
through the relevant card scheme. And at that stage the merchant would be required to 
show it had a basis for the payment. Santander says it applied a temporary credit of £51 to 
Is account and I can see a refund on its bank statement.
I has explained that the director was able to identify this payment through his own research. 
And he said that the merchant agreed to refund it. The merchant had therefore accepted not 
to apply this charge. It seems too that I at some point had arranged for services from the 
merchant and provided card details. And that it wasnt fully aware of the recurring nature of 
charges, and of the basis for the specific payment of £51. Given these circumstances there 
would always have been some inconvenience for I to either deal with the merchant or to 
follow the dispute process.
I make clear that Im not relying on what I refers to as false facts here. Ive explained above 
why I think Santander made the statements it did to the director. And I dont have a basis to 
find it should have known more at that time given the way that the payment had been made 
and the payments process. I cant see that it was otherwise than trying to be helpful based 
upon what its front-line staff had available. Either that would give I sufficient to remember it 
had authorised a payment or if not for a dispute to be raised as Ive referred to above. The 
outcome was that the merchant agreed to the refund. I had already had a temporary refund 
from Santander. The refund became permanent, and the dispute process didnt need to 
continue further.
I is the complainant here and as a limited company cant suffer distress. Ive explained 
above why there would always be an element of inconvenience in these circumstances and 
Santander has apologised for the time that the director spent on the phone. I dont consider 
that it should fairly do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman