DRN-3888411
The complaint
Mrs C complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly declined 
her storm claim under her home insurance policy. Mrs C had representation during this 
complaint, but for ease and simplicity, I shall only refer to Mrs C.
What happened
Mrs C made a claim to Lloyds for the damage caused to her property by a storm. The 
corrugated metal garage roof lifted from the walls of her garage and landed in the garden.
Lloyds instructed a surveyor to review the damage and to validate the claim. Admiral 
decided to decline the claim. It said the surveyor noted the garage roof showed signs of 
wear and tear and lack of maintenance. Within the policy booklet well take into 
consideration the condition of the home prior to the insurable event, you can find more 
information on this on page 58 of your policy booklet. Lloyds shared its surveyors report 
with Mrs C.
Mrs C disagreed that wear and tear was the main cause of damage and thought her claim 
should be covered under the storm peril within her policy.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought Lloyds had been 
reasonable in declining the claim as she felt there was evidence that wear and tear was the 
main cause of damage. Mrs C disagreed with our investigator, so the case has been referred 
to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have started by considering whether I think Lloyds were reasonable in declining the claim. 
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
At the time of the reported incident, there were reported wind speeds of 64 mph  this meets 
the criteria for a storm as defined in Lloyds policy. So, Ill consider the next question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
I think storm force winds could cause some damage to a roof  but I would expect a well-
maintained roof to be structurally strong enough to generally withstand winds of the force at 
the time of the reported incident. However, as I think its possible there could be some 
damage experienced, such as dislodged tiles for example on a tiled roof, I will consider the 
next question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I have considered the surveyors report that was used in making its decision to decline the 
claim. The surveyor reported photos show that a section of the roof has become detached 
from the garage. Further investigation found that the garage roof was in a poor state of 
repair prior to the high winds. The surveyor concluded considering all the evidence 
available during our survey it is our considered opinion that the damage claimed has been 
as the result of wear and tear. We have therefore repudiated the claim accordingly and 
advised the policy holder of the same.
I have reviewed the policy and I can see there is a general exclusion for a gradually 
operating cause and for wear and tear. Wear and tear is defined in the policy as damage 
that naturally and inevitably occurs as a result of normal wear or ageing. The policy 
provides an example of weathering to a roof. A further exclusion described is lack of 
maintenance. The policy explains that the costs of any damage caused by inadequate 
maintenance are excluded from the cover of the policy.
Therefore, I think if there is evidence of wear and tear and inadequate maintenance, then Im 
likely to say that Lloyds has been fair in declining the claim. As damage caused by pre-
existing issues are excluded from the policy.
I think the surveyor couldve done more in his report to explain his conclusion. However, his 
statement has been supported by several photographs. I have reviewed these photographs 
 as well as photographs provided by Mrs C. I have no doubt that these photos highlight that 
the roof is extremely old. I can see clearly on some of the photos evidence of rotten timbers 
and I can see fixings have failed in these areas.
I think there is strong evidence in these pictures that the roof hasnt been adequately 
maintained, which has caused a weakening in the structural integrity of the building. The 
rotten timbers are evidence of wear and tear. Therefore, I cant say Lloyds has been 
unreasonable in declining the claim. I think its more likely the pre-existing issues were the 
main cause of the damage and the storm force winds merely highlighted these weaknesses. 
I think Lloyds has fairly declined the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
The neighbours garage appears not to be damaged and is an example of how a similar 
constructed building withstood the storm winds as it had been adequately maintained and 
there were no pre-existing issues. For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman