DRN-3894538
The complaint
Miss C complains about the way Highway Insurance Company Limited handled a claim 
against her motor insurance policy. 
Reference to Highway include their agents. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. In my decision, Ill focus 
mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have. 
Miss C held a motor insurance policy with Highway. 
In 2022, she raised a windscreen claim and after paying her excess says Highway instructed 
their agents to deal with the claim. Miss C says the windscreen was replaced, but poorly 
fitted, meaning water entered her vehicle and caused damage to the carpets, seats, and 
steering rack. She also says the service received was poor  she wasnt called back as 
promised, amongst other things. 
Miss C says roughly a month after repairs, assessors came to inspect her vehicle and found 
no water corrosion damage, but she was paid some compensation. She says her partner 
took days off work to handle the claim and Highways agent also caused further damage to 
the exterior of the vehicle  although Miss C says shes no evidence to support this. 
Miss C complained and says she received a final response letter from Highways agent 
saying they needed more time to resolve it. So, Miss C brought a complaint to our service for 
an independent review. She also says she was paid £1,400 compensation but wasnt sure 
what this amount was in relation to. 
Our investigator contacted Highway on several occasions from June 2022 requesting their 
supporting evidence. Highway say they couldnt locate Miss C, or the claim, and Highways 
agent were responsible for resolving Miss Cs complaint. Our investigator pointed out Miss 
Cs certificate of insurance showed Highway were the insurer and responsible for the 
complaint. 
As no supporting evidence was received from Highway despite several requests, she 
recommended the complaint be upheld and Highway should pay Miss C a further £100 
compensation for the way the claim was handled. 
Highway responded to say they couldnt locate Miss Cs details or the claim, so our 
investigator provided further information and chased Highway on 7 and 29 December 2022. 
As no response was received, she arranged for the case to be considered by an 
ombudsman. And its now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service is an evidence-based organisation. Ive noted that Highway were asked several 
times to provide supporting evidence  but told us theyve been unable to locate Miss Cs 
policy, or claim, despite our investigator providing them with policy details and claim 
information. 
Id remind Highway that under the relevant DISP rules, theyre required to co-operate with 
our service once a complaint that we can consider is referred for our consideration. 
The relevant DISP rules for the approach Im taking here are DISP 1.4.4 and DISP 3.5.14: 
Co-operating with the Financial Ombudsman Service 
Where a complaint against a respondent is referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
the respondent must cooperate fully with the Financial Ombudsman Service and comply 
promptly with any settlements or awards made by it. 
And: If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: 
(1) Proceed with consideration of the complaint; and 
(2) Include a provision for any material distress or material inconvenience caused by that 
failure in any award which he desires to make. 
The certificate of insurance provided by Miss C sets out the insurer is Highway. The policy 
documents that accompany this also set out that: 
Section Four  Windscreen / Window Glass 
If You have comprehensive cover and windscreen cover is endorsed on Your current 
insurance schedule, We will pay, subject to a maximum of £1,000 (£300 if authorised 
repairer is not used), for the repair or replacement of the glass, windscreen or window 
The policy also says reference to We / Us / Our / Insurer(s) means the insurance company 
detailed on the certificate of motor insurance. As above, this states the insurer is Highway.
Miss C says when she raised a claim, she raised it through Highway (her policy) and 
proceeded to pay her policy excess. She then says she was referred to an agent of Highway 
for the claim to be settled. So, even though Highways agents administered the claim, 
Highway are ultimately responsible for the complaint Miss C has raised. 
As mentioned above, Ive had to rely on the available evidence when coming to my decision. 
That is  the information available to me now, following our investigator providing both 
parties a fair opportunity to provide any evidence to support their position. 
Our case history shows Highway were contacted several times using the correct contact 
information our service holds, since June 2022. As such, Im satisfied Highway were given a 
fair opportunity to provide evidence to support their position, and enough information to 
locate their customer. 
So, based on the evidence currently to hand, I find that: 
The claim didnt run as smoothly as all parties would have expected it to, and claim 
repairs were poor which resulted in further repairs being required.
Miss C says she was promised call backs, but these never happened. Based on Miss Cs testimony, Im satisfied the way the claim was handled caused 
her further distress and inconvenience  over and above whats naturally expected 
following a claim of this nature.
Miss C says she received £1,400 compensation in total but wasnt sure what this amount 
was in relation to. She says shes concerned that, given water found its way into the vehicle 
following the poor repair, future issues may arise with corrosion. She also says Highways 
agent caused further damage to the exterior of her vehicle. 
Im unable to direct Highway to compensate Miss C for circumstances that may occur in 
future. Miss C also hasnt provided strong supporting evidence that demonstrates further 
damage was caused to the external areas of the vehicle. 
I do, however, find the claim was handled poorly overall. I say this because Miss C had to 
arrange further repairs to be carried out to put right the initial works. She also says Highway 
failed to call her back when promised to, and her partner had to take additional days off work 
to handle the claim. 
Therefore, based on the information I do have, I find £100 compensation to be fair, 
reasonable, and proportionate in the circumstances of the complaint. So, Ill be directing 
Highway to pay Miss C £100. 
Putting things right
Highway Insurance Company Limited must pay Miss C £100 compensation for any distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman