DRN-2657587
The complaint
Mr A complains Assurant General Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim hes made 
on his mobile phone insurance.
What happened
The history of this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive only provided a summary of 
whats happened.
Mr A has a mobile phone policy underwritten by Assurant
He was considering selling his phone and was contacted by a third party who said he 
was interested in buying it, but wanted to come see it first
The third party arrived at Mr As property and, having initially waited outside due to 
Covid restrictions, then proceeded to enter the premises unexpectedly 
He grabbed the phone from Mr A and ran out of the premises into a waiting car and 
drove off
Mr A reported the theft to the police and to Assurant to make a claim
Assurant said as Mr A had been in the process of selling the phone, the terms of the 
policy didnt cover this kind of incident and it declined the claim 
Our investigator disagreed with this and said Assurant should pay the claim and as it 
disagreed, the complaint has been brought to me to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurer seeks to rely on an exclusion to decline a claim, the onus is on it to show 
the exclusion more than likely applies. Assurant says the following exclusion applies in this 
case:
We do not cover any loss of your mobile phone or any loss of money expected from 
any transaction, from the sale or trade of your mobile phone. This is because the 
mobile phone will have been actively passed to an individual or a business and, 
therefore, no loss or theft has been taken place
Assurant says Mr A suffered a loss of money expected from a transaction from the sale of 
his phone, rather than a theft. But Ive not seen any evidence to show an inspection of the 
phone (which involved it being actively passed to the third party) took place as the phone 
was stolen before this happened. 
Assurant hasnt disputed what happened  that the third party entered Mr As premises 
unexpectedly, snatched the phone out of Mr As hand and ran off with it. Im satisfied this 
means the phone was stolen. So, Im not persuaded, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, that a sale had yet commenced. And for these reasons, Im not satisfied it was fair or 
reasonable for Assurant to rely on this exclusion to decline the claim.
Assurant has pointed to a decision issued by another ombudsman on a case which it says 
has similar circumstances. But my role is to assess the individual circumstances of this 
particular case and having done so, Im satisfied there are some key differences from the 
case it refers to. 
Overall, Im satisfied Assurant acted unfairly when it declined Mr As claim and it should now 
accept the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Assurant General Insurance 
Limited to accept the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman