DRN-2978039
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs B complain that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) sold them an 
insurance policy that they didnt agree to.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs B bought a washing machine in 2015. Alongside this they set up a repair and 
protect plan with D&G to provide cover for the machine in the event of a breakdown. The 
plan was initially for 12 months and renewed annually, with premiums being collected from 
their joint bank account.
In January 2021 Mr M wrote to D&G to ask why money was being taken from his account 
and to ask for a refund. D&G responded to confirm the details of his plan. However Mr M 
said he had not agreed for this to be set up and made a complaint. 
D&G didnt uphold his complaint as it said it had been taking monthly payments for the plan 
from 2015 until 2021. And a repair had been carried out under the plan in the first year.  Mr 
M was unhappy with the response and brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as 
she said she thought there was enough evidence to suggest Mr M and Mrs B were aware 
the plan had been taken out.
Mr M and Mrs B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Since the complaint came to me, I had concerns around whether this service had the 
jurisdiction to consider the matter. However on reviewing everything Im satisfied that I can 
consider whether the policy was set up correctly and that this should be considered against 
Domestic & General Insurance Plc.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M and Mrs B say they hadnt realised they had taken out a plan and money had been 
taken from their account which they hadnt agreed to. In order to uphold this complaint, Id 
need to be satisfied that they were unaware they had the plan from the start. Having 
reviewed everything, I think its more likely that they were aware of the plan, for the following 
reasons:
D&G have shown that amounts of around £10 were taken from Mr M and Mrs Bs 
account each month from 2015 until 2021. This is a large number of payments, and I 
would expect Mr M and Mrs B to raise concerns at an earlier date if it was something 
they didnt recognise.
D&G have shown that the plan was used for a repair in the first year it was purchased to 
fix a blockage in the pump.
Mrs B called D&G in March 2020 to activate a plan for a dishwasher. During this call the 
operator referred to their other active plan for the washing machine and Mrs B didnt 
query this.  
Mr M and Mrs B have said they didnt receive the renewal notices for the plan, as they 
believe they were sent to the wrong address. While I can see D&G did send the renewal 
letters each year, I dont doubt what Mr M and Mrs B say. However this alone isnt 
enough to convince me that they were unaware of the plan, when considered alongside 
the other evidence. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr M and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman