DRN-1862999
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined her pet 
insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents.  
What happened
In November 2019 Mrs Hs dog was unfortunately involved in an accident with a vehicle 
which resulted in her needing vet treatment. Mrs H claimed for the treatment on her dogs 
pet insurance policy. Red Sands is the insurer.
Red Sands declined the claim. It said under the policy terms there was no cover as Mrs H 
hadnt taken all reasonable measures to ensure her dog couldnt escape and if she and her 
dog were near a road the dog should have been on a lead.
Mrs H complained to us. She said there was nothing anyone could have done to stop her 
dog running off when it happened. She wants Red Sands to pay the claim.
Our investigator said Red Sands should pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms 
and limits, plus interest.
Red Sands disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Red Sands fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I dont 
think it did. I uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy says:
You must ensure your pet cannot escape or stray from your property and any area in 
which a dog is kept must be secure and appropriately fenced or otherwise secured 
and all reasonable steps must be taken to prevent escape.
When loading your pet into or out of your vehicle, you must ensure that the area is 
either secure or your pet is on a lead.
When Mrs H made the claim she told Red Sands how the accident happened:
(The dog) is a young rescue (bred stated) that we have had for 5 months. She had 
just got back from a walk with our other dog, both stood in the bow of our boat 
waiting for their paws to be dried when she unexpectedly jumped out of the boat and 
headed down the embankment to the little country road at the bottom before my 
partner could stop her. There was the noise of a bang and a scream from (dogs 
name) then the sound of a car disappearing rapidly up the road. My partner rushed 
down to her, she was still at that point just able to walk but covered in blood, 
lacerations and skin tears. We got her to the vet asap.
Mrs H gave Red Sands further detail when it declined the claim. She said shed had rescue 
dogs for many years so was fully aware of the need for security. The boat, on which they 
live, has been made very secure with a tightfitting canopy and grills on all doors and 
hatches. They werent near a road when the dog escaped, she ran more than 200 yards and 
down an embankment to the nearest road. Mrs H said she and her partner had taken all 
reasonable steps to ensure the safety of her dog and in many years of dog ownership they 
never had any accidents, until this event.
Mrs Hs testimony is clear and consistent and Ive no reason to think what shes said isnt 
accurate. Red Sands replied in response to our investigators view that Mrs H hasnt 
provided any photographs to show her boat was secure. But I cant see that it asked her for 
any photographs at the time of the claim and thats not a reason to doubt what Mrs H says.
I dont think Red Sands comment that the dog should have been on a lead near a road is 
relevant. She wasnt near a road when she ran off and wasnt getting in or out of a vehicle, 
she was in a boat where she lives. Red Sands cant fairly decline the claim on the basis that 
the dog wasnt on a lead.
Mrs Hs vet told Red Sands that the dog was of good temperament with conscientious 
owners and, I understand, has no history of escaping previously. The evidence supports 
that the dogs escaping was uncharacteristic and that Mrs H would have taken reasonable 
steps to try to ensure she was safe.
Im satisfied from the safety measures on the boat that Mrs H described that she was aware 
about security and she had taken reasonable steps to try to ensure her dog was secure and 
couldnt escape. Just because Mrs Hs dog escaped on the occasion claimed for doesnt 
mean that Mrs H hadnt taken reasonable steps to try to prevent escape.
Putting things right
Red Sands must pay the claim in line with the remaining terms, conditions and limits. If 
Mrs H has already paid the treatment claimed Red Sands must add interest on the 
settlement as Ive detailed below.    
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint.
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay the claim in line with the 
remaining terms, conditions and limits. If Mrs H has already paid for the treatment claimed 
interest* must be added to the settlement at 8% a year from the date Mrs H paid the vet to 
the date of settlement.
If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs H how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mrs H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Nicola SiskOmbudsman