DRN-4275884
The complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK Plc closed his bank account and provided him with poor 
customer service.
What happened
The detailed background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr F had a basic bank account with Santander. 
In November 2022, Santander blocked and reviewed Mr Fs account. Following the review, in 
December 2022, Santander decided to close Mr Fs account immediately and sent him a 
cheque for his closing balance 
Mr F wasnt happy about his account being closed and from being stopped from accessing 
the money in his account. So, he visited a Santander branch and complained about what 
was happening to his account. Mr F says when he did staff were rude and unhelpful. He said 
he wasnt given much information. Mr F says Santanders actions made him feel depressed 
and he had to borrow money from friends because he couldnt access the money in his 
account because Santander had blocked it. He wants Santander to reopen his account, tell 
him why it closed his account and pay him compensation for the trouble and upset he was 
caused.
In response, Santander said it hadnt done anything wrong and had closed Mr Fs account in 
line with the terms and conditions of his account. It also said that when Mr F had visited a 
branch, he was rude and abusive which had led to staff calling police. 
Mr F brought his complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into what 
had happened. After looking at everything, she said that Santander should have given Mr F 
more notice when it closed his account. So, she said Santander should pay Mr F £250 
compensation for the trouble and upset closing the account immediately had caused him. 
She didnt think Santander had provided Mr F with poor service and had completed its 
review without any delays. Mr F agreed. Santander disagreed and provided more 
information. 
Following this, the investigator had another look at Mr Fs complaint. After reviewing 
everything she said Santander hadnt done anything wrong when it had closed Mr Fs 
account without notice. So, she didnt think Santander needed to do anything. 
Mr F disagreed. He maintains that Santander treated him unfairly when it closed his account. 
He explained he doesnt think hes done anything wrong and wants the bank to provide a 
proper explanation why it closed his account. He told the investigator that he has since 
managed to open another account, but it has expensive account fees, so he wants 
Santander to reopen his account.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr F was disappointed by the investigators opinion and I can see that he has 
provided a detailed response to what she said about his complaint. Id like to reassure 
Mr F that Ive considered the whole file and whats hes said. But Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because I 
failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. No discourtesy is intended by me in 
taking this approach. 
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information 
Santander has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. This 
means I havent been able to share a lot of detail with Mr F, but Id like to reassure him that I 
have considered everything that hes told us.
Ill start by setting out some context for why Santander reviewed Mr Fs account. Santander 
are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory 
obligations. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from 
financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. Theyre also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to 
restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their review. The 
terms of the account also permit Santander to block an account. This means Santander is 
entitled to block and review an account at any time.
Having looked at all the evidence, including how Mr F was using his account, I dont believe 
it was unreasonable in the circumstances for Santander to block Mr Fs account. Santander 
has explained that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that 
in doing so Santander were complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, whilst I 
accept, the banks actions caused Mr F inconvenience and upset when it blocked his 
account, I cant say the bank did anything wrong and treated him unfairly in doing so. 
I understand of course why Mr F wants to know the exact reasons behind Santanders 
actions. And I can see that Mr F went into a branch and asked Santander to explain itself on 
more than one occasion. But Santander doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a 
review of their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr F the reasons behind the 
account review and block, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything 
wrong by not giving Mr F this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it 
to do so. 
Ive next gone on to consider whether Santander acted fairly when it closed Mr Fs account. 
Mr F had a basic bank account with Santander. These types of current account are intended 
for people who dont have and dont qualify for standard current accounts. In order to be 
eligible for a payment account with basic features an individual shouldnt hold a payment 
account with any United Kingdom credit institution that has at least the features of a basic 
bank account. Im satisfied that Mr F was eligible to open the account when he did as he had 
no other bank accounts at the time.
Santander is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. 
But it must do so in line with the terms and conditions of the account. The terms and conditions of Mr Fs account, which Santander and Mr F had to comply with, say that it could 
close the account by giving him at least two months notice. In certain circumstances 
Santander can also close the account immediately, which is what happened here. 
When closing a basic account, along with the terms and  conditions of the account, 
Santander also had to consider the provisions of the Payment Accounts Regulations Act 
2015 (PARs 2015). Amongst other things they set out when an account provider can close a 
basic bank account. Closure is only permitted in certain circumstances  one of them 
involves the conduct of the account and the way it is being run. The regulations also go onto 
to say that depending on the circumstances a bank isnt obliged to tell a customer why the 
account has been closed.
Santander has provided this service with information about why it decided to close Mr Fs 
basic bank account immediately. On balance when considering all the information available 
to me, which includes how Mr F was using his account, I find Santander had a legitimate 
basis for closing Mr F's account immediately and not tell him why. So, I dont find Santander 
treated Mr F unfairly when it closed his account, and I wont be asking the bank to reopen 
Mr Fs account (even if he was eligible to do so) which he now isnt as he has since opened 
another bank account which offers him the same services as a basic bank account. 
Finally, Mr F says Santander provided him with poor service during the time his account was 
blocked. And when he tried to get his closing balance. He has said that staff were rude to 
him, didnt give him any information and didnt let him have the money in his account quickly 
enough. Firstly, Im satisfied that Santander didnt cause any undue delays in releasing 
Mr Fs closing balance to him. I note too that Santander told Mr F he could have access to 
any wages or benefits paid into his account whilst its review was ongoing. So, I dont agree 
Mr F wasnt allowed access to his funds.
Ive also not seen any evidence that Santander were rude or unhelpful to Mr F  based on 
the evidence Ive seen Im not persuaded that Santander provided Mr F with poor service or 
that the staff involved were rude or sought to upset Mr F in anyway. I am also satisfied from 
looking at the contact notes that Santander provided as much information as possible about 
what it was doing each time Mr F went into a branch. 
In summary, I realise Mr F will be disappointed by my decision. But having looked at all the 
evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I cant conclude that Santander have treated 
Mr F unfairly when it blocked and closed his account, So, I wont be telling Santander to do 
anything to resolve Mr Fs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman