DRN-3937219
The complaint
Ms Q complains about the interest shes been charged by Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited (SDFC) and she says it didnt tell her that interest was going to be charged 
because payments hadnt been received. She says shes asked to close her account, but its 
still open.
What happened
Ms Q has a home shopping account with SDFC. She says she doesnt look at her account 
regularly because of her poor mental health, but that when she looked at it for the first time 
in quite a while, she noticed shed been charged about £600 in interest this year. Ms Q says 
she asked SDFC to close her account, but its still open and shes still being charged 
interest.
Ms Q says she didnt receive any letters from SDFC about the interest being charged or the 
payments that shed missed, and she wants SDFC to restore all charges to her account; 
close her account; and allow her to pay off the outstanding balance easily.
SDFC rejected this complaint. It explained that the account was an interest bearing one and 
had been operated in accordance with the credit agreement and the terms and conditions 
signed by Ms Q when she first opened her account in January 2014.
It said any orders or purchases added to an account incur interest which is then added to the 
account at each new statement cycle. It said that a customer could avoid interest charges 
when they took advantage of payment options such as Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) or 
Take 3; both of which required payments to be made at specific points to avoid interest 
being charged.
If, however, Ms Q did not pay the correct amount required or the payment was late or 
missed, then she would be charged interest. SDFC said Ms Q did not make all the payments 
on time and shed also missed some altogether and, as a result, interest had been charged 
in accordance with the account terms and conditions.
SDFC says Ms Qs account statements were available to her online, and that it notified its 
customers via email or SMS messages that a statement was ready for viewing, so that 
transactions could be reviewed, and the required payment could be made by the due date 
indicated.
SDFC says it had not previously been made aware of Ms Qs health and personal 
circumstances, and had it been, it couldve provided support and assistance with account 
management. It says it may be in a position to offer her a suitable repayment plan.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
he was satisfied that interest had been charged in accordance with the account terms and 
conditions and that as long as a balance remained on the account, it couldnt be closed. He 
said he understood that Ms Q hadnt looked at her account or her statements regularly, but 
this wasnt something he could hold SDFC responsible for  it had done what it was required 
to do by sending her messages to let her know her monthly statements were available to 
review.
He did suggest that Ms Q contact SDFC if she was finding it difficult to make the required 
payments because it is required to act positively and sympathetically in these circumstances.
Ms Q disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken everything into consideration, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Ive been provided with a copy of the credit agreement that Ms Q signed in January 2014 
when she first opened her account. The agreement says that for purchases made using the 
Take 3 option, no interest is charged on the balance for a statement period if the required 
payment shown on the previous statement is paid by the due date. It then explains that if 
payment isnt made, interest will be charged, and it explains the basis upon which interest 
will be calculated.
The agreement explains that for purchases made using the BNPL option, although interest 
accrues from the date of the purchase, it isnt applied to a customers account unless the 
transaction isnt repaid in full by the end of the agreed deferred period.
Taking this into account along with the account terms and conditions, Im satisfied that SDFC 
has acted fairly in the way its charged interest and I dont think its made a mistake.
Ive also had sight of Ms Qs account statements, and Ive noted that these set out details of 
her purchases and the cost of these purchases along with any BNPL or Take 3 option 
selected. The statements show the required minimum monthly payment and the due date of 
this payment. They also provide details of any delayed payment period ending in the near 
future and the associated interest that will be applied if the balance isnt settled in full by a 
specific date.
So, Im satisfied that Ms Q ought to have been aware of what payments were required each 
month; by what date the payment needed to be made; and what interest would be charged if 
the account balance wasnt settled.
I understand that Ms Q didnt look at her account statements regularly, and her reasons for 
not doing so. But that isnt something I can hold SDFC responsible for. It managed the 
account in line with the account terms and conditions and it provided the information Id 
expect it to, so that Ms Q would know what needed paying each month and by what date.
I know Ms Q is keen to close her account, but it isnt wrong for SDFC to require the 
outstanding balance be repaid before the account can be closed.
Ms Q says shes experiencing financial difficulties and I do understand the added worry this 
will cause her. In the first instance, Id encourage her to get in touch with SDFC and explain 
her current situation so that it can look at what options it can make available to her in regard 
to the repayment of the outstanding balance. SDFC will be aware of its obligations to act 
positively and sympathetically, exercising forbearance and due consideration. I know Ms Q will be disappointed with the outcome of her complaint, but I hope she 
understands why Ive reached the conclusions that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman