DRN-4326419
The complaint
Mr F complains that a car acquired with finance from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. Hes unhappy because hes been unable to achieve the range that he 
thought the car would achieve.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr F was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander. At the point of supply the car was around 4 years old and had 
covered around 67,000 miles.
Soon after getting the car Mr F raised a complaint with Santander. He said he wasnt getting 
the range hed been told the car would achieve, and that he was getting around 20 miles 
instead of the 30 miles the dealer told him he would achieve.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that although the maximum range of 
the car was 30 miles, it was reasonable to expect that the capacity and performance of the 
battery would change over time. The investigator said he hadnt seen any evidence to 
suggest that there was a fault with the battery. He said hed reviewed the messages 
between Mr F and the dealer and thought that these were consistent with the maximum 
range of the battery and that he didnt think it was unusual for the range to reduce over time.
Mr F didnt agree. He said he didnt feel that his complaint about misrepresentation had been 
properly considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable taking into account factors such as the 
age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the car 
includes its general condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, freedom from minor 
defects, safety and durability.
Id expect a second hand car such as the one supplied to Mr F to have a  degree of wear 
and tear already and to require repairs and maintenance sooner than, say, a brand new car. 
So, in order to uphold any complaint about the quality of the car, Id need to be satisfied that 
there was a fault with the battery at the point of supply, as opposed to a reduction in battery 
performance due to the age and mileage of the car.
This service asked Santander if it would arrange an independent inspection of the car to 
determine whether there was a fault with the battery. Santander said it would. But Mr F didnt 
confirm his agreement to an inspection. He said his complaint was about misrepresentation.
Mr F has provided screenshots which show the range hes managed to achieve. This ranges 
from around 20 miles when he first got the car and reduced to a lowest range of 12 miles in 
December 2022 but increased again to 16 miles in May 2023.
A battery pack on an electric car is designed to last the lifetime of the car. However, as the 
car gets older, the battery will begin to lose the amount of energy it can store. This battery 
degradation can result in reduced energy capacity, range, power and overall efficiency.
In the absence of any evidence to show that theres a fault with the battery, Im unable to say 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Its more likely that the 
battery has degraded in a manner commensurate with the age and mileage of the car.
Misrepresentation
Mr F has said that the supplying dealer told him that the car would achieve a range of 30 
miles when fully charged. He says this was a misrepresentation.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact made by one party which affects the other 
partys decision in agreeing to a contract.
Mr F has said that the supplying dealer made false statement about the range of the car 
during discussions prior to the point of supply. Theres no notes or recordings of these 
discussions and because I wasnt present, I cant be certain of exactly what was said. In 
circumstances like this, I need to look at any contemporaneous evidence to see whats most 
likely to have been said. 
Mr F has provided copies of text messages between himself and the dealer, which Mr F says 
reflect the same misrepresentations that the dealer made orally.
Ive reviewed the text messages. These show that on 6 September 2022 Mr F queried the 
range of the car. The dealer responded that the car could achieve up to 30 miles and 
provided Mr F with a link to the manufacturers website.
Having reviewed the messages, and taking all of the relevant factors into account, Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence for me to say that theres been a misrepresentation. 
I say this because a statement that a car can achieve up to 30 miles (my emphasis added) 
isnt untrue in circumstances where the car achieves (for instance) 20 miles, because 20 
miles is within the definition of up to 30 miles. I havent seen any evidence to support Mr Fs 
assertion that the dealer said the car would definitely achieve 30 miles. Ive had regard to 
the link to the manufacturers website that was provided to Mr F. The manufacturer states 
that the maximum range is 30 miles. Whilst I might expect a brand new car to achieve the 
maximum range, I think its reasonable to expect that the range would be reduced on a car 
which was 4 years old and had covered 67,000 miles.
Taking everything into account, and for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, nor do I think theres been a 
misrepresentation here. I wont be asking Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman