DRN-2016089
The complaint
 Mr A complains that he was unable to appeal a declined loan decision with Bank of Ireland 
(UK) plc, trading as the Post Office (BOI).   
What happened
Mr A says he applied for a loan with BOI and this was declined. Mr A says he tried to 
telephone BOI to appeal the decision but couldnt get through and then emailed them 
instead without any reply. A few weeks later he contacted BOI again only to be told that he 
couldnt appeal the decision because he was outside their 30-day time period to appeal. As 
a result of the loan being declined and Mr As inability to appeal, this has resulted in his 
credit file being affected and Mr A wants this corrected and compensation paid for his 
inconvenience. 
BOI says the loan was declined as it didnt meet their risk appetite, and this has correctly 
been recorded on his credit file. BOI says they apologised for the problems Mr A 
experienced trying to contact them, but this was during an unprecedented time with the 
pandemic and phone calls were taking much longer to answer. 
Mr A was unhappy with BOIs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available and while he felt BOI had acted fairly 
in declining the loan and marking the credit file, felt Mr A wasnt treated fairly when he tried 
to appeal the decision. In view of this the investigator recommended a compensation 
payment of £50 be awarded to Mr A for the trouble and upset caused. 
While BOI accepted the view of the investigator Mr A didnt and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can see it would be disappointing for Mr A to see his request for a loan to be declined 
despite an earlier quick check tool suggesting  he had a very high likelihood of success. I 
can understand following that it would be frustrating for Mr A to not be able to contact BOI to 
appeal this decision or receive responses to his email about this. 
I understand Mr As frustration here and while he hasnt complained formally to this service 
about BOIs decision to decline his loan request, I can say the reason given to Mr A by them 
is sufficient and its not for me to tell them how they must come to a decision to meet their 
appetite to lend. In this case Mr A no longer wishes to pursue this loan application so there is 
no point in my making any recommendations as to whether BOI should reopen the appeals 
process for him. What I have looked at is whether his credit file should be amended as a 
result of him not being able to appeal the loan decision and if the compensation suggested 
by the investigator is sufficient.
As I have said before, I am satisfied that BOI have given an acceptable reason why the loan 
was declined in their letter to Mr A in March 2020. Mr A believes the reason for its decline 
related to a fraudulent account opened in his name with a retailer, I am unable to comment 
on this as BOI are not obliged to divulge the reasons that sit behind their decision to lend as 
this can be commercially sensitive information. BOI have confirmed to this service, this was 
a case of Mr A not meeting their credit appetite. 
I understand Mr As point that his loan request seemed to indicate a high percentage of 
success when he put this through a quick check tool but even so, its worth mentioning 
here, a loan request is subject to many other checks before formal approval is granted. 
Overall, I am satisfied from what I have seen, Mr As loan application underwent BOIs usual 
underwriting assessment, so it follows that BOI were correct in advising this to the 
appropriate Credit Reference Agencies. 
I can understand Mr A tried to attempt to appeal the decision made by BOI but as a result of 
these unprecedented times he was unable to get through on the telephone and his email 
follow up seems to have been ignored. BOI suggest they have no record of an email from Mr 
A, but I have seen an automated response from BOI that suggests Mr A did in fact follow this 
up. This has meant he wasnt able to lodge his appeal in time and while I accept that, there 
is nothing to suggest any appeal would have been successful, and an appeal process could 
have led to further credit checks being recorded. 
Having said that, as BOI failed to respond to Mr As request for an appeal, I support the 
investigators view an appropriate compensation payment to recognise this is warranted I 
see BOI have accepted this.  While Mr A may not agree, I am satisfied that the payment of 
£50 is fair given the overall circumstances here and for the reasons I have already 
explained. 
Its worth mentioning all this happened during the pandemic and these are unprecedented 
times, so some delays in telephone calls especially, arent entirely unexpected. On balance, 
I am satisfied that BOI could have done more to acknowledge Mr As email requesting an 
appeal.
While Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, I support the investigators view that a 
compensation payment of £50 is fair and reasonable and should be paid by BOI.
Putting things right
 I instruct Bank of Ireland (UK) plc trading as the Post Office to pay Mr A £50 by way of 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Bank of Ireland (UK) plc trading 
as the Post Office to pay Mr A £50 by way of compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman