DRN-3753747
The complaint
Mr R complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt take enough care to protect his account, 
after there were fraudulent attempts to use his credit card.
What happened
On 2 November 2021, Barclays received several calls about Mr Rs credit card. The caller 
passed security using the account details, but Barclays was suspicious and it blocked the 
account and contacted Mr R, asking him to get in touch.
Mr R rang Barclays on 3 November. He confirmed transactions on his account, and the card 
was unblocked.
Mr R received paper statements, and by 25 November this was overdue, so he rang 
Barclays again. Barclays said Mr R had asked for his statements to be online  but he 
hadnt. So Mr R was put through to Barclays fraud team.
Barclays told Mr R that someone had phoned Barclays and had passed security on Mr Rs 
account. The caller had then changed the postal address on the account on 7 November; 
had asked for a replacement card the next day; and a few days later had registered the 
account for online services and had changed the phone number. Mr Rs personal details 
were provided to pass security on all three occasions.
Mr R hadnt made any of these calls, which were fraudulent. So Barclays fraud team:
- changed back his address and phone number;
- agreed an additional password for extra security;
- blocked Mr Rs card and posted him a new card and, separately, a new PIN;
- recorded a protective marker with an anti-fraud organisation; and
- disabled the online registration. But as Ive set out below, it later turned out this 
hadnt been fully implemented.
On 27 November, Mr R sent Barclays a Signed For letter about the issues. He asked a 
number of questions about what had happened, and asked for his paper monthly statement 
urgently so he could verify transactions.
On 14 December, Mr R hadnt had a reply, and he also still hadnt received his November 
statement, which hed asked for during the 25 November phone call and in his subsequent 
letter. He rang Barclays and was again told that hed asked for statements to be online. Mr R 
said he hadnt, and said it appeared Barclays hadnt corrected this from the previous call.
On 15 December, the mobile banking app was used to change the phone number on Mr Rs 
account. The app was used the next day to apply for a balance transfer of £4650. Barclays 
systems blocked the balance transfer.  Both of these attempts were carried out by the 
fraudster.
On 23 December, Barclays sent Mr R a voicemail asking him to get in touch. Mr R rang 
Barclays straightaway, and was told about the change to his phone number and the balance 
transfer attempt. Barclays changed the number back, confirmed the blocked balance transfer 
as fraudulent, and blocked the card. Mr R asked how this could have happened when an 
additional password had been set up on 25 November following the fraudsters earlier 
actions. He said Barclays didnt reply about that, but it appears it was because the additional 
password would only have covered phone calls not online transactions.
By 9 January 2022, Mr R had received a new card but not yet the new PIN. He wrote again 
to Barclays, setting out the latest events and pointing out that hed continued to have issues. 
He asked questions, including how the latest attempts could have happened given the 
additional password. He said he was very stressed and anxious about the security of his 
account, and Barclays had failed to provide any response.
Mr R contacted this service the same day. We got in touch with Barclays, as the rules set for 
us say that financial organisations have to have an opportunity to provide a final response 
letter, before we can consider a complaint. 
Barclays sent Mr R a final response letter on 26 January. It upheld Mr Rs complaint, saying 
it appeared Barclays hadnt done enough to protect his account when it was first made 
aware hed been the victim of fraud. It said that after Mr Rs confirmation that he hadnt 
authorised the changes in early November, it had corrected his account details, including 
deleting the online facility. But Barclays acknowledged this didnt appear to have worked, as 
the fraudster changed the details again and attempted a balance transfer. It told Mr R that 
wherever possible, it referred known suspects or viable leads to the police.
Barclays also said that it couldnt determine why Mr R hadnt had a new PIN or his 
November statement. It enclosed statements for November, December, and January. 
Barclays apologised for the delay but said it hadnt received Mr Rs November tracked letter. 
Barclays said it had put additional measures in place to protect him, including adding a 
password of Mr Rs choosing to the account. Barclays paid Mr R £50 compensation.
Mr R wasnt satisfied and on 15 February wrote back to Barclays. Hed had another email 
confirming his online statement was ready, so hed decided to close the account. Mr R had 
similar emails confirming his online statement was ready, on 21 January, 18 February, and 
18 March.
Barclays didnt reply to Mr Rs 15 February request to close his account. So he confirmed to 
us that he wanted this service to investigate.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. She said she thought Barclays had taken 
the necessary precautions to keep Mr Rs account safe. The fraudster had known Mr Rs 
personal details when he rang up Barclays. She agreed Barclays had made an error by not 
blocking the internet banking, but she thought £50 was fair for that, as Barclays had blocked 
the balance transfer and there had been no financial loss.
Mr R didnt agree. He said it seemed a whitewash, and he said he still wasnt clear how the 
fraudster had been able simply to call Barclays and change his details. He said that given 
the history of fraudulent activity, he felt Barclays should have been more diligent, and he 
couldnt accept there hadnt been a data breach. He also said Barclays had been very slow 
to respond, and in some cases had failed to reply at all to his correspondence.
The investigator replied that Barclays wouldnt be able to explain how Mr Rs details had 
been compromised, as it wasnt responsible for giving away any of his personal information. 
The fraudster had already known the details and passed security during the calls. She 
suggested Mr R might have clicked a link in a text message or email and input his details, or 
given information to a suspicious caller.Mr R said he was insulted by the investigators insinuation that hed compromised the 
security of his account. Hed never clicked on links, or provided details to a caller, and he 
was more than aware of how to maintain a secure account. He asked whether Barclays had 
provided any evidence about what security questions it had asked, and asked about the call 
recording. Also, having told Barclays that the online facility had been set up by the fraudster, 
it still took Barclays more than three months to delete the online access to Mr Rs account, 
during which time he kept getting notifications that his statement was available online. This 
failure and the security breach had caused him much anxiety, and hed had to close the 
account, which was much to his detriment. 
Mr R asked for an ombudsmans decision. He also asked for the recording of the fraudsters 
call to Barclays. The investigator asked Barclays for the call recordings, but Barclays wasnt 
willing to allow Mr R to have these under the data protection GDPR rules.
Mr R also said that although hed received confirmation that his account had been closed on 
24 March, he was still (late July 2022) receiving messages from Barclays saying his 
statement was available online. The investigator asked Barclays about this, and Barclays 
replied that when the account was closed on 24 March, there had been £50 credit on the 
account from its compensation payment. On 11 July it had sent this as a cheque to Mr R, 
which would have generated a statement. Barclays said Mr R might receive a further 
statement showing a nil balance  and it said it allowed access to an account online for up to 
60 days after closure.
Mr Rs complaint was referred to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, as I had come to a different conclusion from 
the investigator. Our process in such instances is for a Provisional Decision to be issued, so 
that both parties have an opportunity to comment before a Final Decision. Before reaching 
my conclusions, I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what would 
be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I said that I was sympathetic to Mr R for having been a victim of fraud. I could 
understand that hed have been worried and upset by what happened, especially as there 
were repeated attempts. Unfortunately, frauds do happen, and they are upsetting in 
themselves. I explained that my role is to determine whether Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably in this situation.
Security
I accepted that Mr R was careful about security, and I didnt agree with our investigator when 
she said it might have been that hed clicked a link, input his details, or given information to a 
suspicious caller. I didnt just base that on his recent assurances, but I could see that when 
he first received a voice message on 3 November, he took the sensible precaution of 
phoning Barclays not on the number left on the message, but on the number on the back of 
his card. He also checked his statements carefully, as evidenced by the fact that he 
repeatedly asked for these. So I thought it was unlikely that Mr R would have done any of 
the things suggested by the investigator.
Similarly, however, Id seen no evidence that Barclays committed any data breach by 
disclosing Mr Rs security information to a fraudster. Sadly, there are many fraudsters who 
do obtain an individuals data, and its not always possible to find out how clever fraudsters 
have done so.  I also accepted that it was because of GDPR regulations that Barclays didnt disclose, either 
to Mr R or to this service, the full information about the fraudulent calls including what 
security information the fraudster passed. I appreciated Mr Rs frustration about this, but 
Barclays had said that the fraudster would have provided Mr Rs personal details. When I 
dont have full evidence on any issue, I take my decision on what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened. Here, I considered it was most likely that the fraudster did give 
correct answers to the security questions. In those circumstances Barclays didnt do 
anything wrong in that respect.
Barclays actions after the first fraud attempt
After it became clear on 25 November that there had been attempted fraud on Mr Rs 
account, Barclays didnt properly block the online facility which had been set up at the 
fraudsters request. This meant that the online facility, and the mobile banking app, remained 
accessible for the fraudster. This resulted in the fraudsters further attempts against Mr Rs 
account, with the phone number being changed on 15 December and the attempted balance 
transfer on 16 December.   
Barclays systems did block the attempted £4,650 balance transfer on 16 December. So 
there was no financial loss. However, the further attempts against Mr Rs account did lead to 
increased distress and inconvenience for Mr R.
After the fraudsters December attempts against Mr Rs account, Barclays still didnt then 
fully block the online facility which had made that possible. That was evidenced by the 
messages which Mr R continued to receive. These continued not only in the first three 
months of 2022 up to closure on 24 March, but even in late July 2022.  Barclays had 
explained why there was still activity on the account then, because of the outstanding £50 
compensation payment  but that didnt explain why online access was still in place, when 
the online facility had only been requested by the fraudster, and this was one of Mr Rs 
complaint points. 
Barclays should have properly removed all online facility when the fraud came to light on 25 
November. It accepted that it didnt do so, which enabled the further attempts on 15 and 16 
December. But even then, the evidence indicates that the online facility wasnt properly 
removed. I considered the repeated failure to remove the online facility was a significant 
failing by Barclays in the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint.
Barclays customer service
Complaints which are solely about how a financial business conducts its complaint handling 
falls outside our jurisdiction under the rules set for this service by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Here, however, the way Barclays handled Mr Rs complaint relates to how it 
administered its business in providing the financial service. So I considered that I could look 
at the customer service which Barclays provided to Mr R.
I could see that Mr R requested a paper copy of his statement on multiple occasions. The 
fact that the November statement hadnt turned up was the reason he rang Barclays on 25 
November, which led to the discovery of the fraud. I could also see that, in Barclays final 
response letter on 26 January, it said it had sent the November statement and new PIN, and 
once issued, these were in the hands of the postal service. Certainly mail does sometimes 
go missing, but Mr R also didnt receive his December or January statements  and as Ive 
set out above, in early 2022 was still getting emails saying his online statements were ready, 
when hed wanted paper ones all along.I noted that Barclays didnt reply to Mr Rs 27 November letter, which he said hed sent for by 
Signed For mail. I was also surprised that Barclays didnt contact Mr R about the 16 
December attempted balance transfer until a week later, on 23 December. Also, Mr R wrote 
to Barclays on 15 February, about the fact he was still getting emails saying his statements 
were available online, and asking to close the account as a result of what had happened. 
Hed received no reply by the time he wrote again on 18 March. So Mr R had to close the 
account by phone. Although the account was closed on 24 March, he still had frustration 
over the next few months when he continued to receive messages to look at his account 
online. In the circumstances of this case, where the unwanted online facility had been 
requested by the fraudster, this would have been particularly galling.
So I agreed with Mr R that Barclays customer service in sorting out the fraud was poor.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
Taking into account all the factors Ive set out above, I considered a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation for Barclays to pay Mr R would be £250. I said that I intended to 
uphold Mr Rs complaint and to order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr R a total of £250 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  As it had paid him £50 already, that would 
leave a further £200 to pay.  
Responses to my provisional decision
Barclays accepted the provisional decision, and said it was willing to pay Mr R the additional 
£200, making £250 in all.
Mr R also accepted the provisional decision. He said he was pleased that the provisional 
decision was to uphold his complaint. He said he was a little disappointed that Barclays 
hadnt revealed the full story about how his account had been hacked, and he thought it was 
very poor that it didnt let him have the recordings of the fraudsters call, citing GDPR.  Mr R 
said that what hed been after all along was an explanation, and to highlight what he 
considered to be security failings by Barclaycard which put all cardholders at risk. 
Mr R said he didnt have any further evidence and would abide by the decision as hed now 
like to draw a line under the event.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that Mr R would have liked to know full details about how his account had 
been hacked. I dont have that information  and sadly its often the case that its not 
possible for anyone to know how any particular account has been hacked by very skilful 
fraudsters. I do realise this is frustrating, but unfortunately Mr R is by no means the only 
person in this position, and not just in relation to Barclays.
Having reconsidered the evidence, and in the light of both sides responses to my provisional 
decision, I consider that my provisional decision was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Rs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint.I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr R a total of £250 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.  As it has paid him £50 already, that leaves a further £200 to pay.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman