DRN-2648309
The complaint
Mr L complains Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd unfairly declined his claim for accidental 
damage under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr Ls kitchen was damaged by a chemical spillage. This had been caused by 
two strong acids which had fallen from a window ledge and kitchen worktop. Mr L attempted 
to dilute the acid with water and clean the services, but he then had to leave the property, 
and wasnt able to return for around a week.
When he returned, he made a claim for the damage caused. Accredited declined the claim, it 
said he had breached a number of policy terms. It said Mr L hadnt taken reasonable care to 
prevent damage to his property, and so his claim was excluded under the policy.
Unhappy with its response, Mr L complained to our service. Our investigator didnt think 
Accredited had acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
Mr L asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said his method of trying to clean 
up the acid was reasonable. And he had taken reasonable care to prevent damage. He 
provided personal reasons why he was away from the property for some time after the 
damage happened. 
As Mr L didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Accredited to cover the claim, Ive explained why 
below.
Accredited has relied on a number of policy terms to decline the claim. Its pointed to its 
exclusions for gradual deterioration, misuse and reasonable care. Ive considered whether 
its fair to rely on each of these.
I dont think Accredited can fairly rely on the gradual damage exclusion to decline the claim. 
Its said Mr L didnt clean up all of the acid and left the property for around a week before 
reporting the claim. Whilst this may have made the damage worse, I dont think it means 
there was gradual damage. I consider that even if Mr L had done more thorough clean and 
reported the claim earlier, the kitchen would likely still have been damaged given the 
strength of the substances. 
I also dont think Accredited can rely on the misuse term to decline the claim. Mr L says he 
was using the acids to carry out some work in his garden. I havent seen any evidence he 
was misusing the products  from what I understand they are items commonly used to clean 
brickwork, which Mr L was doing.
Mr Ls policy also says you must take all reasonable steps to prevent accidents, injury or 
damage. It hasnt specifically outlined how Mr L has breached this. But I assume its 
referring to the fact that Mr L hadnt taken reasonable steps to prevent damage by storing 
the acid temporarily in the kitchen.  
hen considering a reasonable care term, the appropriate test to use is one of recklessness 
 as set out by the courts in Sofi v Prudential. This means if an insurer wants to decline a 
claim for lack of reasonable care, the claimant (so in this case Mr L) needs to have acted in 
a way that amounted to recklessness. Meaning he recognised a risk but took it anyway by 
taking no measures to avoid it, or measures he knew to be inadequate.
Mr L says he was using the acids in his garden. He said he put both containers inside 
through a window, whilst he stood outside. He says he put one on a window ledge, and one 
on the kitchen worktop. 
When he returned to the kitchen a short time later, they had both fallen and spilled their 
contents over a large portion of the kitchen. He said his intention was to put the two items 
back in the garage, where he usually stored them. He also said hes familiar with the 
contents and the handling of such substances, and wore protective equipment whilst 
handling them. His statement also says he was aware the substances could cause damage 
to the kitchen. 
Ive considered if Mr L took measures he knew to be inadequate to prevent damage. And on 
balance, I think he did. Ive looked at the window ledge he says one of the substances was 
left on. In Mr Ls statements, hes said the container was 5 or 10 litres. This seems to be a 
substantial size container to place on a relatively narrow window ledge. And Mr Ls 
statement says the top was not on this container. Given what he knew of the substances I 
think hed probably have known these measures were inadequate to prevent the risk of 
damage.
After bringing the complaint to this service, Mr L has said the tops had been fitted correctly 
and he believes the force of the fall caused them to open. But Im more persuaded by the 
account he gave to Accredited at the time of his witness statement, which is signed by Mr L, 
with his annotations. 
Mr L has provided reasons why he wasnt in his property for some time after the damage 
happened, but I dont think thats the central issue here. Overall, Im satisfied Accredited can 
rely on its reasonable care term to decline Mr Ls claim. 
Mr L has also complained about the length of time it took Accredited to respond to his claim, 
and the toll this has taken on his wellbeing. It seems Accredited had an initial review of the 
claim, but wanted to carry out further investigations. I consider it was reasonable for it to do 
so, given the nature of the claim. And whilst it took a few months for the outcome to be 
finalised, I dont think Accredited caused unreasonable delays. So I dont think it needs to 
compensate Mr L for its handling of the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman