DRN-3795672
The complaint
Mrs T complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent her losing 
money to a scam in 2016. 
Mrs T has used a representative to bring her complaint. But, for ease of reading, Ill mostly 
only refer to Mrs T herself. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Mrs T was approached by a scammer on 
social media who befriended her. Mrs Ts complaint form records that she was asked to 
send money to help her friend pay for expensive medical bills for his daughter. 
Ultimately Mrs T sent two international payments, one for £4,500 and another for £5,000 
from a Co-op Bank branch in April 2016. Mrs T later realised shed been the victim of a scam 
when a toy shed sent to the address the scammer had provided was returned as the 
address was unknown. She reported the scam to Co-op Bank in June 2016. Co-op Bank 
contacted the international beneficiary bank but were told that no funds remained to be 
returned. In 2022, Mrs T made her complaint via our service. Co-op Bank maintained that 
theyd done nothing wrong.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
Mrs T disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mrs T, so Ill explain why. 
Mrs T has told our service that she made the payments in the belief that the scammer 
needed help with his daughters medical bills. But when reporting the scam back in 2016, 
she told Co-op Bank that the scammer asked for money for school uniforms and to fund a 
house move. Mrs T also told our service that shed been in contact with the scammer for two 
months before she was asked for money and again, at the time of reporting the matter she 
said something different  that being that shed known the scammer for only a month. 
Whilst I dont doubt Mrs Ts integrity, these inconsistencies make it difficult for me to place a 
great deal of weight on her testimony as being credible and reliable evidence. I also have to 
keep in mind that Mrs T made her complaint nearly six years after the events in question and 
so it is understandable that her memory may have faded over time. 
I must also keep in mind that as scammers have become more cunning and devious the 
banking industry too has changed. It wouldnt be fair for me to hold Co-op Bank to todays 
standards in relation to events that took place in 2016. Some of the things that Mrs T has 
referenced in her complaint, including the British Standards Institutes (BSI) PAS 17271 
(2017)  Protecting Customers from Financial Harm from Fraud Code, werent in place in 
2016. Similarly, the Banking Protocol was not formalised until after all the relevant payments 
had been made. This isnt to say that Co-op Bank didnt have obligations at the time to try to 
protect their customers from financial harm due to fraud and scams, but Im providing 
context to my considerations. 
The evidence shows that in the year prior to the scam Mrs T had made a payment from her 
account of over £15,000 as well as internal transfers within Co-op Bank of both £20,000 and 
£30,000. Against this background, I dont think payments of £4,500 and £5,000 would have 
appeared as exceptionally unusual. However, I accept that Mrs T doesnt appear to have 
commonly sent international payments. And with the payments being instructed in branch, I 
would have expected Co-op Bank to have made proportionate checks, prior to processing 
the payments. 
There is no conclusive evidence of what was said in branch at the times the payments were 
made. Mrs T says she doesnt remember being asked any questions. But given the nature of 
the scam, including the friendship and trust that had built between Mrs T and the scammer, I 
dont think a level of questioning that reasonably could have been expected in 2016, would 
have uncovered the scam. Mrs T has described how she was in daily contact with the 
scammer for an extended period of time. And that she trusted him believing they had a good, 
genuine friendship. I agree with our Investigator that I dont think Mrs T would have changed 
her mind about sending the payments in response to anything that Co-op Bank could have 
been expected to have said at the time. 
Once Mrs T reported the scam, I can see that Co-op Bank contacted the beneficiary bank. 
This was done promptly and its unfortunate that it didnt result in the recovery of any funds. 
Mrs T has also said that she was vulnerable at the time, due to her health. Co-op Bank said 
they didnt know about this until after the payments relevant to this complaint had been 
made. And had they been informed they would have made reasonable adjustments. I think 
this is fair and I dont think Co-op Bank ought to have done more at the time. Ive not seen 
evidence to persuade me that they ought to have ascertained Mrs T was vulnerable and 
didnt. 
Im of course sorry to hear that Mrs T lost money to a scammer in this way. And I appreciate 
she feels let down by Co-op Bank. But as I dont think Co-op Bank provided poor service or 
are responsible for any failures that either caused the loss or hindered its recovery, Im not 
going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Richard AnnandaleOmbudsman