DRN-2903872
The complaint
Miss L complains that Santander UK Plc closed her savings account and withdrew money 
from that account without her consent and knowledge.
What happened
Miss L held an instant savings account, which she opened in November 1994 with a balance 
of £100. This account was originally provided by another bank, but it was later taken over by 
Santander.
Miss L said she used to regularly fund her savings account and had a passbook to assist 
with making and recording credits into and withdrawals from the account. She said that she 
made her last deposit into the account on 14 May 2005. At that time, the balance recorded 
on Miss Ls passbook was £5053.99.
Miss L said she didnt access her instant saver account after 14 May 2005 and, as the years 
went on, she forgot about the account. However, in 2019, Miss L said she found her 
passbook and saw that it was showing a balance of over £5000. At that time, Miss L was 
experiencing financial hardship. So, she decided to visit a Santander branch in order to 
withdraw some funds. 
When Miss L spoke with Santander staff in branch, she was informed that her instant saver 
account had been closed on 13 June 2006. She was also told that a new savings account 
had been opened that day into which around £50 had been deposited.
Miss L refuted that she was aware or involved in the closure of her instant saver account. 
And she denied opening a new account the same day. She said her mobility had been 
severely impaired from October 2005 for around 11 months, which meant it was unlikely that 
shed have been able to attend a branch to transact on her account. And she said she knew 
she hadnt been to a branch on 13 June 2006 as this was a relatives birthday. So, Miss L 
complained to Santander that her money had been appropriated and she requested its 
return.
After Santander investigated Miss Ls complaint, it stated that it was only able to provide 
limited information because it only held financial records for six years. And it said this made 
it difficult to fully investigate the specifics of how Miss Ls instant saver account came to be 
closed in 2006. But it said, based on the records it held, it was able to confirm that the new 
saver account had been opened on the day the previous one had been closed. It therefore 
didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint or identify any errors in how it had dealt with her accounts.
Being dissatisfied with Santanders response to her complaint, Miss L referred it to our 
service. Our investigator assessed the evidence provided by Miss L and Santander. But she 
didnt think Santander needed to do anything more here. She explained that banks arent 
required to retain records for longer than six years. And she couldnt conclude, on the 
available evidence, that Santander had made a mistake or treated Miss L unfairly. But Miss 
L disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss L experienced here. Shes explained why the 
fund shed been saving would have provided great assistance to her at this time in her life. 
And I can see shes suffered some upset and inconvenience in dealing with Santander. 
However, my role is to assess whether I think Santander made a mistake, or treated Miss L 
unfairly, in how it dealt with her concerns about her account balance such that it needs to 
now put things right.  
 
I can see that Miss L has provided evidence together with very detailed submissions about 
her complaint. I want to assure her Ive read and considered everything that both she and 
Santander have sent when reaching my decision. I havent referred to all the points Miss L 
has raised as Ive focused on what I feel are the key issues of this case. I hope Miss L wont 
take that as a discourtesy; my approach reflects the informal nature of our service.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Santander has said that Miss Ls account was closed in June 2006. That was over 15 years 
ago. So, Id like to explain at the outset that, prior to this complaint reaching me, our 
investigator issued her view about why she was persuaded that Miss Ls concerns werent 
time barred. I can see that Santander accepted our investigators view. So, Im satisfied our 
service has jurisdiction to consider this complaint. 
Miss L has denied closing her instant saver account and opening a new one. Shes also 
asserted that the funds showing in her passbook on 14 May 2005 have been appropriated 
without her consent and knowledge by Santander. 
Miss L has asked our service to direct Santander to repay the last sum recorded in the 
passbook. But for me to reach a conclusion that Santander should do that, Id need to be 
satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that it made an error and that it was responsible for 
the loss of the relevant funds. 
Ive considered the evidence Miss L provided our service, which illustrates her health and 
mobility issues from October 2005 onwards. Ive also seen her passbook showing that her 
account balance, on 14 May 2005, was £5053.99.
Santander has provided our service with reliable evidence in the form of business records, 
which show that Miss Ls instant saver account was opened on 12 November 1994 and 
closed on 3 June 2006. These records also show that a new account was opened in Miss Ls 
name on the date the previous account had closed and funded with around £50. Based on 
the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Miss Ls instant saver account was closed at the time 
Santander said it was. Im also persuaded that a new account was opened in Miss Ls name 
on the same day.
Ive also seen copies of statements and account summaries dating from 2014 onwards, 
which Santander asserts were provided to Miss L. These relate to the new saver account and show the balance was hovering at just over £50. Miss L claims not to have received any 
of these documents.
The passbook in Miss Ls name shows the last the last recorded receipt to the account was 
£100 on 14 May 2005. At that time the account balance stood at £5053.99. But the fact that 
Miss L is still in receipt of her passbook isnt evidence that she didnt withdraw the funds in 
her account. I say this because its possible for an account holder to withdraw funds and/or 
close their account in the absence of their passbook if they can produce satisfactory proof of 
identification. And that could be what happened here, which might explain why the passbook 
balance wasnt updated. This means Im unable to safely infer that, because a balance is 
showing in the passbook, the money remains outstanding and is owed to Miss L.  
Miss L has told our service that her health in June 2006 restricted her mobility and prevented 
her from attending a branch. Shes also said she was otherwise engaged on the date her 
account closed as it was a relatives birthday. But a considerable period of time has elapsed 
since Miss Ls account was closed. And, due to the passage of time, it may be that Miss L 
doesnt recall withdrawing the funds in her saver account, closing that account and then 
opening a new one.
I think its unlikely that anyone, other than Miss L, would have opened a new instant saver 
account in June 2006. I say this because identification would need to have been produced to 
open an account as verification checks would have been necessary. And the account was 
funded the same day with around £50. Im not persuaded that a third party would have been 
able to fund an account in Miss Ls name without her permission or knowledge at the same 
time the account was opened  theyd have needed her identification documents to do so.
I can appreciate that Miss L would want to have sight of account closure and opening 
documentation to show who closed and opened the saver accounts in her name. But 
Santander has already explained, in its response to Miss Ls complaint that it doesnt retain 
records for more than six years. Its told Miss L, and our service, that this is the reason it 
cant provide any further assistance. 
I understand why Miss L might feel that Santander should be able to assist her further with 
her enquiries about her saver accounts. But Im not persuaded that expecting Santander to 
have records from June 2006 is a fair or reasonable expectation. Ill explain why.
Santander is only required to have six years worth of records. So, when Miss Ls account 
was closed in June 2006 Id only expect it to have retained records of that account until June 
2012. With this in mind, it isnt fair to say that Santander should be in a position to have 
records that show communication, or other documentation, relating to the closure of Miss Ls 
instant saver account or the opening of the newer saver account.
I recognise that Miss L feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything shes said. But I havent seen enough evidence to enable me 
to safely conclude that Santander made an error. Im therefore not going to ask it to do 
anymore here. 
I realise Miss L will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Santander informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help 
Miss L any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman