DRN-4077052
The complaint
Mr I complains about Domestic and General Insurance Limited (D&G) who he said breached 
his data, under his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr I purchased an appliance and also purchased insurance to cover it. Mr I said that his 
neighbour had told him that he had received calls and emails from D&G regarding his plan. 
Mr I said that he contacted D&G to complain. He also cancelled his policy as he said that 
this data breach had happened before. 
D&G denied making any calls to any unauthorised third party, regarding Mr Is plan. It also 
said that there were data protection checks carried out at the beginning of each call, to 
ensure that no information was disclosed to an unauthorised party. In addition, it said that 
the only email address on file that it had, was the same email address that Mr I had given 
them. So, it said that there were no errors made or data breached. 
D&G maintained its position in the final response to Mr I. And as Mr I was given his referral 
rights, he referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that there was no evidence that D&G contacted anyone else apart from Mr I about his 
plan. She said that D&Gs call structure is set up in such a way that the caller would need to 
correctly answer security questions specific to their personal details. She felt that D&G 
hadnt breached Mr Is data. 
D&G accepted the view. Mr I did not. Mr I provided further evidence regarding the 
information sent to him via the third party. And, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
My findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr I, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I have considered both partys comments and I think the main issue here is whether D&G 
breached Mr Is data via email as well as calls. 
I have been provided with call recordings between Mr I and D&G. I note that each call 
recording Mr I was taken through several security questions, such as confirming his full 
name, address including post code and so on. All of which were passed. Had the security 
questions not been passed, D&G wouldnt have continued with the call. 
Further, D&G has provided evidence to show that no calls were made to anyone other than 
Mr I. And that there were no neighbouring policyholders with the same surname as Mr I that 
it wouldve contacted, or had a reason to contact. And in one of the calls, the call handler 
informed the caller that he needed details before he could deal with any issue. 
Mr I has provided some information that he believes shows that D&G breached his data. But 
having looked into this further, I have found that the number that Mr I provided as the 
number he was called on, comes up as a scam number that is purporting to be D&G.  
Further the plan details are for a different appliance.
D&G were forwarded the information that Mr I had provided. It raised further questions 
regarding what telephone number the calls were made to. D&G were provided with the 
details of the phone number, which Mr I said was the third partys number. D&G searched 
the number through its system and found that there was no record of the number on its 
system. It said that this meant that it hadnt called the number.  
Mr I hasnt provided me with enough information to suggest that D&G had breached his 
data. And having reviewed the evidence before me, Im satisfied that D&G didnt 
communicate in any way with the third party. Accordingly, I cant reasonably ask D&G to do 
anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman