DRN-2888965
The complaint
Mr C complains that, in 2009, Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a 
packaged bank account (PBA). 
What happened
Mr C opened a bank account with Bank of Scotland in 2009. He says hed had difficulty 
finding a bank that would allow him to open an account, but that Halifax accepted his 
application. He applied online. He says that he soon realised money was being taken from 
his account. When he asked about this, he was told it was an account fee, and he wasnt 
advised that the account was unsuitable for him. 
The PBA at the time cost £12.50 a day and the benefits included insurance for a mobile 
phone, travel, and car breakdown; and a potential interest-free overdraft. 
Mr C says that, when he applied online, he wasnt given the choice of a fee-free account and 
was just directed to the PBA. He says the benefits that came with the account were no use 
to him and he didnt know about them  he says he took out his own separate breakdown 
insurance and mobile phone insurance. 
Bank of Scotland didnt agree that it had mis-sold the PBA to Mr C. It said he had applied 
online and so had made his own choice about taking the account. But it did look at how 
useful the account had been to Mr C. It decided it hadnt been suitable for his needs and so, 
whilst denying it had mis-sold the PBA, it offered to refund the fees Mr C had paid. 
Mr C was not happy with this. He said that Bank of Scotland should admit that it had mis-
sold the account. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said she thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr C didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
When I look at a complaint like this, I decide whether the bank mis-sold the account. If I 
decide it did, I then would normally require the bank to put its customer back in the 
position theyd have been, as if no mis-sale had happened. Typically, this means I tell the 
bank to refund all the fees, and to pay interest on the fees from the date they were paid 
until the date the bank refunds them. 
In this case, the bank has already decided it would be fair to refund the fees. But it hasnt 
offered to pay interest on top of that. 
So the main remaining question for me is whether Bank of Scotland should pay interest 
on top of refunding the fees. I would only consider requiring this if I found that the PBA 
had been mis-sold. 
I dont have strong evidence that it was mis-sold. 
First, this all happened about 12 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt 
remember the details of an event that long ago. So it may not be fair for me to rely just on 
what they now remember. 
And, from what we know of Bank of Scotlands online application processes at the time, I 
think its very likely that information was given about the different accounts available  
including the availability of a free account. Also, its very likely the online process made 
reasonably clear that there was a monthly fee and that there were several benefits that 
came with the account. It would then have been a matter for Mr C to decide whether the 
account was suitable for him. 
Its possible that the information could have been presented more clearly. But I think at 
least the basic information would have been there for Mr C to make his choice. Hes said 
that hed faced difficulty getting other banks to offer him an account, because of his credit 
rating. So its possible he believed he had to take whatever Bank of Scotland was offering 
him (although this may also have meant he didnt look in detail at the information provided 
during the online process).  But I also think its likely hed have know that nearly all the 
main banks offered fee-free bank accounts. 
So, I cant see that its likely that different information would have changed what Mr C 
chose. I cant, of course, be sure of this  but I do have to decide what is most likely, 
taking into account the evidence including Mr Cs circumstances at the time.
Overall I dont have good evidence that the bank account was mis-sold. I think that Bank 
of Scotland has been fair in the way it has proposed to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman