DRN-3969088
The complaint
Mr R complains about a declined claim he made on his home emergency insurance policy 
with Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA).
IPA are the underwriters (the insurers) of the relevant section of the policy being complained 
about here. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of their agents. As IPA have 
accepted they are accountable for the actions of their appointed agents, in my decision, any 
reference to IPA includes the actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr R and IPA. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
In July 2022, Mr R contacted IPA as he was having some issues with his boiler. An engineer 
was sent out to see the boiler. The engineer found that a new diverter valve and bypass 
rings were needed. 
IPA told Mr R that due to the age of the boiler and the likely cost of a repair they were going 
to decline the claim. Mr R felt that IPA should pay out up to the policy limit of £1,500.
He was unhappy and raised a complaint. IPA didnt uphold the complaint and Mr R referred 
it to our Service for an independent review. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. As Mr R 
remained unhappy, his complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
Have IPA fairly and reasonably considered the claim in line with the policy terms?
Its important to state here that this policy didnt have a beyond economical repair (BER) 
limitation or exclusion. I state this because from the claim notes there was a suggestion 
(initially) that this was the reason the claim was declined and IPA have also referred to BER 
in their final response letter.
IPA have since clarified that the reason the claim was declined was because of the following 
exclusion:
You must take all reasonable precautions to prevent an Emergency. This insurance 
does not cover normal day-to-day maintenance at your property. You must ensure 
that it is undertaken and that your property is in good condition. Nor does it pay for 
replacing items that wear out over a period of time.
Both parties disagree on this point. IPA said that photos of the boiler showed it to be in a 
poor condition with signs of rust from previous leaks and say that by Mr R not completing 
the manufacturer recommended services, they would deem the failure and poor condition to 
have been avoidable (if more care had been taken).
Mr R on the other hand has pointed to policy renewal correspondence from 2017 which 
stated that boilers over 15 years old were now covered and the requirement for a yearly 
service had been removed. Based on what Mr R has told us, the most recent service for the 
boiler took place before the COVID-19 pandemic started in March 2020 - that was over two 
years before this claim was made. 
Whilst I can understand the pandemic and associated restrictions may have limited 
opportunities for a service to be carried out, no supporting evidence has been provided 
either of regular services prior to the pandemic. I note that IPA offered Mr R the opportunity 
to provide any supporting information related to the service history when they spoke to him 
on 18 July 2022 and none has been provided to our Service either when bringing this 
complaint.
Returning to the 2017 renewal correspondence, I dont find that in this specific complaint, the 
removal of the requirement for a yearly service absolved Mr R of all responsibility to take 
reasonable steps to maintain his boiler in good working order.
The general intention of this type of home emergency insurance cover is to respond to 
sudden and unexpected events that may occur with a boiler. Its not intended as general 
maintenance or wear and tear cover  and this is reflected in the policy terms. Ive noted that 
evidence of prior leaks was recorded by the engineer who visited and in claim notes from 
January 2021. Whilst Mr R disputes that there were leaks and has pointed out that any leaks 
wouldve been easily noticeable given the location of the boiler, the photos provided by IPA 
support that there were leaks at some point prior to the engineer being called out in July 
2022. 
Mr R was also given an opportunity to provide photographs of the boiler and surrounding 
area (before and after our Investigators assessment) to counter what IPA have said - but Im 
less persuaded by those photos (provided by Mr R) as theyre either not clear and/or dont 
support the position hes taken here. Our investigator pointed this out to Mr R but no further 
submissions were made.
For balance, Ive kept in mind that this boiler was relatively old - at 22 years. This is typically 
longer than the expected lifespan of a boiler so it is to be reasonably expected that the 
general condition of a boiler that was in regular use would have decreased over time - 
meaning that regular services would be more important. Based on the photo of the boiler 
serial number provided, Ive identified the relevant user manual for this boiler, and the 
manufacturer states:
1. For reasons of safety and economy, it is recommended that the boiler is serviced 
annually. Servicing must be performed by a competent person.
Mr R has said he would be happy for another engineers opinion as he felt the original 
engineers opinion was inaccurate. Hes also referred to the opinion of another engineer who 
felt that the boiler was in good condition - but no supporting evidence has been provided, so 
Im limited with regards to the weight I can place on such a comment. Having carefully considered all of the evidence, on balance, Im satisfied that IPA have fairly 
considered this claim before declining it in line with the policy terms. 
Have IPA treated Mr R fairly and reasonably overall?
Mr R has referred to the engineers comments during the visit about not wanting to get the 
repair job. 
Having considered the available evidence, on balance, Im satisfied that there was likely 
nothing untoward intended or that this has materially impacted the claim here. I find it more 
likely than not such a comment wouldve been said in passing or as a joke. Ultimately, it was 
the decision of IPA to decline the claim  not the engineer.
Whilst my decision will disappoint Mr R, it brings to an end our Services involvement in 
trying to informally resolve his dispute with IPA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman