DRN-1054120
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about the level of compensation offered by Aviva Insurance  Limited 
(Aviva), in respect of poor service and mis-selling in relation to her contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs W had an existing policy with Aviva which started on 1 July 2014. She purchased a 
painting in October 2014 and called Aviva to add it her policy as a specified item which they 
did. She purchased another painting in December 2014 and added this also. 
Aviva sent out renewal documents on 30 May 2015. Mrs W called Aviva on 1 June 2015 to 
advise an increase in the value of her paintings and also queried some other points about 
her policy. 
Due to this increase in value Avivas policy required Mrs Ws home to have a monitored 
burglar alarm system. But Avivas call handler didnt tell Mrs W this. Mrs Ws home did have 
an alarm but not a monitored system. 
Aviva issued revised a renewal document via the online system the next day reflecting the 
increased value, which did contain the new requirement about the alarm as condition of the 
policy. This was on the fourth page of the renewal document.
Mrs W says she didnt notice this and didnt notice it on subsequent renewals. Mrs W says 
there is a lot of information at renewal and it is hard to access with it being online. She felt as 
nothing had changed at her end there was no reason for her to review the renewal 
documents in detail. In May 2019 Mrs W received her renewal documentation and did notice 
the requirement about the alarm system. 
Mrs W contacted Aviva who confirmed the requirement and advised the paintings werent 
covered for theft without a monitored alarm. Mrs W was about to go on holiday so she 
arranged separate insurance for the paintings. She also decided not to renew the Aviva 
insurance and arranged this elsewhere.
Mrs W wasnt happy and felt she been mis-sold the policy and had paid for insurance that 
wouldnt have paid out if she had claimed. She says an email sent by Aviva on 28 May 
proves this. Mrs W felt that all premiums charged in respect of the paintings, some £579 
should be refunded. 
Aviva looked into her complaint. They agreed that when Mrs W called to increase the value 
of the paintings she wasnt told about the alarm requirement. They also agreed that she 
should have been. Aviva said that even though the requirement had been noted on each 
renewal they would have paid if a claim had been made in view of their original error.
Aviva offered her £100 in compensation for the poor service. Mrs W said this wasnt enough 
as she didnt believe Aviva would have paid a claim. Aviva increased its offer to £150. Mrs W 
rejected this. She was also unhappy that Aviva sent her encrypted email communications 
which she found inconvenient. Mrs W referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold 
her complaint. He accepted what Aviva said about covering the paintings for theft as Aviva 
accepted its error. The paintings were covered for other risks so the premium charged was 
not just for theft cover. He thought that the offer of £150 compensation for the inconvenience 
was fair.         
Mrs W disagreed saying Aviva wouldnt have paid a claim and the additional premiums for 
the painting should be repaid, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I wont be upholding the 
complaint.
I know how strongly Mrs W feels about what has happened and Ive set out why I have come 
to my decision below.
Encrypted emails
Mrs W complained that Aviva sent her information by encrypted email and she didnt want 
emails to be encrypted. I note they sent her unencrypted communication subsequently, but 
had advised that sometimes automated communications would still be encrypted as this was 
the default process on their systems. 
I dont think anyone finds encryption convenient, especially if opening emails on 
smartphones, but businesses are in a difficult position with obligations to safeguard personal 
data. For these reasons using encryption is now standard practice for most organisations  
including our service, so I dont think Aviva has acted unreasonably here. 
Mis-sale
Buildings and contents policies are generally fixed term arrangements. 
A renewal invitation is actually an offer of a new fixed term policy on the conditions set out in 
the document. The policyholder is asked to check the details and update any as necessary. 
Any conditions or changes to the policy will also be set out and they are on the Aviva 
documents sent to Mrs W.
It is the policyholders responsibility to check the details and ensure that the policy meets 
their requirements. By accepting the offer and paying the premiums the policyholder enters 
into a contract of insurance on those terms. Mrs W accepts she didnt check these in detail 
and thinks she shouldnt have to. 
Mrs W had contacted Aviva after receiving her renewal documents to advise them of an 
increase in the value of her paintings and also to query other aspects of the cover. So Im 
surprised she didnt check her revised renewal document sent to her in June 2015. If she 
had the issue would have come to light in 2015 rather than 2019.
However, the additional requirement about the alarm was onerous as it could have impacted 
whether a claim would be paid or not. I would expect an insurer to clearly highlight this to the 
customer rather than expecting them to find it in the policy details. Aviva accept that this 
didnt happen and from what is said in their file notes they wouldnt expect the customer to 
find it in the documents.Cover for Theft
Aviva accept they made an error (in not highlighting an onerous condition) and because of 
this say they would have paid a claim for theft. 
Mrs W disputes this and says she paid extra premiums for no cover as Aviva wouldnt have 
paid out. She takes this view based on this extract of an email sent to her by Aviva on 28 
May 2019: 
I have spoken to our underwriters who have re-confirmed that for your policy to cover 
theft and attempted theft you would need to have a burglar alarm system that is the 
subject of a maintenance contract and is put into operation when your household has 
retired for the night and whenever the home is left unattended.
However, Aviva then amended the policy so that the monitored alarm was not required in the 
policy year which ended on 30 June 2019. Aviva say that if there had been a theft claim 
before this they would have honoured it in good faith due to their error.
As a there was no claim we cant prove this one way or another. As such, Mrs W thinks this 
is an empty promise. Especially as by the time Aviva amended the policy shed taken cover 
out elsewhere. So I appreciate why Mrs W was annoyed by this. 
However given the onerous nature of the condition added to the policy, had there been a 
claim which Aviva didnt pay and a complaint about that come to our service, I would expect 
that we would have held Aviva liable. 
What there isnt any doubt about is that Mrs Ws paintings were insured for other risks such 
as flood and fire damage so the premium charged was not solely for insurance against theft. 
As such I wouldnt think refunding the entire premium paid would be fair and reasonable 
even if Aviva had said it wouldnt have paid a theft claim. 
Aviva say they would have covered a theft claim. And, if they refused, our service would 
have directed them to pay it. So as the policy otherwise provided what Mrs W required I 
dont think the policy was mis-sold.
I agree she was inconvenienced both by the original misinformation and in needing to 
arrange specific insurance for the paintings at short notice before her holiday. I think Avivas 
offer of £150 is fair and reasonable compensation for the inconvenience she suffered and 
wont be asking Aviva to do more than this.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited. If they 
have not already done so I direct Aviva to pay the £150 compensation offered to Mrs W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman