DRN-3828335
The complaint
Mr S and Miss W have complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined a claim 
under their home insurance policy.
I will normally only refer to Miss W as she dealt with the complaint.
What happened
Miss W contacted QIC when a polytunnel in her garden was damaged during a storm. QIC 
initially accepted the claim. However, it then declined it because it said a polytunnel wasnt a 
permanent structure, so it wasnt covered by the policy.
When Miss W complained, QIC maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Miss W 
complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the evidence 
provided by Miss W showed the polytunnel was in a fixed position. So, he said QIC had 
incorrectly applied the policy wording. He said QIC should reassess the claim against the 
remaining policy terms and conditions.
As QIC didnt reply to our investigator, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The policy said it covered:
Detached garages, sheds, greenhouses, summer houses and other permanent structures 
set apart from the main building which you live in and which are used for domestic or 
business administration purposes.
But that it didnt cover: any inflatable or non permanent structure.
QIC declined the claim because it said a polytunnel was a temporary structure. So, Ive 
thought about whether that was fair. QIC pointed to some published guidance that described 
polytunnels as temporary structures. Miss W provided evidence of how the polytunnel was 
constructed. This included details of the installation process, which required making 
excavation holes for the foundations and then setting the foundation tubes in concrete. Ive 
also seen a photo of the concrete foundations. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think the polytunnel was fixed permanently in place and that it 
was therefore a permanent structure. On that basis, I think it was unfair for QIC to decline 
the claim. As a result, I uphold this complaint and require QIC to reconsider the claim under 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It should regard the polytunnel as a 
permanent structure.
Putting things right
QIC should regard the polytunnel as a permanent structure and reconsider the claim under 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
QIC Europe Ltd to reconsider the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy, treating the polytunnel as a permanent structure. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman