DRN-2445079
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Standard Life Assurance Limited failed to provide them with 
appropriate advice to protect their mortgage  in November 2000.
What happened
In January 2000 Mr and Mrs H took out a £10,650 25-year interest-only mortgage via a 
different business. Its documentation recommended they consider insurance protection for 
this loan.
In November 2000 Mr and Mrs H contacted Standard Life, by phone, looking for some sort of 
insurance/protection policy. The advisor filled out a fact find which noted the size and term of 
their interest-only mortgage. In this report he notes that Mr and Mrs H said their mortgage 
lender had agreed to an interest-only mortgage as they said their dependents would repay 
the loan on their deaths. However, they are looking for a policy which would pay out £10,000 
if either of them died in the next 20 years.
In his subsequent recommendations letter he reiterated the above information, pointing out 
that Mr and Mrs H had no means of repaying their interest-only mortgage at the end of its 
term but that they did not want advice about suitable mortgage protection. Instead, they 
merely wanted a policy offering £10,000 cover for 20 years only. He said he had encouraged 
them to let him review their overall insurance/protection needs but they had declined this. He 
therefore stated the proposed policy did not necessarily meet what he considered to be their 
full needs.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs H complained to Standard Life, saying they were not told the policy 
would lapse after 10 (in practice 20) years; instead, that they wouldnt need to keep paying 
premiums but the policy would continue. Although they admit that the paperwork doesnt say 
this, they relied on what the salesman told them at the time. They would never have taken 
out the policy if they were told they wouldnt get any money back.
Standard Life rejected their complaint, saying the advisor had recommended the amount and 
term of life cover they had explicitly requested.
An investigator at this service agreed, noting that the advisor had made clear that the policy 
theyd asked for didnt cover the full extent of the mortgage but that they had declined his 
advice to consider full mortgage protection. 
He said there was no evidence to support their argument that they had been told there would 
be a pay-out (unless they died within the 20 years). He also noted that Mr and Mrs H 
admitted they hadnt read the paperwork, something they were clearly necessary in order to 
check the advisor had recorded their wishes correctly and that the proposed policy was what 
they wanted.
Finally, he noted that Mr and Mrs H had asked why the advisor hadnt considered their need 
to repay the interest-only mortgage at the end of the term but felt this issue had been clearly 
highlighted by the advisor  and it was Mr and Mrs Hs choice not to consider this.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed, and said:
Why would they have asked for a 20-year policy when their mortgage was for 25?
The paperwork did not arrive for some time after they took out the policy - and when 
Mr H had just come out of hospital  and they simply filed it away
While they should have checked the paperwork, surely the business was equally 
responsible? Shouldnt they accept half the blame?
They knew nothing about financial matters so definitely did not tell the salesman they 
want a 20-year term policy; it was up to the advisor to realise they should have taken 
out some form of plan which would pay off the mortgage eventually
The document Standard Life sent recently  referring to you have accepted my 
advice  is different from the original one and seems to have this paragraph added
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and mainly for the same reasons.
In order to uphold this complaint, Id need to see clear evidence that Standard Life definitely 
did something wrong, and I dont believe there is such evidence.
As there is no record available of the phone call discussion back in 2000 its impossible to 
know what was said and discussed. So, while Mr and Mrs H make a number of 
understandable points - why would they ask for a 20-year policy when their mortgage was 
for 25 years?  there is no reason why the salesman would have recommended the shorter 
policy if Mr and Mrs H hadnt mentioned this time period. The longer the policy, the greater 
the commission.
Equally, there is no reason for him not to recommend a comprehensive mortgage protection 
plan unless Mr and Mrs H hadnt said, according to his report, they simply wanted a 20-year 
insurance policy. Indeed, he pointed out that an interest-only mortgage meant they had no 
means of paying off the mortgage at the end of the term.
Crucially, he clearly recorded his understanding of what Mr and Mrs H were looking for and 
spelt this out in his subsequent recommendations letter, including saying that the proposed 
policy was for 20 years only and would only pay out the £10,000 if either of them died during 
this time. 
I fully understand that many/most customers dont read all the small print, terms and 
conditions of a policy or an advisors recommendations, but I do think they have a 
responsibility to check the basic details to ensure they are buying what they want. So, I dont 
agree that Standard Life is equally or partially to blame.
Overall, while I accept that it is very unfortunate that Mr and Mrs H are left with no cover 
going forward, I am relieved to hear that they have paid off their mortgage and so will not be 
left with having to find £10,000 in five years time.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman