DRN-3453246
The complaint
Miss Fs complaint is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) unfairly changed her 
graduate account to a select account.
What happened
Miss F complained to RBS after she was notified by the bank that her graduate account 
would be changed to RBS select account  which meant she wouldnt be entitled to the 
benefits of a graduate account. Miss F thinks RBS changed the account too early and thinks 
she was entitled to another year before the change took place. She also refers to a previous 
complaint this service dealt with that she thinks RBS acted against. Miss F says shes been 
charged interest because of the change and this has caused her financial and health 
problems.
In its response, RBS said it changed Miss Fs account in line with its terms and that the 
previous complaint with this service was unrelated. The bank also offered Miss F further 
support due to her financial circumstances. Remaining unhappy, Miss F asked this service to 
independently review her complaint. Our investigator concluded that RBS had acted fairly 
and in line with its terms.
Miss F didnt agree and asked for a final decision  so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I also think that RBS acted fairly  Ill explain why.
The terms of Miss Fs account say that her graduate account would automatically change to 
a select account two years after Miss F graduates from her course. Miss F thinks this 
shouldve been three years and refers to a previous decision by this service as her basis for 
this. Ive reviewed this decision and I cant see that it provides such a direction. RBS records 
show that Miss F graduated from her course in 2018. So Im satisfied that RBS acted in 
accordance with its terms.
Miss F says she was never provided with a copy of the terms and conditions. RBS says it 
regularly updates its terms and, because Miss Fs communication preferences are that she 
can receive email communications, the bank says any updates wouldve been emailed to 
her. However, Miss F says she never received any such communication from the bank. I 
cant say for certain that Miss F did receive a copy of the terms. But I can see from RBS 
website that its terms and other literature are widely available. So I think Miss F couldve 
reasonably accessed a copy another way. But, even if she didnt, not having sight of the 
terms isnt itself a persuasive reason for me to decide that RBS acted unfairly by changing 
Miss Fs account. The terms set out how the bank would manage its relationship with Miss F, 
and it seems to me that RBS acted in line with this. So I cant fairly conclude that the bank 
did something wrong. 
Miss F says the graduation information RBS holds is incorrect and that she in fact graduated 
the following year. Miss F provided us with copies of correspondence she had with her 
university which suggests this may have been the case. RBS says Miss F never informed it 
of the change and that it couldve amended her graduation date if she provided a formal 
letter from her university.
Miss F says she visited an RBS branch with the same correspondence but was advised 
shed need to provide a formal letter from her university. I dont think it was unreasonable 
that RBS asked her to do so, given that it would need to ensure Miss F was still eligible for 
the graduate account.
Miss F says she could no longer access her account with the university, so she was unable 
to provide the letter. I can see our investigator was able to contact the relevant university 
and was advised a request for such a letter couldve been made over the phone. So it seems 
to me that Miss F had other ways of obtaining a formal letter confirming the duration of her 
course. I cant see that Miss F provided what RBS had requested  which explains why the 
bank doesnt have a record of Miss F notifying it of the change to her graduation date. So I 
cant conclude that RBS acted unfairly when it didnt amend Miss Fs graduation date.
In summary, Im of the opinion that RBS acted fairly and in line with its terms when it 
changed Miss Fs graduate account into a select account. I can see that, since this services 
involvement, RBS decided to offer Miss F £100 compensation. If Miss F would like to accept 
this, my suggestion would be that she contacts the bank directly.
My final decision
Im not asking The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything more in relation to Miss Fs 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman