DRN-4088940
The complaint
Ms M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund over £17,000 she says 
she lost to an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The relevant regulations and industry guidance makes it clear that banks should fairly 
and reasonably be monitoring accounts in order to protect consumers from the risk of 
financial harm, including fraud and scams. But the expectation to warn customers of the 
risk of such financial harm will only reasonably have been engaged if there were 
sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee was a fraudster; meaning that Santander 
could have declined the payments while concerns about the payee were discussed with 
Ms M.
So, I would need to be satisfied that the merchant Ms M paid (F) was operating a scam 
when the disputed payments were made between September 2020 and January 2021 in 
order to expect Santander to have done anything further here. When determining this, 
Ive borne in mind that certain high-risk investment traders (such as CFD merchants, 
which F appears to be) may use sales methods, or communication styles that can be 
seen to be unfair. Especially, when considering the financial losses incurred because of 
a disappointing return on an investment thats been promoted. Even so, not all 
complaints to us involving CFD merchants are in fact a scam. While the ways and means 
of these businesses can be viewed as unreasonable or even unethical  that doesnt 
necessarily mean they amount to the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud.
Ive consulted the official organisations that publish warnings about merchants that 
operate in the UK and abroad, including the Investor Alerts Portal of the International 
Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), as well as the FCAs own warning 
list. These watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe that there 
were no warnings about F at the time these payments were made. The CFD trader is still 
operational and is also regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission 
(CySEC), which would be highly unusual if the merchant was operating a scam. Ms Ms 
representatives have also not provided any persuasive evidence to demonstrate how 
she was scammed either. 
So, overall Im not persuaded that F can be said to have been fraudulent or operating a 
scam at the time in question. As a result, Santander wouldnt have fairly and reasonably 
been expected to intervene. There was the inevitable risk of Ms Ms investments 
returning a loss based on market performance. But Santander isnt required to protect its 
consumers from the risk of financial loss due to investment advice or bad 
bargains.Therefore, I dont consider the bank acted unfairly by failing to intervene in 
these payments.
Even if I were to accept that the merchant was operating a scam at the time, Im not 
persuaded the payments would have appeared overly unusual in any event. The 
amounts spent were not so large that they would be considered as out of character, for 
example. There was also no warning about F that should have reasonably led to 
Santander blocking the card payments automatically either, so I dont think it wouldve 
been required to intervene even if F was operating a scam. 
Given Ms M made the disputed payments via debit card, there is also the possibility that 
Santander could have sought to recover her funds via a chargeback claim. However, 
Ms M didnt dispute the transactions with Santander within the relevant time period 
allowed (120 days) by the scheme provider, so I dont consider it acted unreasonably by 
failing to pursue a claim in these circumstances. Even if Ms M was in time to raise a 
chargeback, I dont consider there would have been any reasonable prospect of such a 
claim succeeding in the circumstances of the investment the debit card payments were 
used to fund.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms M. But overall, Im not persuaded 
Santander can fairly or reasonably be held liable for the money she has lost.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman