DRN-2619390
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited did not properly explain how its 
Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) arrangements would operate, leaving her with significant 
interest charges that she had not expected.  
What happened
Mrs L opened an account with Shop Direct in April 2012. The account was a running account 
credit agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974, initially with a credit limit of 
£400. It enabled Mrs L to use credit to buy goods and services from retailers and brands 
agreed from time to time. Mrs L has used the account to buy items from the very website. 
In July 2019 Mrs L contacted Shop Direct to ask why her minimum payment had increased. 
Shop Direct explained that she had made purchases using the Buy Now Pay Later option 
but had not repaid the full cash price before the end of the payment free period. That meant 
that compound interest was added from the date of the transaction. 
Mrs L was unable to make the minimum payments required and the account fell into arrears. 
She complained that the way in which the BNPL worked and said it had not been properly 
explained; nor had she agreed to the terms. 
Shop Direct acknowledged some administrative failings and paid a modest sum by way of 
compensation, as well as refunding some administration charges. It did not however accept 
the main part of Mrs Ls complaint. 
Mrs L referred the case to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He thought 
that the terms and conditions set out clearly how the BNPL option worked and noted too that 
Mrs Ls account statements had included notifications of BNPL options coming to an end 
and the payments needed to avoid interest. Mrs L did not accept those findings and asked 
that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have however reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator did. I think the way 
in which the BNPL option was to operate was set out clearly and that Shop Direct operated it 
in that way. 
Mrs Ls relationship with Shop Direct is governed primarily by the credit agreement and, 
when making purchases from it, the conditions of the very website.
The credit agreement included, at section 12.3:
12.3 Buy Now Pay Later Transactions: Selected purchases may be available on one of the 
following Buy Now Pay Later offers ("BNPL Transactions") as published from time to time:
12.3.1 No interest during deferred period: The BNPL Transaction will be charged to your 
account on the first statement for which the payment due date occurs after the end of 
the deferred period. Once it is charged it will be shown as part of the current balance 
and will become liable for interest and payment, but no interest will accrue on the BNPL 
Transaction until it is charged to your account. Amounts owing under a BNPL 
Transaction but not yet charged to your account will be deducted from your credit limit 
when we calculate the amount you have left to spend. The amount of credit available to 
you in relation to your account will be reduced accordingly.
12.3.2 Interest accruing during deferred period: The BNPL Transaction will accrue 
interest from the purchase date and will be compounded every 38 days, but this interest 
will not show on your account until the first statement after the expiry of the deferred 
period. The BNPL Transaction will be charged to your account on the first statement for 
which the payment due date occurs after the end of the deferred period. Once it is 
charged it will be shown as part of the current balance and will become liable for 
payment. If the BNPL Transaction is not repaid in full by the first payment due date after 
the end of the deferred period the accrued interest will be charged to your account. 
Amounts owing under a BNPL Transaction but not yet charged to your account will be 
deducted from your credit limit when we calculate the amount you have left to spend. 
The amount of credit available to you in relation to your account will be reduced 
accordingly.  
The very website includes the following:
These Terms and Conditions are applicable every time you access our website and/or 
order goods from our website. Please note that these Terms and Conditions also 
incorporate the following sections which we advise that you read:
Before proceeding with an order you will be required to show that you have read and 
understood the following terms and conditions. We recommend that you print a copy of 
these Terms and Conditions for your future reference.

Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL)
BNPL allows you to delay paying for certain transactions for up to 12 calendar months.
With BNPL, interest is calculated from date of order, compounded every 28 days during 
the delayed payment period (so you are charged interest on interest) and will be applied 
to your account as a lump sum immediately after the delayed payment period ends. 
This lump sum will attract further interest going forwards, meaning you will be charged 
interest on interest.
You can avoid paying any interest on your BNPL transaction by paying off the full cost 
of the transaction before the end of the delayed payment period.
If you want to make payment to a BNPL transaction, you must allocate your payment to 
that specific BNPL transaction. You can do this online in My Account, by finding the 
specific BNPL transaction and making payment to it, or by phoning us and telling our 
advisor which BNPL transaction you wish to make your payment to.
Whenever you make payment to a BNPL transaction, you will immediately start to 
reduce the balance owed on it and the amount of interest you could incur. It is therefore 
important when making a BNPL transaction that you also think how you might want to 
pay it off.
It goes on to provide an example of the different ways of paying for an item using the BNPL 
option and how each might affect the interest payable. 
Mrs L says that the details of the BNPL option were not properly explained. She also says that she has not been provided with a copy of a signed credit agreement. 
There is no requirement for Shop Direct to keep a copy of a credit agreement with Mrs Ls 
signature on it, although it should provide her with the terms of the agreement. I think it 
unlikely however that Shop Direct would have provided Mrs L with credit had she not 
accepted the terms and conditions, and I am satisfied that she was and is bound by them.
The website conditions say that a customer must show acceptance of the website terms 
before they can complete an order. Again, I think that is more likely than not to be correct; 
its likely too that Mrs L indicated that she had read and agreed to the terms when placing 
orders. It follows that she was bound by them  whether or not she had in fact read them. 
The information about the BNPL option was not identical in the credit agreement and on the 
website, but I do not believe there was any material difference. Both explained that interest 
would accrue from the date of the transaction and be applied to the account at the end of the 
deferred payment period. That is what happened. Mrs L says she thought interest would only 
start to accrue at the end of that period, but that is not what the terms say  and there is no 
ambiguity in them.
Shop Direct has, in addition, provided examples of what a customer would be shown when 
choosing the BNPL option on the very website. It sets out the same information again. 
In addition, the investigator noted that account statements include information about which 
BNPL deferred payments are coming to an end. That information included details of the 
transaction, the payment needed to avoid interest, the amount of interest that will be added 
and the date by which payment should be made.
Mrs L has suggested that she has not been provided with evidence of these matters. That 
evidence is however available to her, either because it is publicly available (for example, the 
website terms) or was provided to her at the time (for example, by way of account 
statements). An example which Mrs L has provided and which she says does not include 
this information is a partial screenshot from a mobile phone indicating the date on which a 
payment free period is due to end. That information was not incorrect and did not contradict 
other information available.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited to do anything more to resolve Mrs Ls complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 
25 March 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman