DRN-4153925
The complaint
N, a limited company, complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) wont refund the money it 
lost after it fell victim to a purchase scam. 
Mr C, the director of N, represents it in its complaint.
 
What happened
In April 2022, N made two payments totalling £445 to a seller on an online marketplace that 
it had previously successfully used  a payment of £285 made on 4 April 2022 and £160 on 
5 April 2022. 
N realised it had fallen victim to a scam when it noticed that the marketplace listing, and 
account had been removed. The seller was also uncontactable via the messaging app theyd 
communicated on. N raised the scam with Metro on 11 April 2022. 
Metro investigated Ns fraud claim and it issued its final response in April 2022 not upholding 
it. It says it provided an effective warning and N didnt validate the seller sufficiently. Metro 
attempted to recover Ns funds from the receiving bank, however, no funds were 
recoverable. 
N was unhappy with Metros response and referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into the matter and upheld the complaint. 
Metro didnt agree with the Investigators view. Our Investigator considered Metros further 
comments, however, their view remained unchanged. As no agreement could be reached, 
the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply 
in the circumstances of this case. 
Ive carefully considered the banks reasons for declining Ns claim and its concerns around 
whether N had a reasonable basis for believing the transactions to be genuine and ignored 
an effective warning in relation to the payments being made.
 
But they do not persuade me to reach a different view. When weighing this up, I have 
carefully considered everything N has said and provided as well as the evidence submitted 
by the bank. But I am not persuaded theres enough to say that N failed to meet its 
requirements under the CRM Code for Metro to choose not to reimburse it. 
 
Im satisfied that Metro has not shown N lacked a reasonable basis for belief. I will explain 
why. 
When N made the payments on 4 and 5 April 2022, this was to the same details provided for 
a seller that N had previously made payments to in March 2022. N has explained that it 
received a photo of the parcel the seller was going to post to it and that it received the exact 
items it ordered in March 2022, which N says it was pleased with. I note Metro has made 
comments about N moving away from the online marketplace platform and that N did 
nothing to validate the second purchase/transactions, but Im persuaded the fact N received 
items from the earlier order would have contributed to its belief that it was making payments 
for genuine goods, that it was paying the person it expected to pay and that the person it 
was transacting with was legitimate. After all, it was only around a week prior to the April 
payments that N had made the previous order, received the items purchased and was happy 
with the goods it received. 
Its not been possible to see the conversation between N and the seller that took place on 
the messaging app, which I dont think is surprising given that N told us the seller deleted 
their profile from this and the marketplace platform. Because of this, it means I only have 
limited information to go on now. It also means that I cant be sure how the items  mobile 
phones were presented to N over the messaging app (condition and faults) when N decided 
to go ahead and make the order. On balance, Ive not seen enough to say N missed any 
obvious red flags. 
I acknowledge N has commented at points that it was a little hesitant in making the 
payments by bank transfer and that it sent the funds across a couple of payments. N added 
the £445 was a large sum of money to it and so it had slight doubts about sending the 
amount in one payment. N also says it enquired about travelling to the seller to view the 
items in person, but the seller said they were too busy and due to go away. After some 
thought N proceeded with the payments. In thinking carefully about this point, I have thought 
about what it is realistic to have expected N to do when it was making the payment of £445 
for the items/goods. Whilst I have not seen evidence myself, N has said it checked the 
feedback for the seller on the marketplace and this was excellent. This combined with the 
initial order in which N made payments to the seller and received the items/goods it says led 
to it trusting the seller would send the items. Overall, I dont think it is so implausible that N 
felt it could trust the seller when placing the second order. 
Whilst Ive not been able to see for myself exactly what was discussed or clear screenshots 
at the time of the items N was buying, given Ns recollections explain that the items had 
faults which would require repairs to them and that they were of varying makes and models 
and ages, Im not persuaded the price of the items were too good to be true. Given that N 
believed repairs would need to be made to the items, I dont think it was implausible for the 
seller to be offering the items at the price agreed.  
The CRM Code is designed to give people that have fallen victim to an APP scam the 
confidence that they will be reimbursed if they have acted appropriately. For the reasons 
I have explained, I am satisfied, on balance, that N had a reasonable basis for believing 
the payee was the person it was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or 
services; and/or the person or business with whom it transacted was legitimate. 
Ive then gone on to considered whether Metro has established N ignored an effective 
warning at the time of making the payments. Metro says an effective warning was provided 
when N set up a new payee in March 2022 (when it made the initial payment to the seller). 
The CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. It sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer 
to understand what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, 
clear, impactful, timely and specific.
Ive carefully considered the warning Metro says was presented at the time N set up the new 
payee in March 2022 and having done so, Im not persuaded that the information that it says 
was shown to N was impactful enough in the context of this scam to meet the minimum 
requirements under the CRM Code. I say this because, the warning says if paying for a 
service, even from someone used before, to double check the payment information has 
come from them and not a fraudster. Here N was making a payment, to payment details it 
had used a week before for the seller. It wasnt the case that N had received details again for 
the new items it wished to buy, it was simply making further payments to the same seller for 
new items. Further, for a warning to be considered effective under the CRM Code, it must 
also be timely. In the circumstances of this case, I dont find the warning provided when N 
set up the new payee to the seller in March 2022 - around a week prior to the payments in 
April to be timely. It follows that I dont find Metro can rely on a warning previous given, to 
establish N later ignored an effective warning when making the payments on 4 and 
5 April 2022. Overall, Im not satisfied Metro gave an effective warning to N, nor do I 
consider that it ignored one.
For completeness, Metro says the transactions werent out of character and even if it had 
contacted N it wouldnt have broken the spell. Based on what Ive seen and been told, I 
agree, but this isnt the test here. As explained earlier, the CRM Code is designed to 
reimburse innocent victims of scams of authorised push payment scams like this one except 
in limited circumstances. And for the reasons Ive explained above, I am not persuaded 
theres enough to say that N failed to meet its requirements under the CRM Code for Metro 
to choose not to reimburse it. 
Putting things right
Ive decided that N ought reasonably to be refunded under the CRM Code.
To put things right, Metro Bank PLC should now:
Reimburse the money N has lost to the scam - £445;
As N has been deprived of the used of those funds, Metro should pay 8% simple 
interest per year from the date it declined Ns claim under the CRM Code to the date 
of settlement. 
If Metro considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell N how much its taken off. It should also give N a tax deduction 
certificate if it asks for one, so N can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Ns complaint about Metro Bank PLC.
I direct Metro Bank PLC to pay compensation, as set out above, within 28 days of receiving 
notification of Mr Cs acceptance on behalf of N of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman