DRN-3972543
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has declined a claim she made 
on her home insurance policy for the loss of the diamond in her engagement ring.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, the diamond fell out of Mrs Rs engagement ring 
and was lost.
Mrs Rs ring is covered under her contents insurance policy as a specified item with a value 
of £10,000. So, Mrs R made a claim for this loss under her policy.
Admiral appointed a jewellery specialist to manage the claim on its behalf. This specialist 
initially offered a cash settlement of £6,700 on the claim, which Mrs R disputed as unfair. But 
when the claim was reviewed by Admiral, it said the claim should be declined as Mrs R 
hadnt complied with an endorsement on the policy requiring the ring to be inspected 
annually.
Mrs R raised four points of complaint with Admiral, which Ive summarised below:
Lack of transparency in the settlement philosophy and how much would be paid in 
the event of claim  ie the application of Admirals insurer discounts.
Fluctuations of value  the rest of the policy is index linked, so specified items should 
be also.
The decision to decline the claim was unfair and the importance of the endorsement 
unclear.
The way the decline decision was delivered, via webchat, caused distress.
Admiral upheld Mrs Rs complaint about the way the claim decline was handled and sent a 
cheque for £150 compensation. Mrs R later returned this cheque without cashing it.
Admiral didnt uphold the remainder of Mrs Rs complaint, so she referred her concerns to 
our service where it was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think Mrs Rs 
complaint should be upheld. In her view, Admirals decision to decline the claim, based on 
Mrs Rs failure to comply with the policy endorsement it relied on, was fair and reasonable. 
As she said the decision to decline the claim was fair, our investigator felt Mrs Rs concerns 
with any hypothetical settlement amount werent material to the outcome of the complaint. 
So, she didnt comment on Mrs Rs concerns with the initial settlement amount, or her 
concern with index linking.
Mrs R didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Like our investigator, I agree that the primary issue at the heart of this complaint is Admirals 
decision to decline the claim. Because of this, I dont intend to reach a finding on Mrs Rs 
concerns with the initial settlement offer or Admirals approach to index linking. This is 
because Im satisfied the claim doesnt succeed, so the amount Admiral initially offered, and 
the reasoning behind it, isnt relevant to the overall outcome here. 
The endorsement Admiral has relied on to decline Mrs Rs claim states:
Under Sections 2 and 3 of your policy. We will not cover loss or damage to specified 
items of jewellery valued at over £5.000 unless they are inspected by a professional 
jeweller annually and any defects are rectified
Mrs R has argued that the importance of the endorsement wasnt made clear enough to her, 
either during the call or on the policy literature. But she has confirmed that she was told the 
following:
One thing before I forget... what we advise is there is no cover for loss or damage 
unless its inspected every year.
To which she says she replied:
Ill just take it in and get a valuation
Having considered what Mrs R says she was told, alongside the wording of the endorsement 
and its prominence within Mrs Rs policy schedule, I think it was sufficiently clear that there 
would be no cover for her ring unless it was inspected annually by a jeweller. To be clear, as 
I know Mrs R feels strongly about this point, Im not saying that the endorsement couldnt 
have been any clearer. But I do think it was clear enough for Mrs R to understand what was 
required and to make an informed choice about taking the policy.
On the call, Mrs R says she confirmed shed have the ring valued. This would have included 
an inspection of the ring, as required by the endorsement. But Ive not seen any evidence to 
suggest that she did so, or that the ring had otherwise been inspected annually.
The loss in this case was the diamond falling out of the ring. Therefore, I consider that non-
compliance with the endorsement was more likely than not material to the loss. On balance, 
if Mrs R had an inspection completed, the clasps would have been checked, which would 
have reduced the risk to Admiral (and Mrs R) of the diamond falling out. So, in these 
circumstances, I consider it fair and reasonable for Admiral to rely on non-compliance with 
the endorsement to decline Mrs Rs claim.
Mrs R was initially told, incorrectly, that her claim would be covered. And then when Admiral 
decided to decline the claim, she was told this via webchat. Admiral accepts Mrs R has been 
caused undue distress as a result of these issues and has offered £150 compensation. I 
think this amount is sufficient to fairly compensate Mrs R for the impact of Admirals errors 
here. As I understand it, Mrs R didnt cash Admirals cheque for the compensation because she 
didnt want to accept it. So, Admiral should re-issue the above amount, in order to fairly 
resolve Mrs Rs complaint.
My final decision
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should pay Mrs R £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman