DRN-4170506
The complaint
Ms B has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Avivas) handling and settlement of a 
claim she made under her home insurance policy, for damage caused by subsidence.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Ms B is unhappy that following removal of 
vegetation at one of the rear garden boundaries of her property, Aviva didnt replace the 
trees or construct a new retaining wall. She says there has since been a landslide from her 
neighbours property into her garden, causing a health and safety issue.
Ms B is also unhappy that Aviva has refused to deal with some regrowth of the vegetation in 
question. And shes unhappy Aviva says earlier damage to her front boundary wall wouldnt 
be covered, and that she needs to raise a new claim for an escape of water she has 
reported. Ms B says the escape of water is linked to the front boundary wall issue and the 
subsidence claim.
Our investigator considered Ms Bs complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said the expert evidence suggested the removal of trees had not caused the weakening of 
the land behind, but rather that it had exposed the poorly constructed pathway and retaining 
wall on the neighbours side, which wouldnt be Avivas responsibility to put right.
Our investigator said Aviva had treated the stumps and provided advice to Ms B as to how to 
manage any regrowth until the stumps died off. She said garden maintenance and 
management of the regrowth was Ms Bs responsibility, not Avivas. She also said that the 
available evidence suggested the leak was not linked to the subsidence claim and so it was 
fair for Aviva to say a new claim needed to be made for this issue. Our investigator also said 
Avivas earlier decision to decline cover for the front boundary wall was fair and reasonable, 
in light of the expert evidence.
Ms B didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Ms B, I agree with the 
outcome reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
For ease of reference, Ill address each of Ms Bs complaint points in turn.
Tree removal and landslide
As a result of investigations into Ms Bs claim for subsidence damage, it was confirmed 
that the cause of subsidence was clay shrinkage caused by the root systems of 
vegetation at the boundary of Ms Bs property.
Aviva removed the offending vegetation as part of the claim settlement. This is what 
wed expect it to do as a lasting and effective repair cannot be achieved unless the 
cause of the subsidence is also dealt with. 
Ms B has complained that Aviva didnt replace the removed vegetation with anything 
else. She says her neighbours property is above hers, and that because the trees 
werent replaced a landslide has occurred.
Aviva sent out a surveyor to consider this issue on 2 February 2023. Ive seen 
contemporaneous notes of his report which state (with my added anonymisation):
I attended today without (Ms B) as she was working and she felt the bank to the 
left of her house was DANGEROUSLY UNSAFE and it was the insurers 
responsibility to install a retaining wall where the tree was removed by 
(contractor). I attended and inspected the bank and it did not appear to be 
unsafe and a steel rod was sticking out that was not adding any support and 
could be removed. I believe the rod was left behind when the boxing was formed 
on the boundary by the neighbour to form their concrete path. (Ms B) correctly 
paid to have the first 14m of the boundary wall to be built in double brick ( 2 
courses) to retain the soil. The next 8m was built from concrete posts and gravel 
boards with timber panels.
The tree that was removed did not cause any further damage to the bank, IT 
ONLY EXPOSED THE POORLY CONSTRUCTED/ NON EXISTANT 
RETAINING WALL BEHIND. The left side neighbours soil and concrete path is 
approximately 700mm high and the neighbours concrete has had approximately 
300mm of the soil below which has eroded away. This appears to be on the 
neighbours property so this is NOT the insurers responsibility to build a 
completely new retaining wall.
Ive not been provided with any contradictory expert reports to support that the exposed soil 
is unsafe solely as a result of the tree removal. But Ms B says that following the surveyors 
visit in February 2023, a further visit took place in March 2023. She says the person who 
visited agreed with her that the site was unsafe due to the removal of the vegetation. She 
says Aviva has refused to share this report with her.
Our investigator spoke with Aviva about this, and it said the March 2023 visit was 
carried out by a contractor whose instruction was to create a schedule of repair works 
for the accepted subsidence damage, not to provide an additional report or opinion on 
the issues it had confirmed were not covered under the claim. So, Aviva says no report 
was created and so there isnt one for it to share with Ms B.Avivas explanation here is plausible, and Ive no reason to doubt what it says about the 
purpose of the visit or the lack of an additional report. So, in the absence of such 
evidence, I find the surveyors comments from February 2023 to be the most 
persuasive evidence available. Based on these, the dominant cause of any landslide 
was the poorly constructed and/or absent retaining wall on the neighbours side, rather 
than anything Avivas contractor caused by removing the trees. In these circumstances, 
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect Aviva to construct a new retaining 
wall.
Aviva has also explained to Ms B that her policy does not cover her for the replacement 
of vegetation removed as a result of a subsidence claim. It says it would be 
irresponsible for it to replace the vegetation, given thats what caused the subsidence 
damage in the first place. And I agree. I wouldnt expect Aviva to remove vegetation in 
order to address the cause of subsidence and to deliver a lasting and effective repair, 
only to replace it with vegetation which could compromise that repair.
It follows that based on the weight of the expert evidence available, Ill not be directing 
Aviva to take any further action with regards to this issue.
Wisteria regrowth
Ms B is unhappy that a Wisteria stump (part of the removed vegetation) has started to 
regrow. She wants Aviva to deal with this. 
As part of the vegetation removal, the wisteria plant was cut down to a stump and 
treated with ego plugs designed to kill the stump. Aviva says that if Ms B removes any 
regrowth, the stump will eventually die off. It also says that Ms B can cover the stump 
with an opaque material to help prevent further regrowth until the stump dies.
Ive thought carefully about this issue. I can appreciate why Ms B feels Aviva should deal 
with this, given it was Aviva who removed the vegetation. However, I dont think this means 
its Avivas responsibility to continually manage the regrowth. Avivas responsibility was to 
remove the cause of subsidence, which it says monitoring results have confirmed it has. And 
providing Ms B manages the initial regrowth as part of her routine garden maintenance, 
which is not something Aviva would be responsible for, the evidence suggests the stump will 
die. So ongoing regrowth management shouldnt be necessary in the long term.
Taking everything into account, I dont consider that Avivas position here is unfair or 
unreasonable. 
Escape of water and boundary wall
Aviva says the escape of water Ms B has complained about has been caused by an 
internal shower waste pipe which is embedded within the floor screed. It says this issue 
is separate to the subsidence claim, and so Ms B needs to raise a new claim if shed 
like the damage considered under her policy.
Ms B has provided a quotation from a contractor which suggests that the cause of the 
escape of water was the collapse of a wall fracturing the plastic shower waste pipe, both 
externally and through the wall. The report suggests the fracture likely runs through the pipe, 
which is buried internally within the floor screed, up to and underneath the shower tray. 
Ive no reason to doubt the conclusions of the contractor who provided the report and repair 
quotation. However, this doesnt mean I agree the issue should be remedied as part of the 
subsidence claim.I say this because Aviva had already declined to cover the collapsed garden boundary wall 
prior to this subsidence claim, on the basis it was caused by gradual deterioration and the 
weight of the neighbours hedge pushing on the wall, rather than an insured peril. 
This claim decision is supported by the surveyors report from February 2022 which 
specifically highlights the wall which collapsed, which is a significant distance from the areas 
of subsidence damage, as not being related to the subsidence claim.
Instead, Aviva said the wall was in poor condition, and that it was suffering damage due to 
the weight of the neighbours hedge pushing on it, causing it to tilt. Aviva said this was 
damage which had happened gradually, which is excluded under the policy terms.
Ive seen the available photos of the wall in question at the time of the collapse and note that 
it does appear to have been leaning due to effects of the hedge, rather than downward 
movement of the ground (subsidence) beneath this wall. This is further supported by the 
arboriculturists report, which highlighted the various trees/hedges/shrubs which were 
causing subsidence, but specifically said that the particular hedge in question was causing 
direct damage (rather than subsidence damage) to the boundary wall.
Based on all the above, Im persuaded, on balance, that the dominant cause of damage to 
the wall was wear and tear, or damage which happened gradually, which is excluded under 
the terms of Ms Bs policy. So, I think Avivas decision not to cover the damage to the wall 
was in line with the policy terms and was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
And as the reasons for the wall collapse, which Ms B says resulted in the escape of water, 
was not the same episode of subsidence which Aviva has agreed to cover, I also agree that 
its fair for Aviva to insist that Ms B needs to raise a new claim, if she wants the damage 
caused by the escape of water to be potentially covered under her policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman