DRN-3673668
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited trading as Halifax (Lloyds) 
unfairly declined her claim and cancelled her policy following a theft claim.
What happened
Mrs P has a home insurance policy with Lloyds. In November 2021 there was a theft at her 
home and she made a claim for the stolen items. Lloyds initially accepted the claim.
At the start of December Mrs P realised her wedding rings were also missing and she called 
to add these to the claim. Lloyds asked her a number of questions about the rings, including 
asking for photos to show proof of ownership. Mrs P provided various images and some 
written statements from neighbours and healthcare professionals.
However Lloyds wasnt satisfied with the information provided. It said the photos appeared to 
show a time stamp after the date of loss. And it had concerns about inconstancies with other 
images shared on social media. It wrote to Mrs P to explain that it was relying on the fraud 
condition in the policy to decline the claim and was cancelling the policy from the start of 
December. It said it would be looking to recover its costs paid out to Mrs P so far.  
Mrs P didnt think this was fair as she said the photo was time stamped after the event 
because it was a screenshot and not because she was still in possession of the rings. She 
made a complaint but Lloyds didnt uphold it. So she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said she thought based on the evidence, and the investigation carried out, Lloyds had 
acted fairly by relying on the fraud condition. 
Mrs P didnt agree so the matter has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by saying how sorry I am to hear about the difficult time Mrs P has been 
through while shes been dealing with this claim. I can see shes been managing problems 
with her husbands health as well as her own and I understand this would have made the 
matters contained in this complaint even more stressful to deal with. 
However in this decision, I can only look at the actions of Lloyds and assess whether it has 
acted fairly or not. But I want to offer assurances that my findings in this decision in no way 
diminish the distressing time Mrs P has been through.
I note that Mrs P has requested we wait for her to gather further evidence including 
additional police reports before issuing an outcome on her complaint. However Im satisfied I 
have all the information I need to reach a decision. Lloyds hasnt disputed that a theft took 
place, its concerns are specifically about the stolen rings. And even if the police report 
shows that the rings were reported as stolen at the time, this wouldnt be enough to change 
the outcome of this complaint. 
Lloyds has declined Mrs Ps claim as it doesnt believe it was entirely honest. In cases where 
the fraud clause in a policy has been relied on, our role is not to decide whether fraud has 
been committed. But to decide whether the business acted fairly and reasonably when 
reaching its decision to apply this term. Its important to note that as this is not a criminal 
matter Lloyds dont need to prove beyond reasonable doubt that fraud occurred, but just that 
it was most likely the claim wasnt honest. 
We understand that accusing someone of fraud is a serious matter. So its important that a 
business has enough weight of evidence to make its decision fair and reasonable. When 
reaching my decision, I have considered the investigation carried out by Lloyds and the 
evidence it has relied upon when reaching its decision, in order to decide whether it has 
acted fairly and reasonably.
Lloyds originally expressed concerns about the picture of the ring Mrs P provided to prove 
ownership. As the original photo was taken after the date of the loss. Since then Mrs P has 
provided a time stamped photo that shows it was taken years before. While Lloyds has 
doubts about the photos date stamp Im satisfied that this is enough to show Mrs P owned 
the ring and that the photo was likely taken before the loss.
However, looking at the other evidence provided, I dont think this is enough to say Lloyds 
acted unfairly by relying on the fraud condition. Mrs P has provided a large amount of 
information which I can see Lloyds has considered. However there are inconsistencies in the 
accounts provided and some of the documents arent as clear as Id expect. 
For example, when Mrs P made the claim she said that she hadnt realised the rings were 
missing at first as her husband had been in hospital and she didnt know where he had 
stored them. And she provided text messages to prove this. But since then Mrs P has said 
that the missing rings were reported on the original police report in November.
Further, while I think Mrs P has done enough to show the time stamp on the photo of the 
ring, Lloyds has pointed out some of the other information provided about the photos isnt 
consistent. For example the location the photo of the ring is taken and the times images 
were posted on social media. 
So when I consider all the information together, Im satisfied that Lloyds has conducted a 
thorough investigation into the circumstances. And based on the evidence, I think its acted 
fairly by relying on the fraud condition in the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman