DRN-2432500
The complaint
G, a business, has complained about the way The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU) settled a claim under its commercial insurance policy after 
money was stolen. G is represented by its proprietor, Mr S.
What happened
G offered boarding facilities for cats and dogs. Mr S operated the business from his home 
address.
While Mr S was away on holiday, a break-in occurred and around £8,000 was stolen from 
his home office. His son, who was looking after the business in his absence, was asleep in 
another building on the site at the time. This building was part of the business premises for 
the purposes of the policy but was also the sons home.
Mr S made a claim under the policy. NFU accepted the claim but offered only £500 in 
settlement. It said this was the limit of its liability because the theft hadnt occurred from the 
business premises and furthermore it had occurred outside normal business hours and the 
money hadnt been stored in a safe.
Mr S complained about NFUs decision. He said that the home office was part of the 
business premises. He furthermore said that his business operated 24 hours a day and that 
the money had been stored in a locked steel box which could reasonably be regarded as a 
safe. He therefore considered that under the terms of the policy he was entitled to a 
settlement of £5,000.
NFU wouldnt change its position. Mr S therefore referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He considered the 
theft had occurred outside the businesss operating hours and the money had not been held 
in a safe. He was therefore satisfied that NFU had acted fairly in declining the claim.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings. He considered that because his business 
looked after dogs and cats 24 hours a day, and there could be an emergency at any time, it 
was wrong to say the theft occurred outside of business hours. He also considered that the 
money had been stored in a very secure container.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy schedule sets out the limits of the cover. In respect of theft of money, these limits 
are as follows:
Unauthorised use of credit cards £10,000
In transit or in a bank night safe £5,000
In your premises during business hours £5,000
In locked safe in your premises outside business hours £5,000
In gaming, amusement or vending machines £250
In other circumstances £500
Monetary documents £250,000
NFU considered that the theft did not occur from the business premises. It furthermore 
considered that the theft occurred outside business hours and that the money was not in a 
locked safe. On this basis, it considered that the claim fell under In other circumstances 
above, and hence paid £500 in settlement. 
For me to conclude that NFUs settlement was unfair, I would need to be satisfied that the 
theft occurred either from the business premises during business hours or from the business 
premises outside business hours but from a locked safe.
The policy defines business hours as:
Any time when you or any employee with responsibility for money are at the premises for 
the purpose of your business.
Gs website states that the businesss opening hours are 9-12am and 2-4pm on Monday, 
Tuesday, Thursday and Friday, and 9-12am on Saturday and Sunday. The theft occurred 
while Mr Ss son was in bed asleep and was discovered on a Sunday morning, suggesting 
that it occurred overnight. This would mean that the theft occurred outside of the advertised 
opening hours.
Mr S argues that the advertised opening hours are simply to deter customers from dropping 
off pets at inconvenient times and that the business operates non-stop because dogs and 
cats are always being looked after and emergencies could occur at any time. However, while 
I might be persuaded to agree that the business hours could extend to times outside the 
advertised opening hours to cover those times when Mr S or someone else on his behalf 
was carrying out a regular activity associated with the business, I do not consider it 
reasonable to say that Mr Ss son was carrying out such an activity at the time he was 
asleep, particularly given that the building he was in was not just part of the business 
premises but also his home.
I therefore consider the policy occurred outside business hours and it was therefore 
reasonable for NFU to say the theft did not occur In your premises during business hours.
The money which was stolen was held in a locked steel box which was in a drawer. The 
policy does not define safe but a dictionary definition of this is a strong fireproof cabinet 
with a complex lock, used for the storage of valuables. I do not consider that the steel box 
meets this definition because there is no indication that it had a complex lock.
I therefore consider it reasonable for NFU to say the theft did not occur from a locked safe 
in your premises outside business hours.
In view of this, I consider it was reasonable for NFU to say the theft fell under the heading of 
In other circumstances. I dont need to additionally consider whether NFU was correct to 
say the theft did not occur from the business premises.
NFU has paid £500 in settlement of the claim which is its maximum liability in this case. I 
therefore consider it has acted fairly and doesnt need to pay anything more.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf of 
G, to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman