DRN-2949702
The complaint
Ms Ps complaint is about the administration of her mortgage with Pepper (UK) Limited 
trading as Engage Credit. She is unhappy with how much Pepper expected her to pay to the 
mortgage and arrears from March 2020, as it is more than the court set out she had to pay. 
She has also questioned whether the amount in excess of the contractual monthly payment 
(CMP) is being used to reduce the arrears balance, as it doesnt appear to be reducing and 
she wants a full audit of the account conducted.
What happened
In 2016 Pepper applied to the courts for possession of Ms Ps property due to arrears. The 
court issued a suspended possession order stating, from 1 July 2016, Ms P needed to pay 
the CMP each month plus an additional £90. At that time the CMP was just over £670.
Ms P started making payments under the arrangement each month from July 2016, although 
there were some months the amount was slightly short, there were also others where it was 
more than necessary. The payment date on the mortgage was the 11th day of the month. In 
October 2019 Mrs P didnt make a payment toward the mortgage, although a benefits 
payment of £140 was received. The February 2020 payment was also significantly lower 
than the court order required, even when a benefit payment was taken into account. As 
such, Pepper contacted Ms P about the situation and a discussion took place on 
10 March 2020 about what had happened and how to move forward. At that time the CMP 
was just over £680.
In the early part of the call of 10 March 2020 it was explained to Ms P that Pepper had 
written to her because of the missed and short payments. Ms P asked that Pepper speak to 
her son. Pepper explained how the payment arrangement worked and when payments were 
expected to be made, based on the payment due date of the 11th of the month. Mr Ps son 
disagreed with what he was being told, and Pepper moved the conversation on to discuss a 
way forward. At this time the CMP was just over £680. Pepper said that it needed to input 
what Ms P would be paying for March and going forward. Ms Ps son immediately said £750 
per month. 
There was then a conversation about the due date and whether it would help if it was moved 
from the 11th and Ms Ps son asked that it be moved to the last working day of the month. It 
was clarified that if that was the case, Ms P would have to make sure that shed made the 
payment before that date. It was confirmed that this was understood, and reassurances were 
made that the payments would be made on time. Ms P was then spoken to again and 
Pepper confirmed with her that she was happy to have the payment date changed and 
explained that her son had said she would be paying £750 each month going forward. Ms P 
confirmed she was happy with the payment date and the proposed payment.  Unfortunately, 
while Ms P made a payment of £750 in May 2020, it wasnt made until after the last working 
day of the month and triggered Pepper to want to speak to Ms P again. It tried on two 
occasions, but didnt receive a response.
On 26 June 2020 Pepper sent Ms P a letter about the arrears on her account. It said that it 
had attempted to contact her and had been unsuccessful. As such, it asked her to 
immediately clear the arrears and fees balances of approximately £26,000. It then set out 
that if Ms P failed to make a payment equal to or greater than the contractual monthly 
instalment, she might be charged an arrears fee. Ms P complained.
Pepper responded to the complaint on 31 July 2020. It concluded that it shouldnt have sent 
its letter of 26 June 2020 as quickly as it did, and should have made more attempts to 
contact Ms P informally before it was sent. It offered her £50 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience this had caused her. However, it was satisfied that Ms Ps son had 
proposed she personally pay £750 each month, and Ms P had confirmed that she would, in 
a telephone call on 10 March 2020. As such, Pepper didnt think it had done anything wrong 
in expecting her to do so. 
Ms P wasnt satisfied with the response she received and referred her complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, and recommended that it be upheld in 
part. He didnt consider the amount of compensation Pepper had offered for the mistake in 
sending the arrears demand as early as it did, was enough, and thought it should be 
increased to a total of £150. However, the investigator confirmed that the payment 
arrangement set by the courts had been broken by Ms P, so Pepper was entitled to make 
alternative arrangements. She had committed to paying £750 in addition to any benefits 
payment made, and Pepper was entitled to expect her to fulfil that agreement. In addition, 
the investigator explained how the arrears balance was calculated each month and that he 
was satisfied that the payments Ms P had made were being correctly allocated. 
Ms P didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She repeated her recollections of the 
conversation with Pepper in March 2020, disagreeing with the account the investigator had 
detailed. She said she was sure that at no point was it agreed that a payment of £750 would 
be made every month. Ms P said that her complaint had not been that the arrears balance 
wasnt reflecting the payments made, but rather that the fees balance was wrong and 
constantly increasing. She also asked that the interest being charged on the account be 
looked into, as it was inconsistent, and so a full audit was necessary. In addition, Ms P 
queried the application of the payments and CMP to the account and how the balance was 
affected. Ms P questioned the charges that had been applied to the account, despite the 
payment arrangement being met. In relation to the proposed compensation amount she said 
it was paltry and disrespectful, and didnt take into consideration the stress she had suffered 
and the effect the issues had had on her existing medical situation.  
Our investigator provided Ms P with a copy of the telephone recording of the conversation of 
10 March 2020. As for the new complaint points Ms P had raised about the fees balance, 
monthly charges and interest charged, he explained as these were new complaint points she 
hadnt made Pepper aware of, so she would need to do that before we could become 
involved. We also explained that it was not our role to complete an audit of a mortgage 
account and if Ms P thought this needed to be done, she would need to arrange for it herself. 
The investigator again explained how the arrears balance was calculated and gave an 
example of how the expected payments, fees and incoming money affected it. As for the 
compensation amount, the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his recommendation. 
Pepper accepted the investigators recommendation. 
Ms P remained unhappy with the investigators conclusions. Having listened to the call 
recording the investigator had provided, she acknowledged that a verbal agreement had 
been made for her to pay £750 each month, but said this had been imposed by Pepper. She 
said that it was not explained, and Pepper didnt say that the initial suggestion made by her son of £600 to £750, had been rejected. Ms P said that although the £750 was agreed in the 
conversation, she was under the impression that it would not supersede the arrangement 
that had been set out in the suspended possession order. 
As for the new complaint issues regarding the fees, charges and interest, Ms P said that 
they were clearly mentioned in her first and second letters to this service because she had 
asked for a full audit of the account. By asking for a full audit, she considered she had asked 
for every area relating to the mortgage account to be looked into. Ms P said she was still not 
satisfied with the paltry sum of compensation, given the stress and trauma she had suffered.
The investigator again explained to Ms P that we dont provide an audit service. As nothing 
Ms P had said caused him to change his conclusions, it was decided that the complaint 
should passed to an ombudsman.
Ms P confirmed that as we didnt provide an audit service, she would contact Pepper for a 
response to her concerns about the fees balance. She confirmed that she wanted the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly confirm that we dont provide an audit service and so if Ms P wants an audit 
completed on her account, she would need to arrange for it to be done elsewhere by a 
suitably qualified professional. In addition, our rules require that a financial business be 
made aware of a complaint, and have to opportunity to respond to it, before it falls within our 
jurisdiction. Ms P has said that she will refer her additional complaint points to Pepper for 
response, so I wont be commenting on them in this decision.  
Ms Ps second complaint point was that she was uncertain that the money she is paying has 
been allocated to the arrears balance. I have reviewed the information available to me and 
I am satisfied that Pepper has been deducting the additional payments she has made, over 
and above the CMP, from the arrears balance. I would refer her back to our investigators 
explanation of how this works and the examples provided from her account. 
In relation to the amount Pepper has expected Ms P to pay since March 2020, I dont 
consider that it has done anything wrong in this regard. While the court set a payment 
arrangement for Ms P of £90 over the CMP, this would only be binding on the parties if Ms P 
made that payment each and every month from July 2016. Ms P didnt do that and so the 
arrangement was broken, which means that it was no longer a valid agreement.
In the circumstance where Ms P broke the agreement, Pepper was allowed to assess the 
mortgage account and decided what the appropriate action going forward should be. 
Depending on how the account had been conducted, this could have been anything from 
asking her to enter into a new payment arrangement to moving forward with the possession 
process. In this case Pepper spoke to Ms P and agreed a new payment arrangement with 
her, which was for her to personally pay £750 to the account each month.
I have listened to the telephone call in which this arrangement was agreed, taking into 
account everything Ms P has said about the situation and the conversation itself. While Ms P 
has said there was mention of a variable amount being paid, between £600 and £750, that 
isnt the case. Ms Ps son was asked what would be paid in March and going forward and he 
said £750. Mrs P subsequently agreed that figure with no mention of the amount being 
variable, or any other figure. I dont think Pepper acted inappropriately during the conversation or that the agreement reached was unclear. As such, I cant find Pepper was 
unreasonable in expecting Ms P to make the payment shed agreed to each month. 
That said, Pepper has accepted that it should have made more than two attempts to contact 
Ms P before it sent its letter of 26 June 2020. Pepper has agreed to pay Ms P £150 for the 
upset this letter caused her. I think that is an appropriate amount in the circumstances. I 
have noted that Ms P doesnt think that it is enough, but I would highlight that the 
compensation is solely for the additional upset the letter of 26 June 2020 caused her. It is 
clear that Ms P was understandable upset by the arrears situation as a whole. However, as I 
havent found that Pepper has done anything wrong in relation to its general handling of that 
situation, I cant find it responsible for that upset and make an award for it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of Ms Ps 
complaint, I require Pepper (UK) Limited trading as Engage Credit, to pay her £150 
(including the £50 it initially offered).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman