DRN-3837428
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group (Adrian Flux) treated her 
unfairly in relation to a claim she sought to make on her car insurance. Any reference to 
Adrian Flux or Mrs B in this decision includes respective agents or representatives unless 
specified otherwise.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to both parties, so Ill summarise what
I think are the key points.
Mrs B purchased a motor insurance policy through a broker  Adrian Flux.
She was involved in a car accident that she says wasnt her fault. She called Adrian 
Flux to enquire about making a claim for the damage caused to her vehicle.
The call was answered by Adrian Flux appointed agents (Company A) who gave her 
two options  make a claim via her own insurer or it could help her pursue the matter 
directly through the third-party insurer.
Mrs B didnt want to claim on her own insurance as she believed the accident wasnt 
her fault and didnt think it was fair that she incurred costs or that her claims history 
was affected. So she chose to let Company A pursue the matter for her.
But Mrs B later complained about Company As handling of this. She says it caused 
delays and failed to reimburse her the cost she incurred for repairing the damage to 
her car after telling her it would do this.
Company A said it hadnt made any promise to reimburse any repair costs Mrs B 
incurred and so wasnt liable for anything shed paid in relation to this.
Our investigator considered the complaint against Company A and didnt uphold it for 
broadly the same reasons as Company A had set out. Mrs B disagreed and asked 
that the case be looked at by an ombudsman.
Before I could consider the merits, I had to issue a separate jurisdiction decision 
explaining why the complaint should be set up against Adrian Flux instead of 
Company A and also about what parts of it were in my power to consider.
In November 2022 I issued a provisional decision on the merits of this case against Adrian 
Flux which set out that I didnt uphold the complaint but for different reasons to that of the 
investigator. Ive included part of what I said below:
Adrian Flux is the broker Mrs B used to purchase her motor insurance policy. 
As a broker, Adrian Flux has a responsibility to ensure any information it (or agents 
acting on its behalf) provides to customers is clear, fair and not misleading. So Ive 
kept this in mind when considering this case. 
When Mrs B called Adrian Flux to enquire about making a claim for the damage to 
her vehicle, she informed it that shed received a quote from a garage for the repair 
costs and these were in the region of £1300. 
Mrs B says that Adrian Flux told her to pay for these repair costs out of her own 
pocket and that it would reimburse her. But this never happened. This seems to be 
the crux of Mrs Bs complaint. 
Ive listened to the calls where Mrs B first notifies Adrian Flux of her loss and 
discusses the repair costs and process of making a claim. 
After hearing the amount Mrs B had been quoted to repair the vehicle, Adrian Flux 
explained that in making a claim with her insurer, her car would most likely be 
considered as a write off as the then current market value was less than the amount 
Mrs B was being quoted to repair it. 
Mrs B wasnt happy with this as she felt her vehicle was in excellent condition and 
well taken care of, so she wanted it repaired rather than written off. And she didnt 
think she should be responsible for the repair costs as the accident wasnt her fault. 
Adrian Flux went onto explain that she had two options  go through her insurer and 
claim under her fully comprehensive policy or pursue it separately against the third 
party insurer, with the hope the third-party insurer would authorise repairs but it also 
explained this may not happen. 
It went onto explain that in pursuing the third party, the hope was to try to get an 
admission of liability so that Mrs B would hopefully get the outcome she was looking 
for, which she seemed to accept. But at no point did I hear Adrian Flux tell Mrs B to 
pay for the repairs herself and that it would reimburse her. 
Mrs B chose to pursue the claim against the third party as she didnt think she should 
be liable for any costs, whether that be through her insurance or personally. 
After that point Company A took over the pursuit of the third party on Mrs Bs behalf 
and was no longer acting as Adrian Fluxs agent or under any other contract of 
insurance in doing so. So I cant look into its actions past that point. 
But the part of this complaint I can consider is those first notification of loss calls and 
from what I heard, Adrian Flux never advised Mrs B to pay for repairs or that it would 
reimburse her. I think it met its responsibility of providing her with the relevant options 
to attempt recovery of her losses. And ultimately, she chose to pursue this via the 
third party. 
This may have gone on longer than she wouldve expected and not garnered the 
outcome she wouldve hoped for, but for the reasons Ive explained, this isnt 
something I can consider against Adrian Flux. 
I do acknowledge that Adrian Flux couldve been clearer to Mrs B on those first 
notification of loss calls about how its involvement would change with regards to 
Company A taking over responsibility for pursuing the third party. So Ive thought 
about if and how this may have impacted Mrs Bs decision process. 
But on balance, given that Mrs B was fairly adamant she didnt want to incur any 
costs as a result of the accident, I think even if Adrian Flux had better explained its 
role, she most likely wouldve still gone down the same route of pursuing the third 
party, because if that option had been successful it may well have been a more 
favourable outcome for her than claiming on her insurance. 
It follows that based on what I can consider in this case, I dont intend to direct Adrian 
Flux to pay Mrs B compensation for the repairs to her vehicle or for any delays in the 
process of pursuing the third party. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs B is hoping for and I was sorry to learn of the 
distress and upset she says shes experienced since the accident. 
But for the reasons Ive explained, Im limited to what I can consider in this case and 
based on what I can look at and have seen so far, Ive set out what I think is a fair 
outcome. 
Its my understanding that Company A has been unable to recover Mrs Bs losses 
from the third party. So its worth noting that she may still be able to make a 
retrospective claim for the accident with her insurer directly and this is something she 
can explore separately if she wishes to do so.I gave both parties a chance to respond before issuing my final decision. Adrian Flux said it 
had nothing further to add. Mrs B said she disagreed with my decision and feels 
disappointed in this Service as a result. She said she is still very unhappy with Adrian Flux. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Bs disappointment regarding the circumstances of this case. But as Ive 
previously explained, the scope of what I can consider in this case under the rules I have to 
follow is limited. Therefore, much of what Mrs B is unhappy about, isnt something Im able to 
decide on. 
But Im satisfied the decision Ive made on what I can consider in this case is fair for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision. And Mrs B hasnt provided any further 
information that changes this. It follows I dont uphold this complaint and wont be directing 
Adrian Flux to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman