DRN-3822147
The complaint
Ms F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt refunded her for the losses she suffered 
when she fell victim to an investment scam.
What happened
During the course of this investment scam, Ms F sent money from accounts she holds with 
four separate banks. The details of the scam itself remained the same and are detailed 
below. Due to the overlapping nature of the payments and the scam itself there will of 
necessity be some repetition in what follows. However, in what follows I have considered 
what happened in so far as it relates to Barclays. 
Ms F holds a current account with Barclays. Around the start of June 2021, Ms F saw what 
appeared to be an investment opportunity posted on a social media website by an individual 
who Ill refer to as S. Ms F says she saw screenshots showing text messages where S had 
apparently made profits for other clients and received positive comments in return. Ms F 
responded to a poll to say she was interested in getting involved.
She was later contacted on a messaging platform by S. Ms F was told the investment would 
be low risk with high returns. The returns shown ranged from £1,500 on a £500 investment 
to £4,500 on a £1,000 investment, with a guarantee for first time traders. Ms F says she 
thought this did sound too good to be true - but based on what looked to be positive 
messages from other clients she thought the trader looked to be legitimate.
Ms F decided to go ahead. S sent her details of the account number, sort-code, and payee 
name. The name was completely different to Ss name and Ms F queried who the payee 
was. S responded that it was simply someone in the finance team.  
Ms F then attempted to make an initial payment of £2,000, sending this from an account she 
holds at another bank. This sum was higher than the minimum starting investment of £500  
Ms F explains that was not a large amount of money to her at the time. She keyed in the 
account details as instructed by S. But the other bank blocked the initial payment instruction 
(and a second attempt). It spoke to Ms F before it would release the funds. 
S suggested to Ms F that she should tell her bank that the payment was going to a friend or 
family member and not to mention anything about trading or investment. Ms F was told if she 
mentioned anything about trading or investment she would be taxed on the profits. Ms F 
says she believed she was following the advice of a financial expert and had no reason to 
question why they were telling her to lie to the bank. 
The scammer hadnt given Ms F a specific cover story to use, so when her bank queried 
what the payment was for, Ms F says she had to invent one. She says her gut feeling 
was that this wasnt the right thing to do, but she wanted to go ahead and thought she might 
miss the investment opportunity. She told her bank that she was lending money to her friend 
whod promised to repay her. After further questioning, the bank accepted Ms Fs story. She 
was then able to send the payment.
A few hours later, Ms F received a message saying shed already made over £4,400 profit. 
This was in line with the returns shed seen on the messages from other clients of S. It 
was in the range that S had advertised would be achieved. 
Ms F asked to withdraw the money but was told shed need to pay a fee  although S told 
her this would be refunded when the withdrawal was sent. When Ms F was being asked to 
make this payment (which was being sent to a different account from the initial payment), 
Ms F noticed that the reference shed been told to use was a name other than her own. 
When she queried this, S confirmed it was a mistake, and that Ms F should use her own 
name.
In the following week, Ms F proceeded to send money to cover what she believed to be 
various fees and costs - being told more than once that the latest fee was the last fee shed 
need to pay. At the point Ms F had sent five payments, and was being asked to pay more, 
she told S she didnt feel comfortable sending more. S then sent her a picture of a driving 
licence, as identification. This appeared to match the pictures of the person whose social 
media account Ms F had first seen. Ms F says this helped persuade her that S was genuine.
Over the course of these payments, S provided a few different account numbers, sort-
codes and payee names to use. Again, Ms F believed the account names were those of 
Ss finance team. Ms F made these payments from different bank accounts she holds, 
borrowing some of the money she needed.
Two of these payments were sent by Ms F from her Barclays account. Both were sent on 
8 June 2021, and both went to the same payee, whom Ms F believed to be another member 
of the finance team. 
While inputting the payment instructions into her Barclays banking app, Ms F was asked 
what the purpose of each payment was. She chose the option Friends, Family or Partner 
as the payment option  in line with what S had previously suggested. 
These payments were for £1,000 and £1,050, meaning that the total sent from 
Ms Fs Barclays account was £2,050.
On 12 June, Ms F sent two final payments from other bank accounts she holds. At this point 
she was told the investment money would be with her soon.
However, after Ms F had waited over a week, S asked Ms F for yet another payment, 
this time to expedite Ms Fs withdrawal of her money. Ms F said shed continue to wait. The 
following day Ms F found shed been blocked from contacting S through either the social 
media website or the messaging app theyd been using. She realised shed been scammed 
and reported the matter to her banks and Action Fraud.
As soon as it was notified, Barclays immediately tried to recover the money Ms F had sent to 
the scammer from its account. Unfortunately, no money remained in the recipient account, 
having already been moved on as part of the scam.
Barclays then looked into what had happened as an Authorised Push Payment scam (APP 
scam) under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the 
CRM Code). The CRM Code can provide additional protection when customers fall victim to 
APP scams such as this. 
Barclays didnt think it was liable to reimburse Ms F under the CRM Code. It didnt think 
Ms F had a reasonable basis for believing this was a legitimate transaction when shed sent 
the two payments. When Ms F had input the payment instruction into her Barclays banking app, shed been asked the purpose of the payments, but not told the bank the true reason 
behind them.
Ms F didnt accept this. She referred her complaint to our service for an impartial review. 
Our Investigator thought Ms F had (and reasonably ought to have had) concerns about 
several aspects of what she was being told. He didnt think Ms A had a reasonable basis for 
believing she was making the payment for a legitimate investment. So, he thought 
Barclays was entitled to rely on the relevant exception to reimbursement under the CRM 
Code. 
While the Investigator thought Barclays ought to have provided an effective scam warning at 
the time of the second payment on 8 June, he didnt think this would have had a material 
effect on preventing the scam because Ms F had deliberately obscured the true payment 
reason and that had meant any warning message would not have been relevant.
Ms F didnt accept the investigators view on the matter. In light of this disagreement, I have 
been asked to reach a final decision on her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Ms F. I can understand entirely why she 
wants back the money she lost, and why she doesnt accept the bank neednt take 
responsibility.
But while I have sympathy for Ms F in what happened, I have to recognise that the principal 
cause of her losses here was the scammer who deceived her. Even though this was a scam 
and Ms F lost money to this scam, Barclays does not necessarily have a responsibility to 
refund her in these circumstances. As a starting point, because Ms F authorised the relevant 
payments, she is presumed liable for them. 
However, the CRM Code can provide additional protection for the victims of APP scams. Im 
satisfied these payments were the result of an APP scam and fall within the scope of the 
CRM Code.
The CRM Code wont always require a bank to refund its customer. It says the bank may 
choose not to fully reimburse its customer in some circumstances  where the bank can 
establish it is entitled to apply one (or more) of the exceptions to full reimbursement. 
Barclays says it has established that here, specifically, that Ms F made the payments without 
holding a reasonable basis for believing that she was making a payment to a legitimate 
investment.
Ive therefore considered whether Barclays has established that such an exception can be 
fairly applied  in other words, that Ms F made the payments without holding that reasonable 
basis for belief. In determining this point, I have carefully considered everything Ms F 
has submitted (and what has been submitted on her behalf by her professional 
representative) as well as the other evidence available to me.This scam had some features that made it seem more genuine, such as at one point Ms F 
receiving a copy of identification for S. But there were other features that I think should have 
led Ms F to have genuine concerns that all might not be as it seemed.
Looking over the content of the chat messages from the time, it seems to me that Ms F had 
some doubts, and essentially did so from the outset. When she discussed what happened 
with our Investigator, she acknowledged that what was being offered did seem too good to 
be true. 
I think Ms F was right to think this - the guarantee and the offer to triple her initial investment 
within hours were unrealistic and were too good to be true. Ms F wasnt given any 
explanation how such a fast and large rate of profit could possibly be achieved (or how such 
a guarantee could be provided). Ms Fs doubts here were entirely justified. 
Ms F also picked up on errors in what she was being told by S. She identified the mismatch 
in some of the payment details she was given  such as the payees name being different to 
that of the person she was messaging on the very first payment she made and later, being 
given a payment reference to use that wasnt her own name. Ms F also picked up where 
S got her name completely wrong  for a second time - in another message.
And more than once in the chat history, Ms F indicated she wasnt sure about the 
payments she was being asked to make. She told S I hope this works out, []bit worrying 
and questioned whether she should trust this or not. That last comment was just after S 
had asked for the payments Ms F would send from her Barclays account.
All considered, Im satisfied that Ms F identified risks she was taking in making the 
payments and several signs that all was perhaps not right. I have seen nothing to make me 
think she was unable to have taken appropriate steps in response. Rather, I think 
unfortunately she chose to proceed knowing those risks, because of the high returns she 
was being promised and because S kept prompting her to pay.
When Ms F chose a payment reason for each of the two Barclays payments, she picked 
what she did (Friend, Family or Partner) with the intention of deliberately misleading the 
bank about what was really happening. Of course, I appreciate she did so because shed 
been encouraged to do that by the scammer. Shed been told by the scammer that if she 
mentioned the true purpose, shed have to pay tax on the profits.
But fundamentally, Ms F was being told to lie to her bank to evade tax that she should 
presumably otherwise be liable for. Evading tax that shed normally be required to pay (and 
doing so by deliberate deception) isnt something I think Ms F could reasonably have thought 
was legitimate. I think being advised to do so, and to do so by deliberately deceiving her 
bank is something that should have caused Ms F concern. 
Taking everything into account and looking at the discussion she had with the scammer, 
I think ultimately Ms F decided to go ahead and send these two payments in awareness of 
the risks she was taking - that these might not be legitimate transactions for a genuine 
investment. That means I cant fairly conclude she made the payments with a reasonable 
basis for believing they were legitimate. So, I agree that Barclays has been able to establish 
it can fairly apply the exception to full reimbursement under the CRM Code.
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Barclays should take reasonable steps to provide a 
customer with an effective warning where it identifies an APP scam risk in the course of a 
payment journey. Here, I think the quick succession of the second payment relative to the 
first (a matter of minutes) mean that while the size of the payment was not exceptional for 
Ms F, Barclays arguably ought to have considered the risk of an APP scam and provided Ms F with a scam warning on her banking app.
Barclays hasnt argued that it did give an effective warning here, but even if it didnt, that 
doesnt necessarily mean it is liable to reimburse Ms F under the terms of the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code the nature of the warning given should reflect the specific APP scam 
risk type that has been identified. 
Here, I think Barclays couldnt reasonably have been expected to identify the true cause of 
the payment instruction and hence the underlying APP scam risk (because of the steps 
taken by Ms F to disguise this  albeit inadvertently  when she gave a false reason for the 
payments being made). Any warning Barclays could reasonably be expected to have given 
to Ms F would therefore have reflected a fundamentally different scam risk. I dont think an 
unrelated warning would likely have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam that 
took place. That means I dont find Barclays has any liability under the relevant provisions of 
the CRM Code and isnt required to reimburse Ms F under the code.
The CRM Code does not represent the full extent of the obligations on Barclays. The Code 
can provide additional protection where it is relevant. Nonetheless I have also considered 
whether there is any reason that Ms F might be entitled to reimbursement outside the 
provisions of the CRM Code. But I dont think Barclays failed to meet the other obligations it 
was under, or that Barclays should be liable to reimburse Ms F for another reason.
Barclays has already paid Ms F £150 in respect of delays in handling her case. I think this 
sum was appropriate in the circumstances. I dont require Barclays to pay more.
In saying all of this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear that Ms F was the victim of 
this scam. The actions of those behind the scam are wholly cynical and Ms F was the victim 
of a crime. She ultimately paid over a considerable sum in the hope shed receive a 
significant profit and has ended up significantly out of pocket. Shes explained about the 
impact this has had on her credit record because of the funds she borrowed at the time.
But I can only look at Barclays actions here. I cannot hold the bank liable for the actions of 
the scammer who tricked and deceived Ms F. I can only make an award if I find Barclays 
was at fault in some way or is otherwise required to refund her under the terms of the CRM 
Code.
With that in mind, and based on what Ive seen, I dont find Barclays is responsible for the 
losses Ms F suffered here and it doesnt need to refund her. I understand that this is not the 
outcome Ms F wants and I recognise the impact all of this has had on her. But I can 
reassure Ms F that Ive carefully considered all the circumstances of her complaint before 
reaching what I consider to be the fair and reasonable decision in all of the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Fs complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman