DRN-1734306
 
Complaint
Mrs G complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the PPI was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) have taken 
responsibility for this sale and so the complaint has been set up against AXA.
To keep things simple, Ive only referred to AXA during this decision.
Background
Mrs G took out a store card in 1994. She was sold the PPI in connection with this card 
during a telephone call in 1995.
The PPI wouldve cost Mrs G no more than £1.00 per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. And as I understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if 
Mrs G was off work sick or lost her job until the outstanding balance had been cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld.
Mrs G didnt agree with our adjudicator and the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mrs G would have been eligible for the policy. And based 
on Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of the sale, for example her age and her employment, 
its likely that she would have been.
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs G that the PPI was optional and needed Mrs Gs consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mrs G says she didnt agree to take out PPI.
I note that the PPI was sold several months after the store card had been taken out. So I 
think its more likely that Mrs G would have been aware that the PPI was optional and was 
not dependent on her being approved for the card. 
Unfortunately, AXA no longer have a call recording or transcript from the time of the sale  
this is understandable given the length of time since the sale so I cant hold this against 
AXA.  Equally understandably I wouldnt now expect Mrs G to recall this sale in any detail. 
But what all this does mean is that I cant say its more likely that AXA applied the PPI to the account without Mrs Gs consent. Particularly given that PPI wasnt applied to the account 
when Mrs G first took the card out and was only applied once AXA called Mrs G a few 
months later to specifically sell PPI and their records show that this is when PPI was applied 
to the account.
So, while I appreciate what Mrs G has told us, based on what Ive seen, I think its more 
likely that PPI was presented as optional and was only applied to the account because Mrs 
G chose to take it out. 
From the information available to me and what I know of their sales practice at the time, I 
dont think AXA advised Mrs G to take the policy out. This means they didnt have to take 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mrs G. So, for example, AXA didnt have to ask 
about or consider Mrs Gs existing provisions or assess if the PPI was affordable for Mrs G.
But AXA did have to give Mrs G clear information so that she could make a proper choice 
about whether to take the policy out. I cant say that AXA gave Mrs G all the information as 
they shouldve about the costs/benefits of the policy or the main exclusions and restrictions. 
So, I have to go on and consider whether better information wouldve put Mrs G off taking 
the policy out. I dont think it wouldve. I say this because:
 
The PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs G would have been 
entitled to and for a much longer period of time, potentially until Mrs Gs outstanding 
balance had been cleared. It would also have paid out alongside Mrs Gs savings. 
Mrs G could have used her savings for other living expenses while the PPI took care 
of her store card repayments. The PPI would also have paid out if Mrs G lost her job.
 
Mrs G has also told us that funds from her parents (fathers account), and partner 
could have helped meet her repayments. And she has told us about a property she 
held. However, circumstances change and these other methods of obtaining funds 
werent guaranteed at the point at which she may have needed them. And ultimately 
the point of PPI would have been to avoid Mrs G having to rely on help from others 
(or using her property) to make the repayments.
 
Mrs G didnt appear to have been affected by the more restrictive terms in the policy 
such as those relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements. So, it seems like Mrs G could have made a successful claim under 
the policy if the need arose.
 
I havent seen any evidence which would suggest that the PPI was unaffordable for 
Mrs G at the time of the sale. 
 
Mrs G couldve cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially if she no 
longer wanted it.
 
So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mrs G was mis-sold this PPI policy. 
My final decisionI dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman