DRN-2753848
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds (Admirals) decision to 
refuse to cover a claim on her motor insurance policy after an accident. She also complains 
about its handling of that claim.
Mrs Cs husband has also been involved with this complaint. But Ill only refer to her here.
What happened
Mrs C had motor insurance with Admiral. Whilst Mrs C was away from home, her son took 
her car without her consent. But he only held a provisional licence. 
He was involved in a road traffic accident in Mrs Cs car. The police attended the scene of 
the accident and impounded the car.
Admiral declined to cover Mrs Cs claim because her son was driving outside the 
permissions of his licence. The policy excludes cover for loss or damage where the driving 
licence conditions are broken. 
After a period of investigation, Admiral determined that Mrs C was responsible for all the 
costs incurred to both her vehicle and the third-party vehicle. The costs were significant. Mrs 
C has a separate complaint about the size of those costs. So I wont cover them in any detail 
in this decision.
Admiral said that itd taken reasonable steps to try to cover Mrs Cs claim. And that this had 
taken time. But itd incorrectly told Mrs C that if the police report had recorded that the car 
was taken without her consent, all costs couldve been covered by the insurance policy. 
Mrs C complained to Admiral. She was unhappy that shed been deemed liable for the full 
accident costs. She felt this was because of how Admiral had interpreted the police report. 
She was also unhappy with how Admiral had handled the claim. She said she was prepared 
to pay for the repairs to her own car. But felt that Admiral should cover the third-party costs. 
She also wanted Admiral to admit that itd badly handled her claim and caused her 
unnecessary distress.
Admiral upheld part of Mrs Cs complaint. It agreed that the claims process had taken longer 
than it shouldve. It also agreed that Mrs C hadnt always received accurate or legible 
correspondence from it, when issuing letters, forms and on calls. It offered her £50 for the 
trouble and upset itd caused. But it didnt uphold other aspects of her complaint. 
Unhappy with its response, Mrs C brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold it. She said she was satisfied that Admiral had fairly and reasonably applied the 
policy terms when declining Mrs Cs claim. 
Mrs C didnt agree with something our investigator had said. She told us that Admiral had 
told her that if the incident had been recorded as a theft or taken without consent (TWOC), it 
wouldve been able to cover her repair costs and deal with the third-party claim without 
needing to pass those costs on to her. So our investigator asked Admiral to explain. 
Admiral accepted it hadnt been clear that even if the car had been registered as TWOC, it 
wouldnt have paid Mrs Cs claim under the policy. So our investigator considered whether 
the incorrect information Admiral had given Mrs C had affected her claims outcome. 
She concluded that it wouldnt have made any difference to the outcome of the claim. So she 
didnt change her view. 
So Mrs C asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has asked me to not rely solely on the terms of the policy. Shed like me to take into 
account the misinformation and mishandling of the claim she feels shes received. I can 
assure her that I will take all of the evidence into account. Our approach in cases like this is 
to not only consider whether the insurer has acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. But also to see whether its acted fairly and reasonably. 
Unfortunately, having considered everything, Ive come to the same conclusion as our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
The policy document includes the following wording:
Extra Conditions (endorsements)
1. Provisional licence holder
You will not be covered if your car is being driven by, or is in the possession of, a 
Provisional Driving Licence holder who is not keeping to the terms and limitations of their 
Licence.
So the policy doesnt cover any loss where the driver is in breach of conditions in their 
driving licence. Its clear that Mrs Cs son breached the conditions of his driving licence when 
he took her car without her consent and drove it without proper supervision. 
Admiral said that the driver was driving outside the terms of his provisional licence and so he 
was in breach of the policy terms and conditions. So it was entitled to decline to cover Mrs 
Cs claim. It also said: Because of that breach, we could not indemnify him, but we still had 
an obligation under the Road Traffic Act (1988) to deal with the innocent third party's claim.
So Admiral did pay the other drivers claim as it was required to do under the Road Traffic 
Act. And has since been pursuing Mrs C for the recovery of those costs, which she believes 
are too high. I know that Mrs C wouldve preferred me to cover the third-party costs as part 
of this complaint. But unfortunately that hasnt been possible as the complaint needs to be 
assessed by Admiral first.
I can see from the claim notes that Mrs C reported the incident the day after it happened. 
The notes from that call explain that Admiral told Mrs C that the only way it could cover the 
claim would be for the incident to be reported and potentially prosecuted as a theft. If this 
didnt happen, Mrs C could be liable for the third-party costs as the claim had already been 
repudiated under the provisional license breach.
Mrs C understandably didnt want to report the incident as theft. She didnt believe her son 
had intended to steal her car. Admiral has also clarified that even if the incident had been 
reported in this way: It may not have improved the situation for the family, though, as we 
would still be entitled to try to recover the money from her son. In the weeks following the incident, I can see that there was some confusion over whether 
the third-party claim costs wouldve been covered by Admiral if the incident had been 
recorded as TWOC. For example, Admiral told Mrs C that if the police report had recorded 
the car as TWOC, all costs couldve been covered. That wasnt right, as Mrs Cs policy also 
excludes cover if the car is: taken or driven without your consent by someone who normally 
lives with you as part of your household or who is your partner.
I acknowledge that this has been a source of frustration to Mrs C. As it seemed that had the 
police recorded the incident in a different way, she wouldnt have been liable for the third-
party costs. But that isnt the case. As her son lived in the same household as her the only 
way for Admiral to cover the third-party claim costs would be if theft had been recorded and 
potentially prosecuted. And even then, Admiral couldve tried to recover those costs from 
Mrs Cs son.
I know Mrs C hopes that I can over-ride the terms and conditions of the policy due to the 
incorrect information she was given. If Id found that the incorrect information had affected 
the chances of a successful claim I mightve been able to do that. But Im not persuaded that 
it did. 
So even though I acknowledge that Mrs C wasnt always given fully accurate information, Im 
not persuaded that it made any difference to the outcome of her claim. 
I can only imagine what a stressful time this has been for Mrs C and her family. And Im 
sorry for what shes going through. But, having looked at all the evidence, I dont think 
Admiral has treated her unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman