DRN-3947447
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to deposit cheques 
into the business account, and then said the cheques had been returned to him on the same 
day when they hadnt. 
Dr G is Bs director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf. 
B has an account with HSBC. 
What happened
Dr G says in October 2021 he deposited cheques into the company account using the 
deposit ATM in branch. The cheques totalled £328. 
Dr G says he received a voicemail from the HSBC branch where he paid in the cheques and 
was told it was unable to deposit them into the company account since they were made out 
to Dr G, rather than the business name. HSBC asked whether Dr G wanted the cheques 
paid into his personal account or whether he wanted to come in and collect them. 
Dr G says he called the number given to him but the number didnt exist. So he contacted 
his local branch which connected him to a call centre. His call was then cut off. Dr G says he 
called HSBCs business account number but there was no answer on that line. 
HSBC said it had posted the cheques back to Dr G on the same day he tried to deposit 
them. Dr G says he was asked whether he wanted to collect the cheques so doesnt think 
they would have been posted at all, and certainly not on the same day. He says he never 
received the cheques in any event. 
Dr G complained to HSBC. He says as a result of HSBCs failure to deposit the cheques into 
the business account B has lost £328 in income and Dr G would like to be compensated for 
his time. 
HSBC said since the cheques werent made out to B it was unable to deposit them into Bs 
business account. HSBC said the cheques had been posted back to Dr G on the same day.  
It accepted Dr G had been provided with an incorrect contact number when the bank tried to 
contact him to discuss the cheques, and that Dr G had difficulty in getting through to the 
business telephone banking team. HSBC paid Dr G £40 to recognise the inconvenience 
caused. 
Dr G didnt agree with HSBCs response to the complaint he brought on behalf of B. And so 
the complaint was referred to this service. Our investigator looked into things for B. He 
upheld the complaint. He said there was a delay in returning the cheques of some six weeks 
and so he told HSBC to pay a further £60 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Dr G didnt agree with the investigators view. And so the complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. Im upholding 
the complaint Dr G has made on behalf of B. And I agree with the investigator that HSBC 
should pay B a further £60, in addition to the £40 already paid, in settlement of the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Its important to note my role here is to look at whether HSBC has acted within its terms and 
conditions and treated B fairly and reasonably. Im not able to address the wider issues of 
how HSBC organise its internal process as thats not my role. 
I understand Dr Gs frustration. He was told he needed to collect the cheques, then told the 
cheques had been posted to him, and he was unable to speak to anyone at HSBC in order 
to resolve the matter. 
The cheques were made out to Dr G rather than B. And so HSBC said it was unable to 
deposit them. I cant comment on HSBCs processes. So while I know Dr G is unhappy the 
cheques couldnt be deposited, I cant say HSBC was wrong in not depositing them. But that 
did inconvenience Dr G. Especially since he was told the cheques had been sent back to 
him but they didnt arrive.
Ive thought carefully about the extent of that inconvenience. Dr G became aware the 
cheques couldnt be deposited later on the same day. And he attempted to contact HSBC to 
try and resolve the issue. But he wasnt able to speak to anyone. And when HSBC did look 
into things it said the cheques had been sent back to him on the same day. But it doesnt 
appear that was the case. And the cheques were never received. 
Im satisfied the cheques were sent to B and the covering letter was correctly addressed. I 
cant hold HSBC responsible for B not receiving it through the post. But HSBC did tell Dr G 
the cheques were posted back on the same day in October but the letter enclosing the 
cheques is dated 22 November 2021. So there was some delay in sending the cheques 
back. 
Dr G says B is out of pocket since the cheques havent been deposited. But in 
circumstances such as this the cheques would need to be cancelled and reissued in the 
correct name in order for the funds to be deposited correctly. This isnt something I would 
expect HSBC to do since it didnt do anything wrong in not depositing them. So, I dont think 
HSBC are responsible if B is out of pocket.
Putting things right
Since it is B that has the account it is B that is entitled to bring the complaint and be awarded 
any redress. So I think £100 compensation is reasonable for this  the £40 already paid and 
the £60 I am directing HSBC to now pay.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im upholding Bs complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc and 
direct HSBC to pay B a further £60 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman