DRN-3606439
The complaint
Mr W complains that Jaja Finance Ltd (Jaja) gave him poor customer service and increased 
the cash interest rate on his account.
What happened
Mr W had a credit card with a third party company which migrated to Jaja. He says that he 
suffered poor customer service and long call waiting times. Mr W says that no changes were 
supposed to happen with interest rates and charges when his account was migrated to Jaja, 
but his cash interest rate was increased from 24.8% to 24.9% and his statement showed an 
estimated interest charge of £16.55 for the following month.
Mr W made a complaint to Jaja, who partially upheld Mr Ws complaint. They said they were 
unable to find any details for when the cash interest rate was 24.8%. They said due to the 
number of times that Mr W had to phone them and get an answer to this, they would credit 
his account with a £20 goodwill gesture. Mr W declined the compensation and brought his 
complaint to our service. He said Jaja did not investigate his complaint properly.
Jaja contacted our investigator to say that their response to Mr W was not accurate. They 
explained that the reason for the cash interest rate displaying differently was because before 
the account was migrated to Jaja, the previous company truncated the interest rates 
whereas Jaja rounded the interest rate to one decimal place. Jaja confirmed that the 
underlying numbers used to compute interest was identical to those used pre-migration. This 
meant that if Mr W spent in an identical manner, he would be charged the same amount of 
interest on a cash advance, and thats why no interest change had taken place despite the 
statements showing a 0.1% difference in cash interest rates. In light of this, Jaja offered Mr 
W an extra £50 compensation on top of the £20 they had already offered him. 
Mr W did not accept the total of £70 compensation. Our investigator said that the total of £70 
compensation was fair. He said that credit card statements tend to show how much 
estimated interest a customer may pay if the outstanding balance wasnt paid in full. He said 
that based on Mr W facing inconvenience and the time he spent on the phone to get 
answers (which werent initially answered correctly), then £70 reflected the impact this would 
have had on Mr W.
Mr W asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that £70 did not reflect his 
time spent dealing with this matter, his mobile call costs, the stress and inconvenience of 
dealing with this matter. Mr W said that £1,050 compensation would be fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the 
circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account 
relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial business 
has failed its customer in any way.
Where we find it has, we make awards designed to make the business put things right with 
the complainant customer. Our awards are not designed to punish a business or to make it 
change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in the future. That is the role of the 
regulator.
Mr W has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I must explain to Mr W that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as 
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how Jaja have investigated his complaint, 
such as the contents of his final response letter dont come under my powers to consider. 
But I can look into the poor customer service that Mr W received from Jaja.
Ive considered what Mr W has said about his statement showing an estimated interest 
charge on his statement when his account migrated to Jaja. He has highlighted that his 
October 2020 statement showed estimated interest of £16.55. But this would be the 
estimated interest that he would pay if Jaja only received the minimum repayment 
documented on his statement on the due date. This is consistent with the previous month 
(September 2020), the statement before his account migrated, where it showed the 
estimated interest for the following month would be £21.08. Mr W appears to pay his 
statement balance off in full each month, so he would not incur any purchase interest if the 
statement balance was paid off in full each month by the payment due date. So I cant say 
Jaja have done anything wrong here.
Mr W was concerned that Jaja had increased the cash interest rate when his account 
migrated to them, when he was told there would be no changes to any charges or interest. 
So when Mr W rang Jaja, he should have been told the correct answer that the reason for 
the cash interest rate displaying differently was because the previous company truncated the 
interest rates, whereas Jaja rounded the interest rate to one decimal place. But if Mr W 
spent in an identical manner, he would be charged the same amount of interest on a cash 
advance, as he wouldve been before the account migrated.
But this isnt what happened. Mr W had to contact Jaja several times to find out why there 
was a difference to the cash interest rate on his statements from September 2020, where it 
displayed 24.8% to October 2020, where it displayed 24.9%. This will have inconvenienced 
Mr W and hes told us this caused him stress. 
Ive listened to a call where he spoke to the financial difficulties department about the 
apparent change in interest rate and estimated interest next month. The call handler 
explains he wouldnt be able to answer the question and transfers Mr W to another 
department. Mr W is frustrated as he had been given the phone number from a previous call 
handler he spoke to, so it appears that Mr W had been given he wrong telephone number. 
So Mr W was inconvenienced by the six minutes he spent on the phone to the call handler, 
when he could have been speaking to someone who may have been able to answer his 
questions.
Ive considered what Mr W said about the costs of the calls he had to make. I asked him if he 
could provide his phone bill to evidence the charges hed incurred. Mr W informed me that 
he was no longer with the phone provider and didnt know how long they would keep his 
records for. I asked Jaja about their call costs. Jaja confirmed that the telephone number was free to call (or inclusive of a customers phone or mobile usage plan). So Im persuaded 
that Mr W would not have incurred any costs by ringing Jaja.
Ive considered what would be fair to pay Mr W for the customer service issues hes faced. 
He said he thought £1,050 would be fair and reasonable. It may help if I explain to Mr W that 
compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business 
has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer 
over and above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend 
compensation, it is often modest and within our established guidelines.
Our service also doesnt generally award compensation based on an hourly rate. And there 
would always be time and effort required to bring a complaint, first to the business and then 
to our service. Instead, we consider the overall impact an error had on someone. 
Mr Ws statements clearly explain how the estimated interest is calculated (page 1 of the 
September 2020 statement and page 2 of his October 2020 statement), so I cant say he 
would need to speak to a call handler about this. While the difference in the cash interest 
rate was displayed differently on Mr Ws statements before and after his account migrated to 
Jaja, this did not directly affect Mr W as he didnt incur any cash interest charges, so I cant 
say he paid more cash interest in October than September 2020, when this did not affect 
him financially. But this is not to say that he wouldnt use his card in a way which would incur 
cash interest in the future. As Mr W wanted to speak to Jaja about this, he would have 
always needed to have spent time speaking to Jaja about this issue.
But Jaja have explained that there were long call waiting times due to an increased volume 
of calls when the accounts migrated to them. They have acknowledged that the customer 
service Mr W was provided with wasnt how they would expect it to be and that their 
explanation of how the cash interest was displayed on his statement before the migration of 
his account and after the migration of his account wasnt explained properly to Mr W. 
I would agree that the £20 they initially offered to Mr W would not reflect the impact the 
customer service should have had on him. But I think the increase of £50 to total £70 for the 
poor customer service is fair. Im persuaded that this would reflect the longer than normal 
waiting times, being given the telephone number of a different department and him not being 
given the accurate answers to the questions he asked. 
I say this as if Jaja had not increased their offer of compensation by £50, then this is what I 
would have broadly increased the compensation by. So Im persuaded that the offer is fair. 
So it follows, Ill be asking Jaja to pay Mr W the £70 that they offered him, but I wont require 
them to do anything further.
My final decision
Jaja Finance Ltd has already made an offer to pay £70 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my final decision is that Jaja Finance Ltd should pay Mr W £70.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman