DRN-2645567
The complaint
Mr O complains that Experian Limited gave an incorrect reference to a prospective 
employer. Mr O says that as a result, the employer withdrew its offer of employment.
What happened
Experian offers employers various candidate verification services. Mr Os prospective 
employer used Experian to gather information about Mr O. 
Mr O says that Experian made it appear he had a poor credit rating because of a County 
Court Judgment (CCJ) that hed repaid more than two years ago. Mr O says Experians 
reference made it seem that hed left his previous employment for different reasons to the 
ones that Mr O gave.
Experian denied that it had made a mistake. The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Os 
complaint be upheld. 
Mr O was unhappy with the investigators recommendation. He felt that wed sided with 
Experian. Mr O thought that Experian shouldve told his prospective employer exactly what 
his former employer said about not providing references instead of saying it wasnt a match. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We are an independent and impartial service  we dont take sides. So, I want to reassure 
Mr O that I have considered everything hes said to us. 
I understand Mr Os frustration that an offer of employment was withdrawn but I cant 
reasonably find that this was down to any mistake that Experian made.
Although Mr O repaid the judgment debt, he didnt do so within a month of it being issued. 
This means that the CCJ will appear on Mr Os credit report for six years from the date of 
issue. Its up to a prospective employer - not Experian - to decide what view it takes about a 
CCJ when considering a candidate. 
Mr Os previous employer has a policy of not giving reasons why an employee has left. It 
wasnt therefore possible for Experian to confirm all the details Mr O gave about his 
employment were correct. I cant find Experian responsible for any negative impression that 
Mr Os potential employer may have formed as a result. I also havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that this was the only reason why Mr Os job offer was withdrawn. So even if I had 
been persuaded that Experian did make a mistake with Mr Os reference, I wouldnt uphold 
his complaint. 
I am sorry that Mr O is likely to be disappointed by my decision, but I dont find that Experian 
should pay him compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman