DRN-3669411
The complaint
Ms D as trustee of the D trust complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) 
declined a claim made on her critical illness policy. 
Ms D as trustee of the D trust is being supported in bringing this complaint by her sister. But, 
for ease, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of Ms D. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview of key events here. 
Ms D bought a decreasing term life assurance and critical illness policy in 2003, from a 
company Aviva later became responsible for. The policy term was 20 years and the initial 
sum assured was £51,500. The policy included Total and Permanent Disability (TPD) cover, 
based on a definition of activities of daily living (ADL). 
Ms D, unfortunately, has a number of physical and mental health conditions. She stopped 
working at the end of 2018 and was assessed by her employer as medically unfit to work in 
around May 2020. The Department of Work and Pensions assessed Ms D as eligible for 
Personal Independence Payments (PIP). 
Ms D submitted a claim to Aviva in August 2020. She provided a good deal of medical 
information which Aviva used to begin its assessment of the claim under the TPD cover. 
Aviva spoke to Ms D in mid-September 2020 and told her the medical evidence she 
submitted provided extensive information about her inability to work, but her claim must be 
assessed on her ability to carry out the ADLs. It offered Ms D a video based occupational 
health (OH) assessment, given covid restrictions at the time. Ms D said that given her vision 
problems, she would prefer a face to face assessment. 
Aviva told Ms D that a request for a face to face assessment was passed to its OH provider 
at the end of September 2020. 
Ms D complained to Aviva in October 2020 as she thought it had enough medical 
information to assess her claim without the need for an OH assessment. She also 
complained about the time taken to assess the claim. Ms D asked for her claim to be looked 
at by Avivas Chief Medical Officer (CMO). 
Aviva wrote to Ms D in mid-October 2020 and provided the CMOs comments. In brief, these 
said although Ms D had significant diagnoses causing substantial chronic and ongoing 
morbidity, and had been awarded ill-health early retirement, the CMO could not see any 
medical evidence that ordinarily suggested Ms D would fail three of the ADL tests. The CMO 
said there would be times when Ms D would find some if not all of the ADLs challenging, but 
there was no medical reason why they would consistently and permanently fail when her 
conditions normalised. The CMO said that if a more formal assessment was needed, then a 
face to face or video OH assessment would need to be arranged. 
Avivas OH provider said in October 2020 that it was unable to offer a face to face 
appointment at that time because of covid restrictions. So Ms Ds claim assessment was put 
on hold. 
Aviva responded to Ms Ds complaint in October 2020. It explained that for Ms Ds claim to 
be successful, she must be unable to perform at least three of the ADLs with or without the 
use of medical equipment. It said that although Ms D had provided quite a lot of medical 
evidence, its claims team needed to clarify her limitations in relation to the policy definition. 
Aviva said its OH assessor wasnt able to offer a face to face appointment just yet because 
of covid restrictions, but that they would inform Ms D as soon as they were able to offer an 
appointment. 
Ms D then complained to this Service. Our Investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He said 
he thought Aviva acted fairly when it said there wasnt enough evidence to show whether 
Ms D could or couldnt perform the various ADLs. So, in spite of the covid related delays, he 
thought Aviva acted fairly in trying to schedule a face to face assessment.  
Ms D disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman. 
Ms D contacted this Service in mid-September 2021 to say that an Occupational Therapist 
(OT) had carried out a home visit in July 2021, but she hadnt yet been told the outcome of 
the assessment. So our Investigator contacted Aviva and requested an update. 
Aviva told this Service it obtained an independent functional assessment and, following this, 
decided that the criteria for TPD had not been met. It said it wrote to Ms D in October 2021 
to inform her of its decision. Aviva then provided this Service with a copy of the assessment 
and other relevant documents. 
Our Investigator looked at Ms Ds complaint again, in light of the new information, but didnt 
uphold it. He said the OT had assessed Ms D as being able to carry out most of the ADLs, 
except continence. Ms D disagreed with what our Investigator said, so this was passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to first of all clarify the type of cover Ms D has. Her TPD cover relates to her ability to 
carry out - or not - a particular set of tasks. These are the ADLs. So although Ms Ds health 
is such that she unfortunately had to retire early on medical grounds and is receiving PIP, 
the cover she has with Aviva does not relate to her ability to carry out paid employment. To 
decide if Aviva has acted fairly in declining her claim, I need to consider the evidence against 
the relevant terms of Ms Ds policy  those terms form part of the insurance contract 
between her and Aviva. 
Its clear Ms D has a number of physical and mental health conditions and theres no doubt 
her various medical conditions mean shes unable to do some of the things, like working and 
driving, that she was once able to do. I sympathise with Ms Ds situation. But its important to 
make clear TPD isnt about providing cover if a policyholder is diagnosed with medical 
conditions. Its about assessing the impact that the medical conditions have on the 
policyholders ability to do certain things. In this case, the ADLs outlined in the policy. 
I want to assure Ms D at this point that I have taken all of the information provided into 
consideration, even if not every point made by Ms D is mentioned in this decision. Ill only address the comments and evidence I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome. 
The issue Im looking at here is whether I think Aviva acted fairly when it said Ms D didnt 
meet the policy definition for TPD and so declined her claim. 
The TPD definition on Ms Ds policy is:  
total and permanent disability is such that before the Term Expiry Date the Life Assured is 
unable to perform at least three of the Activities of Daily Living (as defined below) both with 
or without the use of mechanical equipment, special devices or other aids and adaptations in 
use for disabled persons. This inability is expected to last throughout life, irrespective of 
when the cover ends or the Life Assured retires:
The Activities of Daily Living are defined as follows: 
Transfer and Mobility - The ability to move from one room to an adjoining room or from one 
side of a room to another or to get in and out of a bed or chair without requiring physical 
assistance of another person.
 
Continence - The ability to voluntarily control bowel or bladder functions such as to maintain 
personal hygiene. 
Dressing - Putting on and taking off all necessary items of clothing without requiring 
assistance of another person. 
Toileting - Getting to and from the toilet, transferring on and off the toilet and associated 
personal hygiene. 
Eating - All tasks of getting food into the body once it has been prepared.
For Ms D to have her claim paid, she would need to be assessed as being totally unable to 
do at least three of the ADLs, and for that inability to be permanent  so that its more likely 
than not the inability to carry out the tasks wont improve. 
In order to assess the claim, Aviva originally had its claim handlers go through the medical 
information provided and then asked Ms D to take part in a video assessment. Ms D 
expressed a preference for a face to face assessment, given the problems she has with her 
vision. Covid restrictions then, unfortunately, meant there was a longer wait than expected 
before a face to face assessment could be carried out. I dont think Aviva was responsible 
for that delay.
I know that Ms D thinks Aviva should have been able to rely on the medical information she 
provided it with to assess whether she was or wasnt able to carry out the ADLs. But Aviva 
said that while it appreciated Ms D sending in the medical evidence, it wanted its claims 
team to be able to clarify her limitations and restrictions in relation to the policy definition. 
Im satisfied Aviva acted fairly when it said a functional assessment was needed. If an 
insurer doesnt think that medical evidence answers specific questions about a consumers 
ability to undertake ADLs, then its reasonable for it to obtain a specialist report. In this case, 
Avivas CMO assessed the medical information provided by Ms D and decided they couldnt 
see any medical evidence that suggested Ms D would fail three of the ADL tests. So it was 
reasonable for Aviva to arrange for a functional assessment to be undertaken. The 
assessment was then carried out by an OT, so a suitably qualified professional. Face to face assessments allow for in-depth evaluations to be carried out that focus on the ADLs, and 
whether the consumer meets the policy definition for TPD. 
Ive looked at the assessment carried out by the OT in July 2021. I can see that the 
assessment was two hours long and that the OT looked at each ADL in some detail - 
assessing whether or not Ms D could carry out the task and providing detailed reasoning as 
to why. Im satisfied that a comprehensive enough assessment was carried out and I see no 
reason why Aviva shouldnt be able to rely on the findings. 
The OT concluded that Ms D was unable to perform one key area of ADLs as outlined in the 
policy, which was Continence. The OT was of the opinion that Ms D would remain unable to 
do so for the foreseeable future. The OT said Ms D has a complex clinical history, but at the 
time of the assessment she was able to manage most of the ADLs without assistance from 
another person. The OT said that due to the nature of her conditions, its likely Ms Ds 
function may decline over the course of time, and at that point a reassessment would be 
recommended. 
I know Ms D is likely to be disappointed with the outcome here, and I do sympathise with her 
situation. But given the conclusions reached by the OT, Im satisfied Aviva acted fairly when 
it declined her TPD claim. 
Ms D was concerned about the impact covid restrictions had on her claim in relation to the 
date any settlement amount might be paid from. But Im not upholding this complaint, so 
theres no need for me to consider when a claim might be paid from.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D as trustee of 
the D trust to accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman