DRN-3923385
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont allow him to withdraw 
money from his account.
What happened
Mr R went into Halifax branch to withdraw money from his account but was told that he 
would only be able to do so if he verified his identity by presenting two forms of accepted ID. 
Mr R returned to branch with ID documents, but these werent acceptable to Halifax and so 
he wasnt able to withdraw money from his account as he wanted. Mr R wasnt happy about 
this, so he raised a complaint. 
Halifax responded to Mr Rs complaint and explained that the requirement for identity 
verification was a policy designed to protect the account against potential fraud, and that 
Halifax didnt feel theyd acted unfairly towards Mr R by applying that policy. Mr R wasnt 
satisfied with Halifaxs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Halifax had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Halifax have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations would 
be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I can appreciate how Mr R might be frustrated that hes been unable to withdraw the money 
from his Halifax account as he would like. But Halifax have explained that, prior to Mr Rs 
request to withdraw the money, the account had been credited with a large sum of money 
and that their requirement for a withdrawing party to verify their identity was a policy 
designed to protect that money and prevent it being withdrawn by unauthorised persons.
Halifaxs position here seems reasonable to me, and I dont feel that its unfair that Halifax 
would ask Mr R to verify his identity to their satisfaction before allowing withdrawals from the 
account in question.
Additionally, Halifax presented Mr R with a list of ID documents which they consider 
acceptable. And while Mr R did return to Halifaxs branch with ID documents, these didnt 
correspond to the list of acceptable documents that were acceptable to Halifax. For instance, 
Mr R presented Halifax with an out-of-date passport, whereas Halifax required the passport 
to be in date for it to be considered valid.
I appreciate that Mr R may feel that the documents that he has presented to Halifax should 
be considered acceptable by them. But its for Halifax to decide which ID verification 
documents they consider acceptable, and I wouldnt consider instructing a business to 
accept documents that arent acceptable to their standards.
However, if Mr R isnt reasonably able to provide the forms of ID verification that Halifax 
require, it would be expected that Halifax would work with Mr R to allow him to gain access 
to his account via some other means of confirming his identity. 
As such, I can only encourage Mr R to engage with Halifax and to either present the forms of 
ID verification that they require, or, if this isnt possible, to explain to Halifax why it isnt 
possible and ask what can reasonably be done to allow him access to his account as he 
would like.
Ultimately though, as things presently stand, I dont feel that Halifax have acted unfairly 
towards Mr R here for the reasons explained above. And it follows from this that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Halifax to take any further action  although I do also 
encourage Halifax to engage with Mr R to find an acceptable way forwards in the manner 
described above.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr R was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman