DRN-4160568
The complaint
Mrs O complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed her accounts without notice nor 
explanation and did so with immediate effect. Mrs O adds this has caused her financial loss, 
and severe distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
This decision deals only with Mrs Os complaint about her Help-to-Buy ISA, and current 
account closures. Her complaint about a credit card also with Barclays, is being considered 
under a separate reference at this service.
Following a review, Barclays decided to close Mrs Os accounts including her Help-to-Buy 
ISA in July 2022. Unhappy with what it did, Mrs O complained. Barclays sent Mrs O a final 
response to her complaint, in which, and in summary, it said: 
- Barclays acted correctly in closing Mrs Os accounts, but it should have given her 
more time to make alternative arrangements  a 62-day notice period would have 
been more appropriate
- This would have allowed Mrs O to switch her Help-to-Buy ISA and reduce any 
interruption caused by her account closures 
- Mrs O successfully withdrew her balances in August 2022 
- Barclays offered Mrs O £132 for the distress and inconvenience caused, and the 
poor service she received. This award considers the bonus fee the Government 
would have given towards the ISA balance based on the scheme rules
Unhappy with what Barclays said, Mrs O referred her complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into the matter, and in short, they found: 
- Barclays was entitled to review the accounts to meet its legal and regulatory 
requirements 
- Barclays didnt act fairly when closing Mrs Os accounts down with immediate effect  
it should have given her 60 days notice. But having considered Barclays reasons for 
closing the accounts, it acted fairly by doing so  
- Our Investigator didnt agree with Mrs Os claim for any future loss through the 
closure of the Help to Buy ISA with immediate notice. Barclays is able to close an 
account at any time. So, the ISA was going to be closed in any case, regardless of 
the amount of notice given. Barclays offered Mrs O a 25% bonus based on her ISA 
closure balance of £126.81 and they thought that was fair
- But Barclays should pay an additional £100 on top of the £132 it has already offered 
to Mrs O for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
Mrs O didnt agree with what our Investigator said. She sent a case study example from our 
external website, which she says shows she should be awarded a lot more compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience Barclays caused her.  
In response our Investigator said that each case is assessed on its own merits, and she 
didnt think the case study example was comparable. They also added that as Mrs O had 
access to another bank account, with another provider, she wasnt left without banking 
facilities.
Mrs O says her being pregnant at the time wasnt taken into account in terms of impact  
though she accepts Barclays didnt know that was the case. She says an additional £100 
isnt fair compensation for the shock, anxiety, and panic attacks she suffered whilst 
pregnant.
As Mrs O doesnt agree with our Investigator, this complaint has now been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Os complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything Mrs O and Barclays have said 
before reaching my decision. Its important to note, my decision focuses on Barclays actions 
in regard to both Mrs Os current and ISA account. 
Id also add that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence 
from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains security 
information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Barclays has 
provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
Banks in the UK, like Barclays, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means Barclays needs to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts. 
Having seen Barclays reasons, Im satisfied it acted in line with its obligations in reviewing 
the accounts. I know Mrs O would like to know why Barclays has taken the actions it has, but 
Im not aware of any obligation under which I or Barclays must disclose this.  And Ive 
already said we consider some of the information Barclays has given us should be kept 
confidential. 
Barclays is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before Barclays closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with its terms and 
conditions.  The terms and conditions of the accounts, which Barclays and Mrs O had to comply with, 
say it could close the accounts by giving her at least, and at best, around two months notice. 
And in certain circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
Barclays have said it acted improperly by closing the accounts immediately. It should have 
given Mrs O the two months notice to help her switch her Help-to-Buy ISA, and account 
commitments like Direct Debits and standing orders. Having looked at this carefully, Im also 
persuaded Barclays didnt have information enough to have closed the accounts 
immediately. 
Though, I do think from what Ive seen, Barclays had reason enough to close the accounts 
by giving two months notice. To have acted the way it did, I would have expected Barclays 
to have stronger evidence and for it to have carried out proactive due diligence  something 
it appears its failed to do here. 
So, this brings me onto the crux of Mrs Os complaint  that is, what is fair compensation for 
any financial loss and distress an inconvenience caused. 
Help-to-Buy ISA account 
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Os ISA statement from November 2021 up until it was closed in 
July 2022 with a balance of around £130. I note that she has taken funds out of the account 
as well as depositing funds into it, and the most the balance has ever been in this period was 
around £430. So I dont find it particularly plausible that Mrs O was relying on this money in 
the short term to buy a house. 
Barclays say that had it given Mrs O two months notice she could have switched the 
account to another provider.  Though the Government stopped these types of ISA accounts, 
someone could still transfer one to another provider  even after the scheme was stopped. 
So its possible, had Barclays done what it should have, Mrs O couldve transferred around 
£130 to a new Help-to-But ISA with another provider before the account was closed in two 
months time from notice. The Help-to-Buy scheme involved the Government giving a top up 
of 25% of the saved funds to the scheme beneficiary if, and when, they wanted to use the 
funds for a house purchase. 
Barclays have already offered Mrs O 25% of what she would have lost based on the closing 
balance. But I need to consider if this is fair redress given she couldve continued using this 
ISA scheme with another provider. 
The problem here is that on one hand Mrs O doesnt appear to be saving significant sums 
into this account nor is it possible to know whether she would have saved much more and 
realised more Government fund support. My understanding is that this was capped at a 
savings amount of £12, 000 with a maximum government top up of £3,000. 
Given its impossible to know what Mrs O would have saved over time, and as shes said 
she was looking for property when her finances became stable, I cant fairly award her any 
loss more than what Barclays have offered. Ultimately, the loss argued here is too far 
removed and without a stronger record of regular and consistent saving patterns with a more 
definitive target of house purchase, I cant fairly award more compensation for any 
prospective financial loss.
Distress and Inconvenience
Mrs O says her being pregnant exacerbated her stress and anxiety, and she had to borrow money for a short time from family. She says that her family stepped in to help her with 
transferring regular payments to her other account. 
Given Mrs O had another bank account, and as I cant award redress to the inconvenience 
others have suffered in helping her  as its their inconvenience not Mrs Os  Im satisfied 
£200 is fair award. 
My compensation award considers the stress caused to Mrs O, the impact the closures had 
on her whilst she was pregnant - I note she hadnt told Barclays about this. I dont 
undervalue the accounts being closed in this way caused her distress and inconvenience, 
but for the reasons above, and as Barclays acted fairly by deciding to close the accounts, Im 
satisfied £200 plus £32 for the Help-to-Buy ISA top up is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I note Mrs O has sent us a case study from our website to demonstrate why she thinks a 
higher award of compensation should be made. But I must decide a complaint on its 
individual circumstances and the evidence available. And that is what Ive done here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I now direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs O £232 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman