DRN-4258111
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAUIC) 
dealt with a claim they made on a car insurance policy. 
While Mr K is the policyholder and I will refer to him for ease, Mrs K is a named driver and 
has been supporting him in this complaint. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
AAUIC told Mr K that it would look to recover the car hire costs hed incurred directly 
from the third party. It failed to do this. 
As the third party admitted liability and settled AAUICs costs in full, I think it is more 
likely than not, had the hire car costs also been presented, these would have been 
accepted.
AAUIC was aware Mr K was vulnerable and that its error has caused this position. 
In the particular circumstances of this case. I dont think it is appropriate for AAUIC to 
suggest he now pursue a separate uninsured loss claim when this will cause him 
additional stress and inconvenience. And potentially AAUICs actions may have 
prejudiced the possibility of recovering the funds in full at a later stage.
AAUICs error has caused Mr and Mrs K distress and for that they should receive 
compensation.
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
- AAUIC should pay the full hire car amount to Mr K. This should not impact how the 
claim is recorded against him. It would be open to AAUIC to pursue this loss from the 
third party separately as it originally said it would do.
- AAUIC should pay Mr and Mrs K £100 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset 
its error caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint against AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited. I direct it to put things right as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman