DRN-4053956
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly 
declined their claim and voided their home insurance policy due to suspicion of fraud. Mr and 
Mrs S were represented during the claim, but for ease and simplicity, Ill only refer to Mr and 
Mrs S.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made a claim to RSA when they reported a theft at their home. A handbag 
was stolen which contained various items, including jewellery, a purse and a mobile phone.
RSA appointed a specialist contractor to validate and investigate the claim. Based upon the 
contractors report RSA declined the claim. RSA said the claim had been deliberately 
misrepresented from the outset. RSA decided to void the policy from the date the claim was 
made, which meant the claim was effectively declined or not considered. It didnt refund any 
premium.
RSA said your policy contains a specific fraud condition. This explains the consequences of 
any misrepresentation or failure to comply with the requirement for the claim to be presented 
in good faith. It is due to this breach in your policy condition that this action has been taken.
Mr and Mrs S have provided their own evidence that contradicts what has been said by 
RSAs contractor who carried out the investigation. They said RSA has been unwilling to 
consider or investigate the facts which have been provided to them. Mr and Mrs S dont think 
they have been treated fairly. They want their claim settled and their policy reinstated.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She didnt think RSA had acted 
reasonably. She didnt think RSA had shown Mr and Mrs S had acted dishonestly, so she 
thought RSA should re-instate the policy and amend any records about the potential fraud. 
She also thought RSA should consider the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. RSA disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My (first) provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 31 January 2023. I said:
RSA said it acted as Mr and Mrs S breached the fraud condition within the policy. So, I have 
checked what the policy sets out in respect to fraud. It states:
If dishonesty or exaggeration is used by you, your family or anyone acting on behalf of you 
or your family to obtain:
a claims payment under your policy; or
cover for which you do not qualify; or
cover at a reduced premium;
all benefits under this policy will be lost, the policy may be invalid, you may not be entitled to 
a refund of premium and legal action may be taken against you.
I think the actions RSA has taken are reasonable if it has shown fraud has occurred. It will 
have acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. However, I will review the 
evidence it has used to reach its decision that fraud occurred. I will look to see what I think is 
most likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities.
RSA appointed a specialist contractor that has expertise in claims where there is suspicion 
of fraud. I think this was a reasonable approach, I think the circumstances of the claim 
provided reason for suspicion. I have considered what the specialist contractor concluded in 
his report based upon the evidence he collected.
The report is detailed, and the specialist contractor concluded a fraud was proven  the 
report set out concerns about the claim. There were concerns in relation to facts presented  
which included  
the contractor couldnt verify the store where Mrs S said she intended to have her 
jewellery cleaned
the details of the phone that was stolen
an evolving story as to who bought and set-up the phone that was stolen.
The specialist contractor thought these concerns were heightened as Mr and Mrs S had 
delayed reporting the incident to the Police. The specialist contractor used the report to set 
out other aspects of the claim where he thought there was unusual circumstances and 
inconsistencies in what had been said. 
I have reviewed the report and the evidence that has been provided and I do find it 
persuasive. The evidence provided has supported what the specialist contractor concluded. 
It seems thorough. However, when RSA shared its decision with Mr and Mrs S, they 
provided some further evidence of their own, which provided additional information in 
relation to the stolen phone.
Mr and Mrs S provided a signed testimony from one of their employees. The testimony set 
out the employee was responsible for part of the activity which led to Mr and Mrs S been 
accused of fraudulent activity. Mr and Mrs S said they were completely unaware of the 
actions of their employee. They said the employee wasnt acting on their behalf. They also 
provided some additional information in relation to the jewellery being cleaned.
RSAs specialist contractor has doubted what Mr and Mrs S said in relation to the jewellery 
being cleaned. When RSAs specialist contractor checked the details of the jeweller that was 
given to them by Mr and Mrs S, it didnt exist. Then, Mr and Mrs S provided a new name for 
the jeweller and this was proven to exist  they said RSAs specialist contactor had taken the 
name down incorrectly. In addition, Ive noted that when RSA has asked for proof of 
ownership for the jewellery  Mr and Mrs S hasnt been able to provide this. I think this 
provides support to RSA stance that the circumstances of the theft / claim were suspicious.
Mr and Mrs S didnt feel the new evidence provided by them was properly considered by 
RSA. So, Ive looked at this. I can see RSA asked for its specialist contractor to provide a 
supplementary report in relation to the new evidence that had been submitted. I think this 
was a reasonable course of action. Therefore, I dont think its fair to say this information 
wasnt considered. I have reviewed the supplementary report.
The report provides a commentary that demonstrates the specialist contractor has 
considered the points that were raised by Mr and Mrs S. The contractor stated in his report 
that he maintained his view that a fraud had been committed. The report explained some of 
the background investigations hed carried out. As part of his conclusions, he said: we do 
have concerns with the statement provided as we have needed to challenge discrepancies 
within it and concerns are raised over the integrity of [employee] and the reliability of the statement he has now provided.
From reviewing the report, I think the specialist contractor has considered the information 
that has been provided. I appreciate Mr and Mrs S wont like the conclusions, but I cant say 
RSA has been unreasonable in asking its expert contractor to carry out these investigations. 
I think it has followed a reasonable process and based its decision on the reports carried out 
by the appointed specialist. I have assessed the evidence, including the expert reports and 
the testimonies provided by Mr and Mrs S. I have decided on the balance of probabilities that 
its more likely a fraud has been committed. I think RSA has been fair in making its decision. 
So, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
When making this assessment, I havent considered one piece of evidence but all the 
evidence that has been put forward. I think the specialist contractor has highlighted 
numerous inconsistencies in the details that have been presented during the claim. I think 
the specialist contractors report carries most weight. I appreciate the efforts Mr and Mrs S 
have made in getting their employee to make a statement. However, I dont think this 
evidence outweighs the evidence from the specialist contractor. 
An accusation of fraud is very serious as it can have long lasting consequences on a 
policyholder. Mr and Mrs S could have difficulty with getting future insurance cover and its 
likely to cost significantly more. It can cause other issues as well. Therefore, I havent taken 
this decision lightly. However, I think RSA has been reasonable in concluding that a fraud 
has occurred and has taken the appropriate course of action. I think this is most likely what 
has occurred. Therefore, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with my provisional decision, and theyve provided an articulated 
response which I shall summarise.
During an interview with RSAs specialist contractor, Mr and Mrs S think the contractor 
misheard the name of the jeweller where they said they planned to get their jewellery 
cleaned. When RSAs contractor searched and couldnt find the jeweller, Mr and Mrs S 
thinks it shouldve checked it had captured the details correctly. Mr and Mrs S have 
explained the background to why they wanted the jewellery cleaned. Theyve also offered to 
ask for their jewellers to vouch for them as regular customers.
Mr and Mrs S made the same points theyd made before in relation to the phone that was 
stolen, so I wont repeat these.
Mr and Mrs S explained why theyd provided a testimony from their employee. They have 
explained how they informed RSAs contractor that he would be willing to be interviewed in 
relation to the claim, but RSAs contractor declined the offer.
Mr and Mrs S explained the loss was discovered around 10pm at night and they informed 
the Police the following morning, so didnt think they had delayed reporting the loss. They 
didnt think it was practical contacting the Police late at night and potentially receiving a visit 
from the Police with young children in the house.
Mr and Mrs S confirmed they had provided photographs of the stolen items which was 
contrary to what RSA had said.
RSA accepted my provisional decision and have provided further information in response to 
questions by our service.RSA provided the recorded call of the interview it held with Mr and Mrs S. However, it said it 
didnt think any information provided by the [jewellery] cleaner would have any impact on 
the evidence obtained.
The photos of the stolen items were shared with RSA, and it was asked if these changed 
their viewpoint on the claim. RSA said whilst these images show jewellery and have EXIF 
data attributable to a timeframe spanning 7 minutes on 3 October 2021. This does not alter 
the fact that the insured has misrepresented the other part of the claim for the iPhone. Due 
to the timeframe involved, it is not outside the realms of possibility that these images could 
have been created with an edited time and date by someone who knows what they are 
doing. My question is why weren't these images provided when we asked for them? 
Although there is EXIF information for the date, there is no GPS data which is normally 
present in such images. In any event, I don't think this would alter the outcome, due to the 
general presentation of the claim.
My (second) provisional decision
I issued a second provisional decision on 8 March 2023, as the evidence changed my 
decision. I said:
In my earlier provisional decision, I said my decision was based on the balance of 
probabilities. I cant be certain of what has occurred. I have weighed up the evidence and 
decided on what I think is most likely to have occurred. I said:
When making this assessment, I havent considered one piece of evidence but all the 
evidence that has been put forward. I think the specialist contractor has highlighted 
numerous inconsistencies in the details that have been presented during the claim. I think 
the specialist contractors report carries most weight. I appreciate the efforts Mr and Mrs S 
have made in getting their employee to make a statement. However, I dont think this 
evidence outweighs the evidence from the specialist contractor. 
Based on the information received in these responses, I think the number of inconsistencies 
in the details are significantly reduced. So, I think the balance of probability has swung 
towards Mr and Mrs S account. Therefore, I intend to change my decision and I intend to 
uphold this complaint. Ill explain more why I think this.
I have listened to the recorded interview that RSAs contractor had with Mr and Mrs S about 
the claim. I think Mr and Mrs S do provide the correct name of the jewellers. I think RSA may 
have misheard this name or noted it down with an incorrect spelling. I can also hear Mr and 
Mrs S providing further information about the jeweller and they mentioned that they werent 
sure whether the jeweller was registered. Mr and Mrs S also explained the reasoning for 
having the jewellery cleaned. I know RSA has said this doesnt have a bearing on the claim, 
but I disagree. This has cleared up one of the inconsistencies in their account. Mr and Mrs S 
have also said their jeweller would vouch for them as regular customers. I dont think RSA 
should ignore this information.
RSA commented that theyd received no proof of ownership. However, Mr and Mrs S have 
provided photos of the lost items (they said these had been provided before). RSA has made 
comments that further testing may prove these photos to be unreliable. However, they 
havent shown any outcome of any tests. I dont think this is a reasonable way to operate. If 
RSA has discounted these photos, I think they shouldve explained why and supported this 
with appropriate evidence.
Given RSAs contractor didnt properly investigate these areas, I find the credibility of the 
report less reliable. I appreciate RSA has explained why they think the claim was misrepresented (regarding the phone). However, I think Mr and Mrs S have explained why 
this happened. On its own, I dont think this (the phone) is enough to say a fraudulent activity 
has occurred. I dont think it has been proven. Therefore, I intend to uphold this complaint. I 
havent seen evidence to suggest what Mr and Mrs S has said is inaccurate. So, I intend that 
RSA re-instate the policy and move any markers from Mr and Mrs S account in relation to 
fraud. I also intend for RSA to consider the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Responses to my (second) provisional decision
Mr and Mrs S accepted my decision and clarified some further points on the circumstances 
of the claim.
RSA didnt accept my provisional decision. RSA asked for me to confirm whether Id 
considered information provided about who set-up the phone  it said Mr and Mrs S had 
provided false information.
RSA repeated its point about discrepancies in Mr and Mrs S account in relation to the 
invoice produced and where the phone was bought from.
RSA also said the insured has never been able to provide any iCloud account information 
for the device, nor has she provided any evidence that the phone was blocked or blacklisted. 
It isnt possible to set up or use an iPhone without such an account. I'm also mindful that the 
insured has been the director of five companies, so this also calls into question how she 
receives or sends emails on a daily basis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive stated before an accusation of fraud is a serious allegation, and it can have 
widespread implications for Mr and Mrs S. Therefore, I would expect the evidence to support 
the allegation to be strong. I dont think RSA has proven on the balance of probabilities that 
a fraud has been committed. There remains a significant doubt in mind. Therefore, I dont 
think its fair that this claim has been declined on the basis the fraud condition has been 
breached. So, I will be upholding this complaint.
I have considered that Mrs S initially said her husband set-up the phone when she was 
interviewed about the claim. Mr and Mrs S later confirmed the phone was set-up by their 
employee. Whilst there is a difference in account, I dont find this significant, and I think it 
carries less weight. I think its likely Mrs S just assumed her husband had set-up the phone 
as she hadnt. I dont think this is an unreasonable assumption.
Mr and Mrs S have confirmed they didnt have an icloud account, which is why they didnt 
provide this information to RSA. Ive considered this as unusual. But as Mr and Mrs S have 
explained why they purchased the phone  they wouldnt need the full functionality of the 
phone for this purpose, so its plausible they didnt need an icloud account. RSA has said the 
phone cant be used without an account, but Ive checked this point, and I dont agree. In 
terms of blocking their phone, Mr and Mrs S said they asked their employee to do this.
RSA also questioned how Mr and Mrs S would use the phone for sending emails with so 
many companies. Mr and Mrs S has explained how three of these businesses are dormant 
and Mrs S completes most of the administration for the two businesses on her computer.I think Mr and Mrs S have tried to answer the questions that RSA has put to them. Whilst, 
RSA may think the circumstances are suspicious, I dont think it has done enough to 
evidence a fraud has occurred. I think if it had doubts about the employees testimony, it 
shouldve interviewed the employee as part of its investigation when it had opportunity to do 
so. I dont think its then reasonable for RSA to suggest the signed written statement from 
the employee is false. I think the investigation was flawed in relation to the jewellery cleaning 
company.  So, for the reasons, Ive set out in my decision I uphold this complaint. As I 
havent received any new information, I see no reason to change my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited :
re-instate the policy
amend any records about the potential fraud
consider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman