DRN-2263617
The complaint 
Mr P complains that Carworld (CAMBS) Ltd (Carworld) didnt return the reservation fee he 
paid for a car after he decided not to go ahead with the acquisition.
What happened
Mr P visited the Carworld dealership in July 2019 after making an enquiry about a car. After 
taking the car for a test drive the finance for the acquisition was discussed. Mr P says he 
was given the paperwork to sign and was told he needed to pay a £500 reservation fee. 
Mr P provided his bank card and it was agreed that he would collect the car on 3 August 
2019.
Mr P intended to use funds from a pension policy to finance the car but when he received 
these the amount was lower than he had expected. Because of this he says he no longer 
wanted the car and contacted the dealership about this. Mr P says that he was then told the 
reservation fee was non-refundable, which he says hadnt been mentioned previously. He 
wants the reservation fee refunded.
Carworld didnt respond to Mr Ps complaint and he referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ps complaint. She said that Carworld hadnt sent a business file 
despite multiple requests and so she had conducted her investigation based on the 
information available. 
Our investigator said that Mr Ps testimony had been consistent and accepted that the 
finance for the car had most likely been secured and the next steps were for the agreement 
to be signed and the car collected. Based on this she thought a prospective credit 
agreement was in place. She said that the Consumer Credit Act 1974 makes provision for 
what is to happen in relation to deposits taken in transactions involving a prospective credit 
agreement. She accepted that Mr P had given notice of his intention to withdraw from the 
agreement and thought it fair that the £500 payment be refunded.
Carworld didnt respond to our investigators view and so this case has been passed to me, 
an ombudsman, to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Carworld was asked to provide its response to this complaint and any further 
evidence but no information has been received. Mr P has provided a consistent 
testimony of the events that happened. In this case, despite the lack of evidence from 
Carworld I find I can make a decision on this complaint and I think it fair that Mr P has 
a resolution to the issues he raised despite the lack of engagement from Carworld.
Mr P has explained he visited Carworld and took a car for a test drive. He intended to 
acquire the car using finance and says that the deposit amount was discussed, the 
finance secured, and the agreement signed. He says he was told to pay £500 to 
secure the car and I have seen evidence that he made this payment to Carworld on 
28 July 2019. Mr P then decided he no longer wanted to acquire the car. Based on 
the explanation of events, I agree that there was a prospective credit agreement in 
place from which Mr P withdrew.
Mr P has said he wasnt told that the reservation fee of £500 was non-refundable. 
Carworld hasnt responded to our information requests, so I have nothing to dispute 
Mr Ps version of events and based on his consistent testimony I find it reasonable to 
accept that he wasnt informed that the payment was non-refundable.
Section 57 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 provides that:
(1) The withdrawal of a party from a prospective regulated agreement shall operate 
to apply this Part to the agreement, any linked transaction and any other thing done 
in anticipation of the making of the agreement as it would apply if the agreement 
were made and then cancelled under section 69. 
(2) The giving to a party of a written or oral notice which, however expressed, 
indicates the intention of the other party to withdraw from a prospective regulated 
agreement operates as a withdrawal from it. 
(3) Each of the following shall be deemed to be the agent of the creditor or owner for 
the purpose of receiving a notice under subsection (2)
(a) a credit-broker or supplier who is the negotiator in antecedent negotiations, and
(b) any person who, in the course of a business carried on by him, acts on behalf of 
the debtor or hirer in any negotiations for the agreement.
(4) Where the agreement, if made, would not be a cancellable agreement, subsection 
(1) shall nevertheless apply as if the contrary were the case.
Mr P made it clear he wanted to withdraw from the agreement, and I find it 
reasonable that his payment of £500 should be treated the same way as would have 
happened had he cancelled the agreement under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Section 70 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 sets out that:
(1) On the cancellation of a regulated agreement, and of any linked transaction, (a) 
any sum paid by the debtor or hirer, or his relative, under or in contemplation of the 
agreement or transaction, including any item in the total charge for credit, shall 
become repayable, and [].
Having considered the legislation as well as assessing what I think fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint, I find that it is fair that Mr P is 
refunded the £500 he paid to Carworld. I say this because I have nothing to show 
that Mr P was told this payment was non-refundable. He withdrew from the 
agreement in a timely way and I have nothing to show that Carworld incurred any 
costs due to this. 
Because of the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.Putting things right
Carworld (CAMBS) Ltd should refund Mr P the £500 payment he made on 28 July 2019, 
along with 8% simple interest per year from date paid to date of settlement.
If Carworld considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about Carworld (CAMBS) Ltd and it should 
take the actions set out above to settle this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman