DRN-4362108
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the excessive delay in settling his claim for the theft of his 
motorbike by West Bay Insurance Plc under his motor policy. 
What happened
Mr Ws motorbike was stolen from his garage in August 2022 all of which was seen on 
CCTV. Sadly, his motor bike was then involved in a fatal accident, which obviously 
complicated matters as it was recovered by the police as evidence. 
Mr W complained about the delays by West Bay of keeping him informed and ultimately 
dealing with his claim. West Bay ultimately agreed its service could have been better and 
paid him a total of £350 compensation. However, the settlement for the loss of Mr Ws 
motorbike continued to be delayed. Mr W then brought his complaint to us.
 
Throughout the time of the investigators investigation, and shortly before he issued his view 
in June 2023, West Bay then paid Mr W the settlement for his stolen bike. The investigator 
was of the view that Mr Ws claim could have been processed much more quickly 
notwithstanding the delays caused by the fact it was involved in a fatal accident. So, he 
thought West Bay should pay Mr W a further £150 compensation making the total £500. Mr 
W was happy to accept this.
West Bay however didnt agree, so Mr Ws complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint along the lines of the investigators view. Ill 
now explain why. 
Mr Ws complaint is simply one of delay in processing his claim. It was slightly more 
complicated in that the motorbike was recovered by the police and there was some delay 
there in being able to get the motorbike to West Bays salvage agents for assessment. 
However, this happened in March 2023, but Mr W didnt receive settlement of his claim until 
June 2023. Notwithstanding that, the police were also happy to let an engineer inspect the 
motorbike whilst it was still in their custody, but West Bay didnt avail of that opportunity. 
Further there seemed to be some confusion over whether Mr Ws motorbike had a Thatcham 
approved immobiliser. But Mr W was always clear his motorbike didnt come with one and he 
had never been told he needed one. Further Mr W explained all this at the outset. 
So, taking all this together  more especially the fact that West Bay itself conceded it had 
overly delayed in dealing with Mr Ws claim, I consider the further compensation initially 
suggested by the investigator to be fair and reasonable. I do consider the excessive delays, 
more especially in settling Mr Ws claim is worthy of a total of £500 compensation. Its in line 
with our awards generally on such matters and is in line with other awards I have made in 
similar circumstances.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require West Bay Insurance Plc to pay Mr W a further £150 compensation ensuring 
that the total he now receives is £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman