DRN-4094121
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) failed to repair a 
leak effectively under their Home Emergency policy which led to further damage to their 
property. Mr and Mrs P had representation during the complaint, but for ease and simplicity, 
Ill only refer to Mr and Mrs P.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P identified a leak at their property so made a claim to British Gas under their 
policy. Mr and Mrs P said despite three visits from British Gas, no-one took action to stop the 
water at the mains. Mr and Mrs P said British Gas incompetence led to further and more 
significant damage to the downstairs of their property. Mr and Mrs P said they paid £180 to 
get a private plumber to stop the leak and the repairs from the leak would cost around £400. 
They want this money reimbursed and say theyve been distressed and inconvenienced.
British Gas said it attended three times, it said:
Day 1 visit  applied putty to try to repair the leak. Unfortunately, this failed and we
returned the next day.
Day 2 visit  advised Mr and Mrs P of the lead pipe and ordered the part and turned 
off the water to stop the leak.
Day 3 visit  the engineer noted that the water was turned off as a temporary 
measure until the part arrived.
British Gas said Mr and Mrs P then sourced their own plumber to carry out the repair as they 
were unhappy with waiting for the part. British Gas said it would pay for the repair if Mr and 
Mrs P provided a receipt. As a receipt wasnt provided the costs werent reimbursed. 
However, British Gas said the damage was caused by the initial fault and not by its 
engineers, so didnt think it was responsible for this cost. British Gas did pay £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She said there was evidence the leak 
continued after British Gas visit, so said British Gas should pay the £180 repair costs less 
£60 policy excess. However, she said it was likely decoration wouldve been needed 
because of the initial leak, so didnt think further reimbursement was appropriate as British 
Gas hadnt caused further damage. She thought £100 compensation was fair. Mr and Mrs P 
disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 20 April 2023. I said:
Usually when a leak occurs, Id expect the Home Emergency policy to cover the fixing of the 
leak and the Home Insurance (Buildings and Contents) to cover the repair of any damage. 
However, Mr and Mrs P have said they think British Gas delays led to further and significant 
damage.
Mr and Mrs P dont want to claim on their home insurance as they are worried about the 
impact this would have on their claim history and cost of future premiums. They think British 
Gas poor service led to additional damage.
British Gas has accepted our investigators view to reimburse the cost of the private plumber 
less the excess. As this is the most I could recommend here, I wont consider these costs 
any further  I think this is a fair offer.
I have considered whether I think British Gas should pay the costs of repairing the damage 
which Mr and Mrs P said has cost them around £400. British Gas said it stopped the leak as 
soon as it was able to and turned the mains water off. It has provided records from its 
engineers to support this statement. 
I dont find these records persuasive. I can see conflicting information from British Gas on 
whether the first visit was successful  one document shows there was a temporary repair 
carried out, on another it said the engineer couldnt gain access to the property. The total 
visit time over the three visits recorded on the engineers records is nearly 8 hours  this 
doesnt seem consistent with the work that was carried out which wouldve been much 
shorter in duration.
I think the evidence Mr and Mrs P has provided (time stamped videos and photographs) 
demonstrate that its likely the leak continued beyond any British Gas intervention. Its likely 
the initial leak caused some damage, but if this wasnt dealt with for 48 hours as Mr and Mrs 
P have indicated I think the damage wouldve been significantly more. So, I think its fair for 
British Gas to repair the damage their delays / failure to fix the leak caused. Therefore, I 
intend to uphold this complaint. I intend British Gas to repair the damage caused by the leak 
or if its already been repaired, to reimburse Mr and Mrs P the cost of that repair on the 
production of valid receipts. Alternatively, British Gas can cash settle for what the work will 
cost based upon a reasonable quote provided by Mr and Mrs P.
British Gas has compensated Mr and Mrs P £100 already. However, I dont think this reflects 
the leak continued and further damage was caused. I dont think it reflects Mr and Mrs Ps 
vulnerable circumstances. I think the distress this wouldve caused them wouldve been 
greater. I think the leak wouldve worried them, so I intend to award a further £100 
compensation for this.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs P accepted my provisional decision. They said they hadnt received any 
compensation money from British Gas so far.
British Gas reiterated some of the information contained on the engineers notes. British Gas 
said even though the internal stopcock or isolation valve is turned off, it could still weep if its
letting by. However, the engineer who attended on the 29 May 2022 did mention that he 
stopped it again to temporarily stop the leak until the parts are delivered. The only solution 
would be to completely turn off the mains, but it means there would be no water whatsoever 
until the part is delivered and the engineer returns to complete the work. Please note that in 
some cases, the mains supply feeds different properties and not just one, so all properties 
would not have water. In this case, the engineer turned off the water internally as there was 
an internal valve that could be shut. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent received any further information that has led me to think differently to the reasoning 
Ive already set out in my provisional decision. I think the evidence shows its more likely 
British Gas didnt fix the leak successfully and this led to a greater level of damage than 
otherwise wouldve been the case. So, I still uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr 
and Mrs P:
£120 for their private plumber (£180 less £60 excess)
The costs of repairing the damage caused (c£400) on the production of valid receipts 
or repair the damage themselves
£100* additional compensation  for distress and inconvenience (plus the £100* 
already offered if its still not been paid).
*British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it that Mr and Mrs P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman