DRN-2218760
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2002. Mr
and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax mis-sold them the PPI.
Mr and Mrs B bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2002. TMPP can be split
into sections  Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover and critical
illness cover. Mr and Mrs B complained about the PPI, so Ive looked at the sale of the PPI
cover only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr and Mrs B aware that the PPI policy was optional and gain their 
consent before adding the PPI to their mortgage. There isnt much paperwork available from 
the sale of the policy, but from what we know about how Halifax sold this type of policy at the
time I think its likely Halifax would have presented the PPI as optional and gained Mr and
Mrs Bs consent before adding it to their mortgage. So, I think Halifax made it clear that Mr
and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out.
I think Halifax recommended the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs B, so it had to check that the PPI
was right for them. Mr and Mrs B have told us they were entitled to statutory sick pay when 
they took the PPI. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to their sick pay, and for 
longer. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, they werent affected
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for
the cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But I think they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also
looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put
them off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have said including that they would never have 
willingly taken the policy. But for the reasons explained above these points dont change my 
decision.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman