DRN-3880296
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs K complained that when they redeemed their mortgage with Yorkshire 
Building Society, the early repayment charge (ERC) was based on the balance they initially 
transferred to this fixed interest rate deal, not the balance later outstanding on the mortgage.
What happened
Mr R and Mrs K took out a mortgage with YBS in 2017. In 2019 they moved to a fixed 
interest rate deal, with an offset facility. They then paid the mortgage off in full in July 2022. 
Mr R told us that he and Mrs K were expecting to be charged an ERC of 3% on the balance 
as of July 2022, but YBS charged him 3% of the initial lending which was transferred onto 
this deal back in 2019. Mr R said that meant the ERC was very considerably higher, and he 
didnt think that was right. He wanted YBS to refund the extra ERC that it had overcharged.
Mr R said he didnt read the terms and conditions at the time of taking out this mortgage, he 
relied on what the mortgage advisor said to him. But hes read them since, and he doesnt 
think its clear. 
YBS said the ERC payable on this mortgage was based on the initial amount transferred 
onto this deal  so it was a percentage of the initial lending, not the amount Mr R owed some 
years after that. YBS said this had been explained correctly to Mr R over the phone, and it 
sent us a recording of a call from May 2021 where this was discussed. YBS said it knew Mr 
R had been told his complaint would be upheld, but it had explained why it no longer thought 
that was appropriate. YBS didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr R and Mrs Ks 
mortgage offer correctly outlined how YBS would calculate and apply the ERC on their 
mortgage. So he was satisfied that the ERC was applied fairly and reasonably in line with 
the terms and conditions.
Our investigator noted that Mr R and Mrs Ks mortgage offer says the ERC will not take into 
account any payments they had made to reduce the total amount borrowed or transferred. 
And he said hed also listened to a call Mr R had with YBS in May 2021, where YBS 
explained that the ERC would be calculated using the transfer balance as of 1 December 
2019. So our investigator didnt think YBS had to do any more. 
Mr R strongly disagreed. He said the terms set out ERC payment Examples but that wasnt 
the right word to use if these amounts were actually fixed. And he said that whilst the terms 
said the ERC would be based on the amount transferred, there was no clear definition of the 
amount transferred. Hed interpreted it as the balance transferred into the following 
anniversary of the mortgage. Mr R also said he wanted a copy of the call hed apparently 
had in May 2021, where our investigator said this was explained to him. Finally, Mr R also 
said he was told that he could overpay without any penalty, unless he redeemed the 
mortgage all at once. Mr R said a copy of this meeting should be obtained, and reviewed, to 
see what he was told when he took out the mortgage. 
Mr R said hed been paying a higher rate of interest on this mortgage, to have the offset 
facility. And he said he wouldnt have taken this mortgage out, if the ERC was applicable to 
overpayments after all. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind, and he sent Mr R the call recording he requested. 
Because no agreement was reached, he passed this call to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Like our investigator, I think that the terms of the mortgage offer that Mr R and Mrs K 
accepted in 2019 are clear on how an ERC will work. The section headed Early 
Repayment says that the charge will be based on a percentage of the amount transferred. 
Theres then a further section titled What happens if you want to make overpayments? 
That says Mr R and Mrs K can overpay if they want to. But it warns that If you repay the 
loan in full or transfer to another product during the early payment charge period the early 
repayment charge, stated in the Early repayment section, will be based on the original loan 
amount or amount transferred and disregards any payments (including usual monthly 
payments) you make which may have reduced the original amount borrowed / transferred. 
I think that explains clearly the position -which is that the ERC is based on the original 
borrowing which was transferred onto this deal. The only reason these terms refer to an 
amount transferred, is because Mr R and Mrs K already had borrowing with YBS, taken out 
in 2017. So I think that YBS is just making clear here that the ERC will be based on the 
amount transferred onto this deal in 2019, not on the borrowing that they first took out in 
2017.
Mr R now says that this mortgage was mis-sold, because the way that this worked wasnt 
correctly explained to him when he first took the mortgage out. He said that hed been told 
that "the offset mortgage was better suited to me as I could overpay without having a penalty 
unless I redeemed the mortgage all at once." And when Mr R complained about the payment 
to YBS, he said that hed checked around November 2021, before he made a significant 
overpayment, that this would reduce the ERC. 
YBS hasnt been able to find this call, where Mr R was told that his ERC would be based on 
the amount outstanding at the anniversary of his remortgage application from 2019. Ive 
listened to the only call that YBS could find with Mr R from around this time, when he made 
the overpayment he later pointed to. And the ERC wasnt discussed on that call. 
I do think there has been a misunderstanding here. Thats because I can hear on the 
November call that Mr R was concerned to make sure the payment was made that day, 
which fits with what he said about making sure his balance was reduced before the 
anniversary of his mortgage deal being taken out. So there clearly was a misunderstanding 
at some point.
But I havent been able to say that its most likely this is YBSs fault  because on all of the 
calls Ive been able to listen to, the explanation given to Mr R about the ERC has been both 
clear and accurate. I also havent been able to say that its most likely this misunderstanding dates back to when 
Mr R and Mrs K took out this mortgage. Ill explain why I think that.
Our service has sent Mr R a recording of the call he had with YBS in May 2021. I think that, 
on that call, the ERC was clearly explained to Mr R. And I think its important to note that Mr 
R doesnt appear to have questioned this then. 
If Mr R had been under the impression that his ERC would be calculated differently, because 
of misinformation given to him when his mortgage was sold, I would have expected him to 
raise a concern about this on the call in May 2021. But he didnt do that then. So I have 
weighed up that Mr R doesnt appear to have expressed concerns, when a clear explanation 
of his ERC was given to him in May 2021. And also that the documents setting out the offer 
Mr R and Mrs K took up in 2019 were, I think, clear. And that means its less likely, in my 
view, that Mr R and Mrs Ks mortgage was mis sold in 2019. It seems more likely that any 
misunderstanding occurred after this. And, as Ive said, I havent been able to say its more 
likely than not that this misunderstanding was YBSs fault. 
I know this complaint is important to Mr R and Mrs K, so I understand that they will be 
disappointed by my decision, but I dont think that this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman