DRN-2903431
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that Wilson Tarquin Limited (WT) is charging their success fee for a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claim. She said shed not authorised them to make.
What happened
Mrs T said shed been looking into making a claim for mis-sold PPI. She said shed gone 
through part of the process for making such a claim but had stopped as too much 
information was being asked of her. She said she was contacted about a week later and 
asked why she hadnt completed the form. She said she wasnt interested in pursuing a 
claim and thought that was the end of it. 
Mrs T said she received some emails about PPI including from her lender but had torn them 
up. But after being contacted again by her lender Ill call B apologising for the delay she 
said she phoned them. She received further letters and again tore these up. So, she said 
she was shocked when she received a letter form B saying theyd mis-sold her PPI and 
offered to compensate her for this.
Shortly after Mrs T said she was asked by WT to pay them a fee for her successful claim. 
Mrs T said she hadnt authorised WT to make a claim and asked them to provide the 
documentation they had. On receipt of this Mrs T said the signature on the form wasnt hers, 
and so WT had acted fraudulently in making a claim on her behalf. She complained to them.
WT said the application had been made, on line, in August 2019 using a tablet. A digital 
signature had been added and this signature had been accepted by B, so WT had no 
reason to doubt Mrs T had made the application. As the claim was successful, they said their 
fee was justified.
Mrs T was adamant the signature wasnt hers and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that on balance, it was most likely Mrs T had authorised WT to act on 
her behalf. And that they were acting fairly and reasonably in asking for their success fee. 
Mrs T didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt our role to consider whether a signature is genuine or not, we are not handwriting 
experts and forgery would be for a criminal court to decide. Were an informal dispute 
resolution service. This means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont 
place more weight on one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and 
weigh up all the information were given. Where there is a different version of events as is 
the case here, I base my decision on what I think most likely happened. 
WT feel strongly that Mrs T had agreed to use their services and that it was because of their 
enquiry her claim with B was successful. I can also understand Mrs Ts frustration as she is 
adamant the signature on WTs LoA isnt hers and so she doesnt agree shed authorised 
WT to act on her behalf. 
In making my decision I need to determine whether its more likely or not that Mrs T 
authorised WT to act on her behalf. And if she had, whether they knew she no longer wanted 
them to work for her. And to see whether WT has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions 
with her.
WT has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI for Mrs Ts lender, in 
August 2019. The personal details in this application included current and previous 
addresses, date of birth, email address, and previous names. This information is specific to 
Mrs T and correlate to personal details Mrs T has given this service. And Mrs T doesnt 
dispute she was looking on line through a social media network considering a mis-sold PPI 
claim around this time. 
WT has shown that the on line application was completed through the same social media 
network using a tablet and an email address for Mrs T. WTs system notes show the 
application was uploaded on 7 August 2019. The signature on the application was printed 
and included a middle initial. WT said none of their records held the details of a middle initial 
and so they wouldnt have known what Mrs Ts middle initial was.
Mrs T said shed been contacted about her application as it hadnt been completed, and that 
she hadnt heard further from WT, and didnt know who they were. So, Ive asked WT about 
their application process. WT said that they wouldnt be aware of anyone starting an 
application and not completing it. An application would only show on their system when 
submitted. And it could only be submitted with a signature. Theyve shown a completed 
application was submitted 7 August 2019. After which they sent Mrs T a welcome email and 
details about the LoA. The email address WT has on their records for Mrs T isnt the same 
as the email address Mrs T has given us. But I can see from evidence Mrs T has sent to us 
that this was an email address that she used. WT has also shown they sent update emails to 
Mrs T in September, October and November 2019. Ive no reason to doubt these emails 
were sent, so I cant hold WT responsible for Mrs T not reading or responding to them.
I can see, in February 2020, B sent Mrs T a letter explaining that they were looking into her 
mis -sold PPI claim. And the letter showed a copy had also been sent to WT. The letter 
asked Mrs T to contact B to confirm some details of her circumstances around the time the 
PPI was sold to her. From a call Mrs T had with WT she confirmed she did phone B. And in 
March 2020 B again wrote to Mrs T and WT to advise her PPI claim was successful. 
The letter from B says:
I have made my decision after reviewing your application form, the information provided by 
you, the information provided by Wilson Tarquin and our internal system evidence.
I think this shows B accepted WT as being Mrs Ts representative in her PPI claim. And by 
WT submitting the claim before the August deadline for making PPI claims, B investigated 
Mrs Ts claim for mis-sold PPI. So, after considering the evidence, on balance, Im satisfied 
that Mrs T authorised WT to act on her behalf in making her PPI claim with B.
Ive now considered whether Mrs T asked WT to stop working for her.WTs terms and conditions say:
You have a right to cancel Your Agreement with us at any time. You can do this by notifying 
us via telephone, email or post using the contact details in clause 9.You can also do this by 
signing and sending us the cancellation form contained in the pack we sent You.
WT has said the terms and conditions can be seen before a signature is added to the 
application process. As by signing the LoA the customer is agreeing to having read and 
understood them. I know Mrs T said she didnt read the terms and conditions. But I havent 
seen any evidence she tried to contact WT before her claim was successful, despite them 
having sent several emails to her about her PPI claim. And I dont think simply disengaging 
from the process is enough for WT to take from it that Mrs T didnt want to use their claims 
service. 
The agreement Mrs T had with WT was on a No win No fee basis. This means
WT charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did.
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a
claim was successful, WTs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And Mrs Ts claim was 
successful.
I know Mrs T will be disappointed with my decision. But I think its more likely than not, shed 
authorised WT to act on her behalf and she hadnt cancelled that agreement before her 
claim was successful. So, I dont think WT has acted unfairly or unreasonably in asking her 
to pay their success fee.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman