DRN-4506759
The complaint
Mrs P complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) declined a 
claim on her motor insurance policy. Mrs P is represented in her complaint, but for ease Ill 
refer to her throughout. When I mention Admiral I also mean its suppliers.
What happened
Mrs P had a motor insurance policy with Admiral covering her car.
In August 2021 her car was stolen from a car park.
Admiral said it would settle the claim on a total loss basis, and payment of the market value 
of the car was made by Admiral to a third-party finance company. Most of this amount was 
then sent back to Admiral. Another insurer became involved in the claim around this time 
because Mrs P had bought a GAP insurance policy from it.
Admiral arranged for an expert inspection of two key fobs provided by Mrs P to it. This was 
due to suspicions about the method of entry to the car, which had since been recovered. The 
expert report showed that one fob was for a vehicle with the correct Vehicle Identification 
Number (VIN), but an incorrect model of car, and the other fob was for a different car.
Mrs P asked for the keys to carry out her own inspection, but the second fob had been lost 
by Admiral.
Admiral repudiated Mrs Ps claim. It didnt accept Mrs Ps explanation of the theft was 
correct. It thought shed placed one of the key blades into a different fob, and the original fob 
had been used to steal the car. It said it thought Mrs P has deliberately misled it. It cancelled 
her policy and kept the premium. It asked Mrs P to repay its costs.
Mrs P brought her complaint to this service. She complains about Admirals claims service 
She asks that Admiral settle her claim and pays her loss of earnings, refund her premium, 
pays her increased premiums since the loss, and pay an amount towards her distress and 
inconvenience.
Our investigator looked into it and thought it would be upheld. He thought that Admiral had 
repudiated Mrs Ps claim due to its belief shed misled it, rather than due to evidence it had. 
He said Admiral should reconsider its rejection of the claim and consider paying Mrs Ps 
legal costs, compensation, replacement of the missing fob and her financial losses.
Admiral didnt agree with the view. It said it thought Mrs P had tried to mislead it about the 
key fob, and that she wouldnt answer further questions when it arranged for a claims 
investigator to talk to her.
Because Admiral didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision to allow both sides to consider the matter further:
Im issuing this as a provisional decision because, while I agree Admiral hasnt done enough 
to reject Mrs Ps claim on the basis it has, my proposed outcome is different from our 
investigators.
I can see that Admiral declined Mrs Ps claim under its fraud condition:
General Condition 9: Fraud
You must always answer our questions honestly and provide true and accurate 
information. If you, any other insured person or anyone acting on your behalf:
 provides us with false, exaggerated or misrepresented information
 submits false, altered, forged or stolen documents.
\Ne will take one or more of the following actions:
 amend your policy to show the correct information and apply any change in 
premium
 cancel your policy, under certain circumstances this may be with immediate effect
 declare your policy void
 refuse to pay your claim or only pay part of your claim
 only pay a proportion of your claim
 keep the premium you have paid
 recover any costs incurred from you or any other insured person.
If we identify any fraud or misrepresentation, we will cancel or void any other EUI 
policies you are connected with.
Its Admirals position that:
One of the keys sent into us is not for your vehicle, and as there are only 2 keys 
coded to your vehicle, we must believe that you had a matching blade cut to put into 
the fob to attempt to cover up a missing key.
We have to believe that the missing fob for your vehicle was utilised for the theft.
We believe that there has been a deliberate attempt to mislead us over the 
circumstances surrounding the incident and as result we have no option but to 
repudiate your claim.
Admiral knows that when an insurer seeks to rely on an argument of fraud to decline a claim 
and cancel a policy, the insurer has to support that with strong evidence. That is because 
fraud is a serious accusation which can have significant implications for its policyholder.
Implications that may impact their wider life and are not just restricted to the cover in 
question or even just any wider insurance provisions. Its rare that some discrepancies alone 
will be enough to satisfy this service that a finding of fraud is likely fair and reasonable.
Ive looked carefully at the report Admiral commissioned thats been used as the basis to decline Mrs Ps claim. I agree that the report shows inconsistencies with the physical 
evidence, but I dont think its fair to rely solely on the report to reject this claim. So I dont 
think Admiral has acted fairly here and Ill explain why.
Admiral arranged for a key expert to examine both fobs, which are for a keyless system. This 
type of fob contains a hidden key blade for backup or emergency use. For ease Ill now 
refer to these as Key 1 and Key 2, and when discussing the key blade Ill say so. 
The expert said Key 1 was apparently the key that was supplied with her car, from new. 
They said they thought its wear showed it was probably used as a spare key. This key 
seemed to be the one used by Mrs P on the day of the theft and its last use was about 15 
minutes from when she said she last used it.
In its report the key expert states the key was for a particular model of car. But the model 
stated on the report wasnt correct  it wasnt the same as Mrs Ps. This is despite the VIN 
stored on the key, and consequently on the report, being the correct VIN for her car. Ive not 
seen an explanation of this.
Key 2 was also examined by the expert. I can see from the photos its visually a similar, but 
not identical, type to Key 1. This key was from another vehicle, which was manufactured and 
then stolen about a year before Mrs Ps was made. The key expert again says this key 
seemed to have wear patterns showing it was a spare key. It held data saying it hadnt been 
used since before Mrs Ps car was made.
Both keys hidden blades have been described by the key expert as identical. Im not sure as 
to the extent of the check the expert has carried out to check this.
The key expert also said Admiral could ask the manufacturer to tell it whether the keys were 
electronically linked to the cars engine management system, but Admiral didnt do this.
Key 2 was later lost, with Admiral saying its supplier had it, but the supplier providing 
photographic evidence to Mrs P demonstrating that it was only supplied with one key.
This service usually accepts the view of an expert as being of utmost value in our 
considerations, but here I can see theres an error or oversight in the information which leads 
me to question the evidence provided.
Key 2 becomes the main piece of evidence that this complaint hinges on.
Its the presence of Key 2 that Admiral say demonstrates that Mrs P was acting fraudulently, 
as it shows that a blade for the car was placed in a fob that couldnt have been used with the 
car.
And its the loss of Key 2 that potentially means Mrs P cant prove an error had been made 
somewhere by Admiral, or its expert, about its modification or involvement in taking her car.
What I mean here is that Mrs P hasnt been able to carry out her own checks on Key 2 as its 
gone missing at some point in the claims process, and I cant reasonably say thats Mrs Ps 
fault.
In its final response to Mrs P and in its further responses to this service, Admiral has referred 
to the key experts report to say that Key 2 could not have been used with the car so it 
believes there was another key involved in the car being taken.
But the discrepancy about the car model for Key 1 leads me to think Admiral should have investigated the situation further before it declined Mrs Ps claim. For example, it didnt 
enquire further with the manufacturer despite its expert saying this was possible.
The reason given by Admiral for rejecting Mrs Ps claim has a basis in fact because of the 
expert key report, but to say we must believe that you had a matching blade cut to put into 
the fob to attempt to cover up a missing key, and continue to use that as the basis for 
rejecting her claim for misleading it is, in my view, stretching that evidence into conjecture.
The loss of Key 2 and the discrepancy in the key experts report mean, on balance, I dont 
think Admiral has reasonably declined Mrs Ps claim on the basis it has.
So, I think the fair approach is that Admiral reconsider the claim by investigating the situation 
further.
For clarity, this doesnt mean Admiral must accept the claim, only that it should reconsider it 
without relying on its beliefs about what happened solely based on its key report.
I can see from the file that Mrs P has asked for consideration of loss of use of the car, loss of 
earnings, distress, and other costs shes incurred in making her complaint against Admiral. 
Ive not considered these further as I cant see these points were included in Mrs Ps 
complaint to Admiral.
If Admiral agrees to settle Mrs Ps claim then shes free to make a further complaint to 
Admiral about how it offers to do so, and then to this service in due course if she remains 
unhappy.
Its important that I say if Admiral agrees to settle Mrs Ps claim then Id also expect it to 
remove fraud markers its placed in its internal and any external databases.
Its my understanding that Mrs P has said that if Admiral decline her claim, and Ive said 
above that it cannot solely use the existing report as its reason for doing so, then she is 
prepared to pursue the matter in court. This is her right.
Reponses to my provisional decision
Admiral didnt respond. Mrs P responded and accepted my provisional decision. She pointed 
out that shed also asked for her costs to be covered as part of her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mrs Ps response which says she did complain to Admiral about her costs and 
expenses. I agree she did include this in her complaint, but only after Admiral had issued its 
final response. So Im not able to consider it further here and Id draw her attention to the 
paragraph in my provisional decision about how Admiral might settle her claim and her 
possible subsequent actions.
As Mrs Ps accepted my provisional decision and because Admiral didnt respond, my final 
decision and reasoning remain the same as in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to reconsider Mrs Ps claim as Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman