DRN-3697585
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy.
Mr L has primarily dealt with things, so for simplicity Ill refer to him only.
Reference to RSA includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mr L bought a home in 2016 and had work carried out, including an extension with a 
new roof, the following year.
In 2020, Mr L discovered damage to the roof and got in touch with RSA. He took 
advice from a builder, D, whilst RSA also took advice from a surveyor, S.
Based on the reports of D and S, RSA declined the claim. It said the damage had 
been caused gradually and as a result of poor workmanship  both of which are 
excluded from policy cover.
Mr L got in touch with P, an architect who oversaw the extension. They noted the 
extension had received a completion certificate from Building Control. And they said 
the frost damage must have occurred since construction was completed.
RSA didnt change its position, so Mr L referred his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He wasnt persuaded RSA 
had shown either exclusion applied. He recommended RSA accept the claim and pay 
£250 compensation.
Mr L agreed but RSA didnt. It said the damage had been caused by frost and 
maintained it was fair to decline the claim for the reasons previously stated.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls policy provides all risks cover. That means damage to the building is covered 
unless excluded by a policy term. Its accepted there was damage to the roof. RSA 
has relied on two policy terms to decline the claim. They are:
Damage of any kind directly caused by or resulting from the following:
1. Poor or faulty design, workmanship or materials
2. Anything which happens gradually
The onus is on RSA to show at least one of these policy terms applies in order to 
decline the claim.
Evidence about the damage
D inspected the roof. It said the mortar and pointing was crumbling and consistent 
with frost damage. It described dislodged pointing and poor condition mortar to the 
extent the tiles could be lifted with one finger. D said the main reason for the mortar 
to fail was frost after works were carried out in January and February 2017. I 
understand Mr L asked D to repair the roof damage.
S visited and at that time the repairs had been carried out. As a result, it said it 
couldnt be certain what caused the problem. Based on what D had found, it agreed 
that carrying out mortar work in freezing temperatures could cause the damage 
described. It also suggested the mortar mix may have been too weak.
P said it had seen the damage before D had finished repairs. It noted the mortar and 
pointing was obviously perished and the tiles could be easily removed. It said this 
could only have occurred due to frost damage and, based on weather records, 
thought it unlikely to have been during the work in early 2017. Instead it was likely to 
have happened in one of the following winters prior to the damage being discovered 
 2017, 2018 or 2019. It noted the builder had been told to use the correct mortar mix 
and take steps to protect the roof during construction.
RSA asked S to consider what P had said. It did and maintained its earlier 
conclusions. It didnt think the weather records were a reliable indicator of the 
conditions at Mr Ls home. Or that there was evidence to show the builder had done 
as P had asked.
Mr L has questioned S independence, as it was appointed by RSA. I note the author 
of S report is a chartered member of a relevant professional body. So Im satisfied 
theyre acting independently and providing their professional opinion regardless of 
who appointed them. Similarly, although D and P were appointed by Mr L, I also 
consider them to be independent professionals giving their opinion.
Poor or faulty design, workmanship or materials
It seems P asked the builder to take the required steps during construction. Although 
S notes evidence to show those steps were actually taken hasnt been provided, Mr L 
received a certificate of completion from the local building control office to say the 
work complied with the requirements of Building Regulations.
I dont think this supports RSAs argument that the design, workmanship or materials 
was poor or faulty. S said it was possible the mortar mix was incorrect and that the 
builder may not have protected the roof. Neither D nor P shared these concerns  
and both saw the damage first-hand. So I dont think the weight of opinion supports 
RSA on this point.For these reasons, Im not persuaded RSA has shown the policy term relating to 
workmanship applies. So Im not satisfied it would be fair to rely on it to decline the 
claim.
Anything which happens gradually
D, S and P all say frost caused the damage, so Im satisfied thats likely to be the 
case. The question is whether that damage happened gradually.
Mr L has pointed out that S didnt specifically say the damage was gradual. And that 
P has clarified they thought the frost damage happened in one of the intervening 
winters, not during all of them.
I dont think S needed to specify it thought the frost damage was gradual in order for 
RSA to reasonably reach that conclusion. Frost damage by its nature is usually a 
gradual process. As water in and around the mortar and pointing freezes and thaws 
over time, it causes cracks and weakens the material.
Whether that process happens over years or months, I consider its likely to be a 
gradual process unless theres evidence to show otherwise. I havent seen anything 
to suggest the damage here was indicative of a sudden or severe bout of frost in a 
short period of time.
The comments of all three professionals are very similar about the nature of the 
damage  the mortar and pointing has crumbled in places and the tiles they are 
supposed to hold in place are loose. In my experience, this kind of damage is 
indicative of gradual deterioration rather than the impact of a more sudden event.
Overall that means Im persuaded RSA has shown the policy term relating to gradual 
damage applies. So Im satisfied it would be fair to rely on it to decline the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr L did. Ill summarise the main points he made:
RSA initially declined the claim based on S view that the mortar mix may have been 
incorrect and the works may have been carried out in freezing temperatures. S didnt 
say the damage was gradual. RSA understood P had said the damage was gradual, 
although its now been accepted P said the damage occurred in one of the winters  
not during all of them. Mr L questioned how RSA concluded the damage was gradual 
in these circumstances.
S was aware of and mentioned Ds report rather than carrying out its survey 
independently.
RSA said P had confirmed the damage was gradual  but this isnt what its report 
said. Mr L suggests RSA has fabricated evidence.RSA failed to act promptly when notified of the claim, which meant S wasnt able to 
inspect the damage prior to D carrying out repairs. Mr L mentioned the role played by 
his broker, but I cant hold RSA responsible for the acts or omissions of the broker.
Neither party questioned the view I expressed about the exclusion for poor workmanship. So 
I see no need to repeat my findings about that  they still stand.
The focus now is on the exclusion for gradual damage  and the evidence to support it.
All three professionals thought the damage had been caused by frost. That isnt in doubt. 
Whilst none of them specifically said the frost damage was gradual, neither did any of them 
say it was sudden.
Frost damage is an inherently gradual process. So I think the default position is that frost 
damage is gradual unless its shown to have been sudden in a particular case. Given there 
was no suggestion the frost damage was sudden in this case, Im satisfied it was reasonable 
for RSA to rely on the exclusion for gradual damage. I think it was reasonable for RSA to 
conclude the damage was gradual, as all professionals involved agreed it had been caused 
by frost and there was nothing to indicate that it happened suddenly.
I dont think there was a significant delay in RSA dealing with the claim. Whilst S couldnt see 
the damage first-hand, D and P did. All professionals have broadly agreed the cause of 
damage was frost and none of them have suggested it happened suddenly. It would have 
been preferable for things to move quicker and for S to see the damage for itself. But Im not 
persuaded that would have likely had a material impact on the expert evidence.
As S couldnt see the damage for itself, I can understand why it referred to the findings of D, 
who did. Its common for surveyors to take into account other professional opinions when 
preparing reports, especially where another opinion had the benefit of greater evidence.
RSA said S had confirmed the damage was gradually operating. I agree with Mr L that this 
isnt literally what S said. I think its RSAs interpretation of what S said. It was unhelpful and 
inaccurate of RSA to say this. Mr L understood S had prepared a second report in which it 
said this, and it took RSA longer than Id expect to correct the misunderstanding.
S report described frost damage in a way which conveys its gradual nature and also 
mentioned the deterioration of the cement and mortar which is again indicative of a gradual 
process. It would have been more accurate for RSA to say S had described damage that it 
thought was gradual or that RSA thought S report showed the damage was gradual. But I 
dont think that what RSA said amounted to fabricating evidence. RSA didnt explain itself 
as clearly as it ought to have done but Im not persuaded it set out to mislead Mr L.
Although RSAs lack of clarity was unhelpful, I dont think it made a significant difference. 
Even if it had been clear it was interpreting S report when saying the damage was gradual, I 
think broadly the same next steps would have followed.
Its clear Mr L feels very strongly that hes been treated unfairly by RSA. Based on all the 
evidence available and taking into account everything said by both parties, Im satisfied RSA 
acted fairly when it declined the claim and I havent identified any material failings in the way 
it handled the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman