DRN-1801790
The complaint
Mrs O is unhappy AXA Insurance UK Plc is refusing to repair damage to a bathroom she 
says was caused by an escape of water. 
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what has happened and therefore it does not include 
all of the events that happened or a detailed timeline.
Mrs O has a buildings insurance policy for a property she rents out. She was informed by the 
tenant there had been a water leak. Mrs O called AXA to make a claim under the policy. 
AXA found there had been a leak on the cold-water supply to the toilet at low level in the 
shower room. It agreed to cover the costs of repairing the damage in the shower room, 
caused by the leak. Water had also been tracked to the hallway carpet from the shower 
room as the tenant moved in and out of the shower room, so AXA agreed to pay towards this 
being repaired as well. It offered Mrs O a cash settlement towards the cost of these repairs 
as Mrs O wanted to appoint her own tradesperson.
Mrs O was unhappy as she said the water leak had also caused damage to the adjoining 
bathroom. She said the water had gone through the wall and caused damage to the floor 
and walls in the bathroom. AXA disagreed, it said there was no evidence the water had 
tracked that far. Moisture level readings, taken from the bathroom wall were within normal 
tolerance so AXA didnt think the damage Mrs O was reporting in the bathroom was linked to 
the water leak in the shower room. AXAs surveyor said they thought the damage to the 
bathroom was more likely caused by failure of sealants/grout and general lack of 
maintenance. However, as Mrs O was unhappy it said it would seek a second opinion from a 
drying specialist. 
Before this specialist could be appointed, Mrs O had work done to strip out and repair the 
bathroom. She provided AXA with photos of the bathroom floor and area surrounding the 
bath, which she said showed discolouration from a water leak. Mrs O said the heating was 
on within the property so that may explain why moisture readings that were taken from the 
bathroom wall were within normal range  as it had dried within that time. She asked AXA 
again to cover the cost of the repairs as she felt the photos proved the damage was linked. 
AXA didnt change its position, it said that as Mrs O had now had work done, she had 
prejudiced its position to be able to fully investigate the matter. It referred the photos to its 
surveyor, but they reiterated their previous findings. They also said some of the damage 
Mrs O was reporting to the bathroom was too far removed from the original leak and at a 
higher level, so they believed this reinforced their findings that the damage wasnt linked. 
Mrs O complained about AXAs decision, but it didnt change its position, so she brought the 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked at the case and told Mrs O he didnt think AXA had acted unfairly by 
reaching the decision it had. But he did think there were times when AXA could have 
updated Mrs O more proactively during the claim, so he thought it should pay Mrs O £100 
compensation. 
Mrs O didnt accept the investigators findings, she said she thought AXA was attempting to 
avoid paying out on a valid claim. She said she had to complete the work as her tenant was 
elderly and vulnerable so she didnt think this fact should then be used against her as a 
reason why AXA wont meet the repair costs to the bathroom. Mrs O provided a report from 
a plumbing specialist to AXA and this service, which said there was clear evidence of heavy 
water damage to the bathroom and it was the plumbing specialists belief the water had 
tracked through the floor and wall to the bathroom. The opinion was based upon the photos 
Mrs O had provided. 
Neither AXA or our investigator were minded to change their position, so Mrs O asked for 
the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. 
The case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted there was a water leak and, as this is an insured peril under Mrs Os policy, 
AXA has agreed to pay for the costs of the associated damage to be repaired. However, 
AXA has said that not only does it believe the damage to the bathroom is unrelated to the 
water leak in the shower room. It believes any damage in the bathroom is likely due to failure 
of sealants/grout. There is a specific exclusion in the policy for damage caused by failure of 
sealants/grout, so AXA says it doesnt need to pay to repair this damage. 
What I need to decide is if AXAs position is fair and reasonable based on the evidence 
available to me. 
Where there are conflicting expert reports as in this case, I must determine which I think, on 
balance, is the more persuasive evidence. In this case, the opinions of the experts are, in 
summary, as follows:
The water that escaped tracked through the floor and party wall between the shower 
room and bathroom causing the floor to swell and the grout on the floor tiles to crack 
and lift. This resulted in the floor tiles lifting and becoming unsafe for the tenant. The 
damage caused in the bathroom and to the floor is a result of the same water leak.
The damage in the bathroom is unrelated to the escape of water in the shower room 
which was at low level. The damage in the bathroom is likely due to poor/failed 
sealant and grout. The moisture levels in the bathroom wall were within normal 
tolerance and there was no evidence of water tracking through the wall to the 
bathroom. Some of the damage claimed is too far removed from the original leak and 
at a higher level.
Mrs Os expert has provided their opinion nearly eight months after the leak and based it on 
photos that Mrs O provided to them and the circumstances she described. 
AXAs surveyor inspected the damage at the time, before any strip out or repairs had taken 
place. 
Having reviewed all the evidence provided Im more persuaded by the opinion of AXAs 
surveyor, given the inspection was carried out at the time, the damage observed is detailed and rationale has been given behind the decision that was reached. AXA also referred back 
to the surveyor that inspected Mrs Os property and provided them with the information and 
report Mrs O put forward. They provided their further reasoned opinion as to why they 
believe the damage to be unrelated to the original escape of water. 
Considering all of the evidence available to me, I think AXA has dealt with Mrs Os claim 
fairly and reasonably and, in line with the policy terms. It has offered a cash settlement to 
cover the cost of the damage in the shower room and hallway related to the water leak. And, 
declined to consider the damage in the bathroom as it is unrelated and likely caused by a 
failure of sealant/grout. Im satisfied there is a specific exclusion in the policy for damage 
caused this way, so AXA doesnt need to cover this damage. 
The investigator recommended £100 compensation be paid to Mrs O which I think is fair and 
it reasonably reflects the trouble and upset she was caused by the lack of updates from 
AXA. Mrs O had to contact AXA on several occasions to find out what was happening on the 
claim. 
Putting things right
To put things right, AXA should pay Mrs O £100 compensation. It should also arrange for 
any outstanding claim payments to be made to Mrs O. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Os complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc. I direct it to 
pay Mrs O £100 compensation. It should also arrange for any outstanding claim payments to 
be made to Mrs O.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman