DRN-3572068
The complaint
Ms J has complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt with a 
claim under her home insurance policy and failing to take her disabilities into account 
properly.
What happened
Ms J contacted RSA to make a claim for an escape of water in her home. RSA dealt with the 
claim and Ms J had to move to alternative accommodation. Ms J was unhappy with how 
RSA dealt with the alternative accommodation, including that it didnt provide her with 
enough support because of her disability. So, she complained.
When RSA replied, it said it needed to validate the claim, including the alternative 
accommodation part. Due to the information obtained about the alternative accommodation, 
it needed to check whether the payments were being made to Ms J for her own property. 
RSA paid two invoices Ms J sent  after a delay  but has yet to pay the remaining invoices. 
Were looking into the remaining invoices as a separate complaint, so I wont be saying more 
about them in this decision. However, RSA accepted that Ms J had provided information 
about the alternative accommodation shed stayed in and was then asked for the same 
information again a few months later. Had this not happened, RSA agrees the issue with the 
alternative accommodation would have been resolved sooner. So, it offered Ms J £200 
compensation.
Ms J was unhappy with RSAs response saying that it hadnt understood most of her 
complaint. So, Ms J complained to this service. Our investigator said RSA didnt need to do 
anything further. She said it was reasonable for RSA to ask questions about the alternative 
accommodation. She also said the compensation offered was reasonable in response to the 
delays.
Ms J didnt agree with our investigator, and thought that they too hadnt understood her 
complaint or dealt with all of the issues. In particular, she wasnt happy with the lack of care 
and support RSA showed her during the claim. As Ms J didnt agree, the complaint was 
referred to me. She was still unhappy that the remaining invoices for the alternative 
accommodation she stayed in hadnt been paid. But as Ive already mentioned were looking 
at that as a separate complaint, so I wont be saying more about them in this decision.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 1 June 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
Ms J complained to RSA about issues related to alternative accommodation. Ms J said an 
Adjuster put a range of obstacles in the way to avoid paying invoices for the accommodation 
and he had offered to find cheaper accommodation but didnt then follow up on this. He also 
hadnt made any attempt to check whether she could continue to safely live in the alternative 
accommodation when the first Covid-19 lockdown came into force and hadnt contacted Ms 
J to confirm the date on which she could return to her home when the works were 
completed. Ms J was also unhappy with the tone of the emails sent by someone else at RSA 
 saying that they were unfriendly and hostile  and the tight deadlines they set. Ms J says 
the deadlines didnt take account of her disabilities, and how difficult she was finding it to 
reply quickly. Ms J also told this service she thought she had been treated less favourably 
because she had a disability.
Looking at what happened, I can see that a few weeks after the claim started, RSA identified 
that Ms J would need to move to alternative accommodation while the works took place. The 
records also show that on three occasions RSA told Ms J this could be arranged through its 
accommodation service. They also show that Ms J initially said she was happy for the work 
to wait until after Christmas, and that the work then seemed to be brought forward meaning 
Ms J needed alternative accommodation as a matter of urgency. At this stage Ms J appears 
to have looked for alternative accommodation herself  understandably so as she would 
have been worried that she was about to have to move out so the work on her property 
could start. Ive listened to a phone call that took place after this in which Ms J told RSA she 
had found suitable accommodation and explained the costs. RSA said it could arrange to 
make the payment, but Ms J would need to provide a quote to show the costs. Ms J agreed 
to provide this. 
It was after this that an Adjuster was appointed to deal with the claim. Ms J has said the 
Adjuster offered to move her to cheaper accommodation. Ive looked at RSAs records. 
These show the Adjuster reviewed the accommodation costs very shortly after he started 
dealing with the claim and that he assessed the costs were reasonable and less than RSA 
would pay if Ms J moved to a hotel. The Adjuster carried out further reviews and came to the 
same conclusion. I didnt see anything in RSAs records to show the Adjuster offered to find 
other accommodation. However, from what Ive seen Ms J seemed to be under the 
impression that the Adjuster had made this offer. Ive seen emails Ms J sent around that 
time, for example, asking the Adjuster for an update on finding cheaper accommodation. I 
havent seen any evidence the Adjuster replied on this point to explain the position and deal 
with any misunderstanding. I think the Adjuster should have replied to Ms J to explain he 
wasnt looking to move Ms J to cheaper accommodation if, as RSA says, that was the case 
so that she was clear on the position. By not doing so, I think this helped to form Ms Js 
sense that RSA wasnt providing her with the support she expected. Im also aware Ms J 
was unhappy about the emails she was sent by someone else at RSA later in the claim, 
which Ill look at later in my decision.
Ive looked at how RSA dealt with the first two accommodation invoices. When Ms J 
provided an invoice for the accommodation, the Adjuster phoned Ms J to introduce himself. I 
dont know exactly what was discussed during the phone call, but the Adjuster followed up 
with an email the same day summarising the present position on the claim. As part of that, 
he said the invoice didnt provide any details of who the accommodation was arranged 
through and asked for details related to this and where Ms J was living at that time. Ms J 
replied a couple of days later with details of the accommodation. Based on the records Ive 
seen, RSA assessed the costs and a few weeks later agreed they were reasonable and that 
the first invoice for accommodation costs should be paid. A couple of weeks later, RSA 
approved the second invoice it received for the accommodation. I think the checks RSA 
carried out and the queries it raised with Ms J were the type of enquiries an insurer would 
normally make when checking if a claim was valid. So, I dont think it did something unusual 
or unreasonable by carrying out these checks, although I think it could have dealt with the 
first and second invoices sooner than it did.
Shortly after this, the first Covid-19 lockdown came into force. About two weeks later, Ms J 
provided the third and fourth invoices for the accommodation. From what Ive seen, about 
two months later, the Adjuster emailed Ms J to ask for bank statements to show previous 
payments she had made for the accommodation and to query whether the person who 
owned the accommodation was also living there. Nearly two months later, Ms J provided 
receipts for the accommodation. A few days after that, the Adjuster emailed Ms J and said the proof needed to be in the form of a bank statement. Ms J then provided bank statements. 
However, she didnt hear anything further. 
From what Ive seen, a few months later, the Adjuster emailed Ms J for some more 
information, although RSAs records dont seem to show what it requested. Ms J replied and 
said she and RSA now appeared to be going in circles. She said evidence related to the 
accommodation and payments had already been provided, but no response had been 
received from RSA. Ms J re-sent the requested items. About a week later, Ms J complained 
to RSA about how the Adjuster was dealing with her claim.
Looking at what happened, I think it was reasonable for RSA to query details around the 
invoices and the alternative accommodation. RSA had concerns about who owned the 
property and who the money was being paid to, as records suggested Ms J was one of the 
owners. Ms J later confirmed her mother owned it. As Ive already said, I think its normal for 
an insurer to check the details of a claim and to ask for further information where this is 
needed to show a claim is valid. However, I think RSA could have asked some of its 
questions more promptly and I can see that at times it asked Ms J for information she had 
previously provided. So, I can understand that Ms J was concerned about how this was 
being handled and that her claim wasnt being dealt with as quickly or efficiently as she 
would have expected.
Ms J has also said she was treated less favourably because of her disability and that RSA 
failed to make reasonable adjustments. So, Ive also thought about this and the adjustments 
Ms J says RSA should have made for her.
When alternative accommodation is required, insurers should take steps to ensure theyre 
taking care of policyholders who have a disability. RSA has told us that it has a specialist 
service that can help find alternative accommodation for policyholders with, for example, a 
disability. From what Ive seen, and as Ive already mentioned above, RSA discussed with 
Ms J about it being able to instruct the specialist service. 
Ms J also complained that the Adjuster didnt check whether the accommodation remained 
suitable when the first Covid-19 lockdown came into force. From what Ive seen, RSA knew 
Ms J was vulnerable. Covid-19 was of an unprecedented nature and vulnerable people were 
at particular risk. Im aware Ms J was in accommodation she had arranged herself. However, 
Ms J had arranged that accommodation before Covid-19 was widely understood to be an 
issue. So, although she had arranged it herself, this was based on the situation at that time. 
RSA has since accepted that it could have done more, given what it knew at the time, in 
what, as Ive already mentioned, were challenging times for businesses and consumers.
Im aware that Ms J contacted RSA a couple of weeks into the lockdown to provide the third 
and fourth invoices and didnt raise any issues. I think this was an indication that Ms J didnt 
appear to have any concerns about where she was living. But I havent seen any evidence 
that RSA reviewed the situation when Covid-19 restrictions came into force, whether 
internally or by asking Ms J directly, as it has now accepted it perhaps should have done. 
Although Im mindful that businesses were also having to rapidly adapt to the changing 
circumstances, I think RSA is right to have accepted that it could have taken a more pro-
active approach to check Ms J was in suitable accommodation. By not doing so, I think it 
reinforced Ms Js view that she wasnt being offered support, despite RSA being aware she 
was vulnerable.
Ms J also said the Adjuster didnt contact her to confirm when she could return to her 
property. Both Ms J and RSA have said a contractor told her when the works would be 
complete. So, I think Ms J was made aware of when she could move home. Although Ms J 
might also have wanted RSA to provide her with this information, I havent seen anything to show Ms J explained to RSA that she needed this additional confirmation or that the Adjuster 
had reason to think the contractor telling her wasnt enough information or enough notice for 
her to act on it. However, again, I can understand why Ms J might have felt she wasnt being 
supported by RSA.
Ms J has said someone else at RSA also asked her questions about the alternative 
accommodation and put pressure on her to respond by arbitrary deadlines, which impacted 
her mental health. Ive already said that its normal for insurers to ask questions about claims 
and to provide a deadline for response. Following Ms J saying her mental health was 
impacted, I think although RSA continued to give deadlines for response, the tone was less 
forceful. RSA also mentioned that Ms J could respond via a proxy. Given both Ms J and RSA 
wanted the issue with the invoices to be resolved, I think it was reasonable for RSA to 
continue to set deadlines. I also think RSA adapted its approach when Ms J explained the 
impact the requests were having on her mental health.
Ive also thought about compensation. When RSA considered the complaint, it agreed there 
were delays in it considering the alternative accommodation claim. It offered £200 
compensation. As Ive already said, although I think it was reasonable for RSA to look into 
the claim for alternative accommodation, I think there were some unnecessary delays while 
looking at this and that Ms J was also asked to supply information she had already provided. 
I also think RSA should have responded to Ms Js point about whether it was going to move 
her to cheaper accommodation and could have more clearly demonstrated it was aware Ms 
J was vulnerable and might need support. Looking at everything that happened, Im currently 
of the view that RSA should pay a total of £400 compensation, which includes the £200 it 
previously offered, as I think this more fairly reflects the issues Ms J experienced during the 
claim.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 29 June 2022.
Ms J provided a number of comments, which I have summarised:
The RSA call handler advised Ms J to wait until after Christmas for works to be carried 
out as it could take about two weeks. Ms J agreed to this to avoid disrupting festive 
celebrations.
Ms J didnt choose to find her own alternative accommodation. She had expected RSA 
to do this and it was her preference that it did. As the move grew closer, the RSA call 
handler told her she would need to arrange the accommodation herself. She then 
desperately looked around for accommodation. In desperation, she arranged the 
accommodation she then moved to. At no point was she told of RSAs accommodation 
service in relation to her disability or otherwise.
Shortly after Ms J moved to the accommodation, RSA phoned to say she would be 
moved to cheaper accommodation. Ms J accepted this and gave notice on her 
accommodation. Ms J then followed up on this, but RSA then didnt sort it out. RSA also 
asked for receipts when it knew the funds hadnt been disbursed. RSA continued to stall 
authorisation for the invoice payments until Ms J threatened to move home, with the risk 
that involved.
When the drying was complete and the report submitted, RSA didnt follow up on this. 
Ms J had to bring this to RSAs attention.
The delays led to the repair work and alternative accommodation being caught up in a 
lockdown. No-one contacted Ms J which caused her great anxiety, including because 
she still expected to be moved to new accommodation. Ms J had to follow up on this and 
was told that a contractor had been furloughed.After Ms J complained to RSA, its questioning took on a hostile tone and was offensively 
accusatory without evidence.
Even though Ms J found the accommodation herself, it was with the understanding that 
she would be there a few weeks and wasnt necessarily suited to longer term living with 
a disability, despite it being situated close to a hospital and accessible to doctors. It was 
unbelievable that no wellbeing check was carried out.
It was the responsibility of RSA to agree and confirm the return date to her property and 
was another example of neglect.
Disability is a protected characteristic which must be taken seriously. At no point did RSA 
demonstrate any regard to its legal responsibility.
The compensation didnt take full account of the reluctance and delays in paying the 
invoices, lack of support in finding accommodation, not making good on promises to find 
alternative accommodation, neglect during the lockdown and RSAs disregard for its 
responsibilities towards the disabled.
RSA replied and agreed to pay the additional compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, Ive considered each of the points that Ms J raised in 
response to my decision to consider what is a fair and reasonable outcome, even if I dont 
comment on each point here. 
When I made my provisional decision, I looked at each of the issues that Ms J raised and 
reviewed in detail what happened during the claim. Each of the issues that Ms J has raised 
in response to my provisional decision are issues I specifically considered both in terms of 
what most likely happened and in terms of compensation. Ive looked again at each of the 
points Ms J has raised and they dont change my view of the decision overall and how I think 
this complaint should be resolved. I remain of the view that RSA should pay a total of £400 
compensation, which includes the £200 it previously offered.
Putting things right
RSA should pay Ms J a total of £400 compensation, which includes the £200 it previously 
offered.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay a total 
of £400 compensation, which includes the £200 it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman