DRN-4232604
The complaint
Ms K complains Arval UK Limited (Arval) wont reimburse her for the cost of repairs for a car 
that was supplied to her under a hire agreement. 
What happened
In May 2021, Ms K entered into a 36 month hire agreement for a new car. She made an 
initial payment of £247 and thereafter she was required to pay monthly instalments of £247. 
As part of the agreement, she also selected to purchase a car maintenance package at a 
monthly cost of around £21.
In June 2022, a fault was found with the clutch and it needed to be replaced. Ms K was told 
the repair wouldnt be covered under warranty nor under the car maintenance package, 
meaning she was liable for the cost. Arval said the damage to the clutch was caused by Ms 
Ks driving style. 
Ms K paid over £820 for the replacement of the clutch. She complained. In summary, she 
said she was an experienced driver, she hadnt caused the fault and she didnt give her 
approval for the repairs to be carried out despite Arval initially asking her authority to do so. 
She requested to be reimbursed for the repair. Arval maintained their position as outlined 
above. 
Unhappy with their response, the complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint was upheld. He said given the cars age and mileage and the 
lack of evidence to support Arvals allegation, he believed the fault with the clutch was most 
likely to be an inherent manufacturing fault rather than it being due to Ms Ks driving style. 
He said he didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality at supply. To put things right he 
said Arval should reimburse Ms K for the cost of the repair and pay £100 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused. 
Arval disagreed. They said the clutch had been damaged by heat and overuse. They 
reiterated their belief that the fault was caused by Ms K and it was likely she was riding the 
clutch. They commented they wouldnt expect such damage for a car of that age and 
mileage. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ks complaint. I will explain why. 
Ms K acquired a car under a regulated credit agreement. Arval was the supplier of the goods 
under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about the supply 
and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that, under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the 
other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the 
age and mileage. 
In this case, Ms K was supplied with a new car so it would be reasonable to expect the 
quality of it to be higher than a more well used one and it would be free from defects and for 
a significant amount of time. 
Ms K experienced issues with the clutch approximately 12 months after she acquired the car 
and it had travelled around 12,600 miles at that point. 
Based on the evidence, its clear there was a fault with the clutch, thats not in dispute. What 
I must decide is whether that fault was present or developing at supply or whether it was 
caused by Ms Ks driving style as alleged by Arval. 
Ive carefully considered the comments of the technician who looked at the car and the 
pictures of the clutch. Its said the clutch had signs of overheating and the lining was 
destroyed. I accept a persons driving style and use of a vehicle can affect the life span of a 
clutch but I must also take into account there could be other reasons.
In my opinion, Arval hasnt provided sufficient evidence for me to reasonably say the fault 
was caused by Ms Ks driving style and theres no indication they considered whether it 
couldve been caused by anything else. Ms K has told our service that she is an experienced 
driver of over 25 years and has never had any clutch issues caused by her driving style. 
Shes also commented she wasnt given the opportunity for the car to be looked at by 
another party (to get a second opinion) because the repairs were carried out without her 
approval.
But even if I was to believe Ms K did have poor driving habits (which to reiterate I dont have 
enough evidence to say that was the case), I wouldnt expect the clutch to be damaged to 
the extent that it needed a full replacement after only having travelled around 12,600 miles. 
Id expect it to last longer than it did. When considering the satisfactory quality of a car, I 
must also consider durability. In this case, I find the clutch has failed prematurely which to 
my mind indicates its most likely there was already a fault when the car was supplied to Ms 
K. Meaning it wasnt reasonably durable.
Taking everything into account, given the cars age and mileage when the fault developed, 
Im not satisfied it was of satisfactory quality when supplied. Therefore I find it reasonable 
that Arval should accept responsibility for the cost of the repairs and reimburse Ms K for the 
same. In addition, given Ms K had to return the car for repair and arrange its collection, I also 
find Arval should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ks complaint. 
- Reimburse Ms K for the cost of the repair to the clutch plus pay 8% simple interest per 
annum on this amount from the date of payment up to the date of settlement*;
- Pay £100 compensation to Ms K for the trouble and upset caused. *If Arval UK Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms K how much its taken off. It should also give 
Ms K a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman