DRN-4254830
The complaint
Mr G complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited voided his policy and 
declined his claim for subsidence.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr G took out home insurance through a broker in February 2021. AA underwrote the 
buildings insurance part of the policy. The policy renewed in February 2022.
Mr G got in touch with AA in June 2022 after he noticed cracks in his home. AA 
appointed a loss adjuster. They thought the damage may have been caused by 
subsidence and recommended further investigations. They reported Mr G as saying 
that part of the building had been underpinned around 40 years ago.
AA noted that when Mr G took out the policy, he said his home had never been 
subject to, or currently showed signs of, subsidence. But it thought this was incorrect 
based on what the loss adjuster had reported. AA said if it had known the property 
had previously suffered from subsidence and been underpinned, it wouldnt have 
offered the policy to Mr G. As a result, it voided the policy, declined the claim, and 
returned the premiums paid.
Mr G didnt think this was fair and complained. He said hed told the loss adjuster he 
wasnt sure if the building had been underpinned or not. He checked with the builder 
who carried out work 40 years ago and they said it hadnt been.
AAs complaint response said the decision to void the policy and decline the claim 
would be reviewed, as more investigation was warranted. It offered £300 
compensation and agreed to continue with the claim by carrying out monitoring.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think AA had 
shown Mr G had misrepresented his circumstances. As a result, he asked it to 
remove any record of policy cancellation and consider the claim in line with the terms 
of the policy. He thought the £300 compensation offered was reasonable.
AA said it had already agreed to investigate the matter further. And it couldnt do so 
until it had made a decision about the claim.
Mr G thought the distress caused to him by what had happened warranted more than 
£300 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AAs position is unclear. On the one hand, it voided Mr Gs policy and told him his claim was 
declined because he hadnt told it his home had been underpinned due to subsidence. On 
the other, when he complained, it acknowledged it hadnt sufficiently investigated the matter 
before voiding the policy and would go on to do so.
Rather than investigating it promptly or simply accepting the policy should be reinstated 
and putting that right straightaway  it seems to have continued with the claim without 
reinstating the policy and paused making a decision about the policy until later.
Whilst progressing the claim was helpful, this approach left Mr G uncertain about where he 
stood. With the policy voided, he had no buildings insurance. AA wouldnt offer him a new 
policy, and neither would other insurers in the circumstances.
AAs approach is highly unusual and I dont think it treated Mr G fairly. Ill explain why.
In a nutshell, AA thought Mr G hadnt provided the right information when he took out the 
policy. Hed been asked whether his home had ever been subject to, or currently showed 
signs of, subsidence. The same question was asked at the renewal. At both times he said 
no, but AA thought he should have said yes.
The relevant law for this situation is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (or CIDRA). It places a duty on the consumer to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. In summary, if Mr G fulfilled that duty, AA 
can take no action. If he didnt fulfil that duty, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to AA. 
The onus is on AA to show that Mr G didnt take reasonable care.
To support its position, AA relied on its loss adjusters notes that Mr G said his home had 
been underpinned around 40 years ago. He contests the accuracy of that note  his 
recollection is that he said work was carried out then, but he couldnt recall whether it 
included underpinning or not.
AA has provided notes of a call it had with Mr G. It shows he said there had been 
underpinning but also that he couldnt remember exactly what work was done. Given this 
happened 40 years ago, I dont think its unreasonable that he cant recall it clearly. AAs 
own internal notes recognise that even if the building had been underpinned, that doesnt 
necessarily mean it had suffered subsidence. And at no point in the call did Mr G say it had 
done. The question put to Mr G didnt mention underpinning  only subsidence.
Mr G later got in touch with the builder who said they didnt carry out any underpinning.
Taking all of this into account, Im not satisfied AA has shown that Mr G failed to take 
reasonable care when answering the question about subsidence. Theres no clear evidence 
to show the building previously suffered subsidence. Its also not clear it was underpinned, 
but thats not the key point. So AA has no remedy under CIDRA and can take no action.
To put things right, AA must return Mr G to the position he was in prior to the policy 
voidance. That means removing any record of it from any internal or external databases. 
Then, reinstating the policy and considering the claim subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
AA did effectively consider the claim, despite voiding the policy, as it setup monitoring and 
took readings. So the claim hasnt been brought to a standstill and thats reduced the 
negative impact on Mr G. But Ive no doubt his experience has been made more distressing 
and inconvenient than it needed to be as a result of the way AA handled things. Im satisfied £300 compensation is reasonable in the circumstances. If AA has already paid that, it need 
pay no more compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to:
Remove any records of policy voidance or cancellation from any internal or external 
databases.
Reinstate the policy and reconsider the claim subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Pay £300 compensation if not done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman