DRN-2877675
The complaint
Mr G complains that Stonebridge International Insurance Ltd has turned down a claim he 
made on an Accidental Cash Plan (ACP) policy.
What happened
Mr G took out an ACP in 2012. The ACP is designed to pay out a cash benefit if a 
policyholder is hospitalised as the direct result of an accident. 
On 19 June 2019, Mr G was helping his friend to carry out some gardening. However, Mr G 
noticed the tree he was working on was falling over and so he grabbed onto a grip line. He 
said this caused a big jerk, followed by pain. On 27 June 2019, Mr G saw a surgeon who 
diagnosed a scar hernia. Mr G said he didnt tell the surgeon about the gardening incident. 
Subsequently, Mr G was admitted to hospital as an in-patient twice. Once between the 25 
and 31 July 2019 and second, between 22 and 28 August 2019. He made a claim under the 
ACP. Stonebridge turned down Mr Gs claim. It relied on medical evidence provided by Mr 
Gs surgeon, which stated that the gardening incident wasnt noted in its records. The 
surgeon also stated that the admission of 25 July 2019 was mainly due to sigmoid 
perforation with consecutive laparotomy. The surgeon said that the admission wasnt 
exclusively down to a fall event. The records suggested that the second admission was due 
to gastroenteritis. So Stonebridge didnt conclude that Mr G had been hospitalised as the 
direct result of an accident. It declined to pay Mr G any benefit. 
Mr G was unhappy with Stonebridges decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Stonebridge had treated Mr G unfairly. She considered the 
policy terms and she thought it was reasonable for Stonebridge to have concluded that the 
medical evidence didnt fall within the scope of policy cover. She also felt it mightve been 
reasonable for Mr G to have mentioned the gardening incident to the hospital when he was 
admitted for treatment. Overall, she felt it was fair for Stonebridge to turn down the claim. 
Mr G disagreed and Ive summarised his responses. He didnt believe that Stonebridge had 
asked his treating surgeon the right questions, as it appeared itd enquired about a fall. He 
didnt consider he was obliged to report any potential claim immediately to Stonebridge. And 
he didnt immediately mention the gardening incident to his doctor, because he hadnt 
associated his pain with the work hed done. This was the same reason he hadnt mentioned 
the incident to the surgeon whod treated him. He felt Stonebridge shouldve contacted the 
GP again to ask for the right information. He told us that Stonebridge had told him hed made 
the maximum number of complaints. And he indicated that he was going to ask for further 
evidence from the treating surgeon.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Stonebridge to turn down Mr Gs claim. Ill explain why. 
First, its important that I make clear that this decision will only address Stonebridges 
decision to turn down Mr Gs claim based on the medical evidence available to it in May 
2020, when it issued its final response to the complaint. I appreciate Mr G has told us that he 
is seeking further medical evidence from the treating surgeon in support of his claim. Its 
open to him to obtain such evidence from the surgeon and to send this to Stonebridge for it 
to consider. If Mr G is unhappy with the outcome of any further assessment of his claim 
based on such new evidence, hell need to make a new complaint to Stonebridge about that 
issue alone, before we can potentially look into it. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Gs policy and the available medical evidence to decide whether Stonebridge 
handled the claim fairly. 
Ive first turned to consider the terms and conditions of the ACP, as these form the basis of 
Mr Gs contract with Stonebridge. The ACP provides the following cover:
This Accidental Cash Plan pays out benefit for every day of hospitalisation in Germany as a 
direct result of an accident in Germany or an out of country territory. (Bold is my 
emphasis). 
Stonebridge has defined what it means by an accident. The policy says: accident means a 
sudden, unexpected and unfortunate event that occurs whilst the policy is in force and which 
results directly from external and violent means. 
I think the terms of the contract make it clear then that in order for a claim to be covered, a 
policyholders hospitalisation must be as a direct result of an accident. This means that in 
order for me to find that Stonebridge had acted unfairly by turning down Mr Gs claim, Id 
need to be satisfied that the evidence showed his hospitalisations were directly caused by 
the gardening incident. 
Its a fundamental principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to demonstrate they have 
a valid claim on their policy. The burden of proof then rests with Mr G to show, on balance, 
that his admissions were the direct result of an accident. In this case, Stonebridge 
investigated the claim on Mr Gs behalf and wrote directly to his treating surgeon. This was 
so it could assess whether or not Mr Gs hospitalisations were directly caused by the 
gardening incident. I think this was a fair and appropriate step for Stonebridge to take. 
The treating surgeon didnt suggest that Mr G had been admitted as a direct result of the 
accident Mr G said he had. The letter says:
 1) The accident event of 19.6.20 is not known to us and does not appear in our records.
  2) The hospital stay from 25.07. to 31.07.2019 is not exclusively due to the fall event. 
  3) The above-mentioned inpatient stay is mainly due to the sigmoid perforation with    
consecutive laparotomy.
Stonebridges records also state that Mr Gs August 2019 admission was caused by 
gastroenteritis. In neither case then does it seem that the treating surgeon considered that Mr Gs hospitalisations were the direct result of an accident. I understand Mr G had 
undergone a laparotomy in 2018 and the scar hernia he was diagnosed with in July 2019 
was linked to that previous surgery. I acknowledge that the letter refers to the accident date 
as being June 2020, but as the letter was written in February 2020, it seems most likely that 
this was a typing mistake on the surgeons part. Mr G has also acknowledged that he didnt 
discuss the gardening incident with his treating doctors. 
Given the available medical evidence, I think it was fair for Stonebridge to conclude that Mr 
Gs claim wasnt covered by the terms of the ACP. I dont think its relevant whether 
Stonebridge asked the surgeon about a fall or a gardening accident. In my view, whats 
material are the facts that theres no evidence of an accident on Mr Gs records and that the 
treating doctor made a clear finding that the dominant cause of the scar hernia was the 2018 
laparotomy. And while I dont dispute that Mr G wasnt obliged to tell his doctors about the 
incident, it seems to me that if he considered this to be the major cause of the scar hernia, 
hed likely have discussed this with the doctors when he sought medical attention. 
Overall then, while I sympathise with Mr Gs position, as I appreciate he underwent painful 
surgery, Im satisfied that based on the evidence available at the relevant time, it was fair 
and reasonable for Stonebridge to turn down his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman