DRN-3139622
The complaint
Mr T complains that London Mutual Credit Union Limited (LCMU) didnt tell him the family 
protection plan they offered to their members had reviewable premiums.
What happened
Mr T purchased a family protection plan in 2007, after receiving a newsletter from LCMU. 
The plan, which also provided life cover for other family members, was a Group Policy 
available credit union members. An insurance company I will call company C initially 
provided the benefits of the policy, but another company has now taken over responsibility 
for the policy. 
LCMU emailed Mr T in June 2020 and told him the premium for the level of cover provided 
was going to increase from £19.20 to £26.40 per month because of a higher than expected 
number of claims. 
Mr T complained to LCMU and said they hadnt told him the premiums could increase when 
he took out the policy. Mr T said he wouldnt have purchased the policy if hed known the 
premium would increase. LCMU didnt uphold the complaint and referred Mr T to the terms 
of the Group Policy document. This explained the underwriters, in this case company C and 
its successor, were able increase the premium based on claims experience, although not 
more than once per year. Mr T wasnt happy with the response from LCMU, so he brought 
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our Investigators looked into things for Mr T and thought that LCMU hadnt done 
anything substantially wrong. Mr T didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an 
Ombudsman decides his complaint. It has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the response Mr T provided to the conclusions of the Investigator. I 
can confirm Ive read all the submissions and attachments Mr T sent, but I will only comment 
on aspects that I consider are relevant to his complaint. I understand Mr T has strong views 
that LCMU should have told him the premium for the plan could increase, but for very much 
the same reasons as the Investigator, Ive decided not to uphold the compliant. Ill now 
explain why.
I cant be certain what happened when Mr T submitted an application for the plan some 15 
years ago, or more to the crux of the complaint, what may have been said when he handed 
in the application at LCMUs offices. There are no records of a conversation and no other 
documents to support a substantive conversation took place at the time Mr T handed in the 
completed application form. So, Ive looked at the evidence available, and the submissions 
and testimony of Mr T and LCMU, and my decision will be based on what I think is more 
likely to have happened. 
Mr T says LCMU included a notification in a newsletter about the policy and that it was 
available to credit union members. A copy of this newsletter isnt available, but its agreed it 
offered Mr T the opportunity to join the Group Policy that had four levels of cover. Mr T 
selected a level of cover and included details of the family members he wanted covered. And 
he says he handed the completed an application form to staff in the credit union offices. Mr T 
says the staff at the office didnt tell him the premiums could increase. LCMU say that they 
dont provide advice sales and they would have sent the completed application form to 
company C without any comment on the premium. 
Mr T has provided me with further comments on a family funeral plan. I would respectfully 
point out that Mr Ts policy isnt a family funeral plan, its a Family Protection Plan. But Ive 
considered Mr Ts comment that this was part of a drive by LCMU to broaden their product 
range, and that he feels the sale was an advised sale. Taking what I consider is likely to 
have happened, I dont consider its likely Mr T received advice from LCMU about the 
suitability of the policy or whether the premiums were fixed or variable. Instead Im satisfied 
its more likely than not LCMU only gave Mr T the option to join the Group Policy, which he 
subsequently did.
After hed handed the completed application form to LCMU, company C wrote to him on 22 
March 2007. The letter confirms the start date of the policy and reminds Mr T to review the 
terms and conditions of the policy. The certificate of insurance is included and this says, 
The insurance covered by this certificate is subject to the terms and conditions of the above 
mentioned Group PolicyThe lnsured Member has the right to inspect the Group Policy at 
the office of the Policyholder, during its business hours. In this regard the Policyholder is 
LCMU, so its reasonable for me to conclude that this is where the details of the Group 
Policy were available for inspection if Mr T wanted to see them. 
LCMU provided a screenshot that supports they sent the policy documents to Mr T on 28 
March 2007. I cant say whether Mr T received this letter, but I consider its more likely than 
not LCMU sent it. LCMU arent able to provide copies of the actual document sent to Mr T 
and I dont this is unusual as the letter was sent in 2007. But, LCMU have provided a copy of 
the policy documents company C were providing at the time. The policy document says, 
Premium rates will be reviewed annually and may be changed no more than once a year. If 
we change the premium rate, we will five you thirty (30) days advance written notice. 
Having decided the letter of 28 March 2007 was more likely than not sent, Im persuaded 
LCMU took reasonable steps to ensure Mr T was aware the premiums could increase, albeit 
this was within the policy documents. Regardless of this, Mr T was earlier informed told by 
company C that the Group Policy and terms and conditions were available at the LCMU 
offices for him to review. Mr T says this implies LCMU wouldnt provide a copy if asked to. I 
dont agree this is likely to be the case. It seems more likely to me that, as the policyholder, 
LCMU would want to keep the original Group Policy documents safe and therefore it seems 
reasonable they were made available for review if requested. And I consider it would have 
been reasonable for Mr T to review these terms and conditions to satisfy himself the policy 
was what he wanted as I cant see anything that persuades me LCMU provide the policy on 
an advised sale basis. 
In my opinion, LCMU didnt provide advice about the policy or its terms and conditions. 
Instead they offered their members the option to join the Group Policy through a newsletter. 
And I consider this places some responsibility on members who wanted to join to ensure the 
policy met their needs and they understood the terms of the policy.
After the premium increased, Mr T expressed concern the increase was excessive. I 
appreciate Mr T raised this matter at an annual general meeting of the credit union and was 
told that the credit union was in negotiations with the company C. I cant say what was meant by in negotiations, however, LCMU arent responsible for the premium increase and, 
in my decision I cant comment why the premium increased by the amount it did as the 
premium is set by company C or its successor. But, from the correspondence sent to Mr C, it 
seems company C provided an explanation why the premiums had increased. I understand 
Mr Ts concerns that the premiums increased shortly after a claim was made on the policy, 
but this is a matter for company C or its successor rather than LCMU.
Mr T has asked how many other credit union members went to see a copy of the Group 
Policy and terms and conditions, and why the Investigator didnt request this information. I 
dont consider this is relevant to Mr Ts complaint about the service LCMU provided to him. 
And its not disputed Mr T asked to see the terms and conditions at LCMUs offices. I am 
only considering the circumstances of this case, but Mr T can ask LCMU to provide this 
information if he wishes.
I noted Mr T refers me to another final decision issued by the Financial Ombudsman Service 
on a similar case. Ive looked at this case and there are some significant differences to the 
circumstances of Mr Ts complaint. Regardless of this my decision is based on the 
circumstances of Mr Ts complaint. 
LCMU says Mr T has been sent several reminder letters since the plan started and these 
told him of the potential for premium increases during the life of the policy. Although Mr T 
feels this demonstrates LCMU had something to hide because they didnt do enough to tell 
him of this at the start of the policy, I dont share this view. It seems more likely that company 
C and its successors were keeping the insured members informed that premiums could 
increase. In my opinion, I dont consider this supports that LCMU, had something to hide. 
My final decision
For the reasons above Ive decided not to uphold Mr T s complaint about London Mutual 
Credit Union Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman