DRN-4088072
The complaint
Mr L complains, through a claims management company (CMC), that Lloyds Bank PLC 
provided unsuitable investment advice, in particular when it recommended him to invest in a 
fund that was too risky for him as an inexperienced investor - especially given his personal 
circumstances following a recent and sudden bereavement. 
To put things right, Mr L would like financial compensation to put him into the position he 
would be in had he been given suitable investment advice.
What happened
In 1999, Mr L invested £70,000, split between the following investments:
 £7,000 into a stocks and shares Individual Savings Account ('ISA'), invested in the 
medium risk UK Growth Fund.
 £43,000.00 into an Open-ended Investment Company (OEIC) investment, invested in the 
medium risk UK Growth Fund.
 £20,000.00 into the low risk Guaranteed Stock Market Bond. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint that its investment recommendation had been 
unsuitable. Lloyds said it was satisfied that Mr L had capacity to invest this amount of money 
and his overall risk exposure had been appropriate. Based on the information it had 
available in its records, Lloyds said:
its advisor completed a full discussion of Mr Ls financial and personal circumstances 
prior to making the recommendation
the assessment took into account Mr Ls personal situation and his investment aims 
the funds Lloyds recommended Mr L to invest in were suitable for his personal 
situation and outlook and gave a spread of risk
Mr Ls personal circumstances at the time didnt stop him from investing for 
potentially better returns than savings 
Mr L had a cooling-off period after investing so he could have changed his mind if 
hed decided the investments were not right for him
Mr L kept the OEIC for around 14 years and the ISA for around 23 years, so they 
appear to have been affordable and sustainable for him.
Mr L wasnt happy with this response so he brought his complaint to us. 
When complaints concern events that happened more than six years ago, as here, the 
Financial Ombudsman Service cant always look into what happened. In this instance, 
Lloyds consented to us investigating Mr Ls complaint and our investigator looked into the 
circumstances of this sale.
The investigator didnt feel this was a complaint she could recommend upholding. After 
carefully considering Mr Ls circumstances and financial situation, and his investment 
objective, she was satisfied that Lloyds had fairly and reasonably concluded that the medium 
risk UK Growth Fund and the low risk Guaranteed Stock Market Bond were suitable 
investments for Mr L. This led the investigator to conclude that the recommendations were 
suitable and she didnt recommend that Lloyds should take any further action.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator. On his behalf, the CMC said, in brief summary:
the ISA and OEIC totalling £50,000 were invested into the UK Growth Fund which 
contained too much risk for Mr L as a first time investor, particularly taking into 
account his personal circumstances, and
the £20,000 Guaranteed Stock Market Bond was low in risk and more suitable  but 
the money had come from an inheritance following the unexpected death of a close 
family member and Mr L was grieving and emotionally vulnerable at this time and he 
was advised to invest too soon after his bereavement.
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
I've had the benefit of seeing some of the point of sale paperwork, including the information 
prepared by the advisor in the record of the Financial Interview (the fact find), which Mr L 
signed to confirm that the information recorded was accurate and that the risks and 
characteristics of the recommended investments had been explained to him. So, I think it is 
reasonable for me to rely on the information the point of sale paperwork shows about Mr Ls 
risk approach at the time. 
The following information is recorded in the fact find:
- Mr L had received an inheritance of £150,000 earlier that year and he currently held 
£144,000 in cash
- he had recently graduated and had several outstanding job applications he was 
waiting to hear back about 
- he was at the start of a professional career with the potential to be able to work for 
many years before retirement
- he lived mortgage free in an inherited property (worth approximately £130,000) in 
which he had a half share 
- he had no significant household or any other liabilities recorded 
- his total financial commitments were around £650 each month 
- Mr L thought he might spend around £5,000 on a car and that tax and insurance 
would cost him about £700, but otherwise, he had no big spending plans
- he was looking to invest £70,000 in order to obtain capital growth over the long term 
and willing to invest for at least five years. 
I havent seen anything to make me think that Mr Ls situation affected his ability to make 
financial decisions or that it was unfair and unreasonable for Lloyds to have provided 
investment advice to Mr L. It seems clear that there was a discussion about the circumstances in which Mr L had come into his money and that Mr L was keen to invest as 
he felt this reflected what his late parent would have wanted him to do. And Mr L told the 
advisor he was keen to grow his money and not waste the opportunity his inheritance 
presented. So whilst I appreciate that this was a sad time for Mr L, I dont think that alone is 
a good enough reason for me to uphold this complaint.
And looking at his overall circumstances, I find that Mr L had capacity to absorb investment 
loss and he was in a strong enough financial situation to be able to invest £70,000  which 
the CMC has said it accepts.  
Mr L said he wanted to use some of the capital from his inheritance to provide long term 
capital growth for the future. As far as I can see, his monthly financial needs appeared to be 
comfortably covered by the accessible cash savings he would still have available to draw 
upon if needed. I am not aware of any unaddressed spending requirements and his 
outgoings were likely to be modest as long as he was living mortgage free. There is mention 
of the possibility that the house might be sold, which could mean that Mr L might have had to 
face paying either a mortgage or rent in future. But set against this, Mr L expected to be 
starting paid employment in the foreseeable future, so boosting his finances. All in all, I dont 
think its likely that Mr L wouldve required any income from the investment and Mr Ls 
circumstances and financial situation show that he was in a position to be able to invest up 
to £70,000 for the medium to long term. I am supported in saying this by the fact that he has 
been able to keep the bulk of his investments for many years without ever needing to draw 
upon the capital.  
Lloyds doesnt have a record of any detailed discussion about the risk Mr L was prepared to 
take with his investment. But this isnt enough of a reason for me to conclude that a medium 
risk investment was not suitable for him. 
I've looked carefully at the information Lloyds has provided about its process and the service 
it provided to customers seeking investment advice, along with the information recorded in 
the fact find. I think its likely risk wouldve been discussed as this was part of the advisors 
normal process and information recorded in the fact find suggests that consideration was 
given to the question of Mr Ls attitude to risk. He appears to have made a considered 
decision about investing some of his money at a lower level of risk  had Mr L wanted to 
take a more cautious approach, I think he wouldve understood that investing more, or all, of 
his money at low risk was an option. 
I accept that Mr L was new to investing. But I dont agree that a medium risk investment 
couldnt ever be suitable for an inexperienced investor. This would effectively deprive Mr L of 
the opportunity to make bigger investment gains than he could otherwise achieve, which 
seems unfair to me as Mr L needed to take some investment risk in pursuit of the capital 
growth he said he wanted.  
Whilst Ive been mindful not to make an assessment with the benefit of hindsight, overall, 
having considered everything, I dont find that Mr L was exposed to more risk than he 
wanted to take. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken carefully into account everything Mr L has said, 
including comments the CMC mentioned in response to the investigators opinion and its 
view that Mr L was advised to expose too much of his money to too much risk.
Ive thought carefully about how Mr Ls investment in the Lloyds UK Growth Fund fitted his 
overall investment position  and whether it tipped the balance towards too much exposure 
to risk or meant that his overall risk exposure didnt properly reflect a level of risk that felt 
comfortable for Mr L. But, for all the reasons I have explained more fully above, I dont consider the fact that the 
£50,000 invested into the UK Growth Fund which comprised almost 100% UK equities, was 
inappropriate for Mr L and that the whole of the investment recommended should have 
been at a low level of risk. Lloyds discussed the bond with Mr L making him aware of that 
investment option and whilst Mr L chose to invest only some of his money at that lower 
level of risk, in this way he widened the spread of his overall risk. 
Further, the diversity of funds in the UK Growth Fund further spread his risk. It is not 
disputed that the fund was significantly reliant on UK equities, which can tend towards 
volatility. But Mr L was looking to grow his capital and I think he understood that risk was 
commensurate with growth potential and, in choosing to invest as he did in the UK Growth 
fund, he was balancing his investment objectives against the risk he felt comfortable taking 
with his money. 
I am satisfied that the investment recommendations overall did reasonably reflect Mr Ls risk 
approach.
In order to uphold this complaint I have to fairly be able to say that Lloyds did something 
wrong or acted in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable. For the reasons I have set out 
above, I havent seen enough to show that the recommended investments were too risky for 
Mr L or otherwise unsuitable. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, so far as I can see, the advice broadly 
met Mr Ls needs and investment objectives and was suitable. I appreciate that what I've said here will come as a disappointment to Mr L but I hope that 
setting things out as Ive done helps explain why I've come to this overall conclusion.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman