DRN-1607079
 
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a claim she made on her 
home insurance policy.
Mrs N is represented by Mrs L.
What happened
In March 2019, Mrs Ns flat felt roof blew off during storm winds and rain got into her home, 
causing damage to some upstairs bedrooms. Mrs L got in touch with Ageas to make a claim. 
Ageas agreed to authorise the cost of temporary repairs.
Ageas appointed a loss adjuster to inspect Mrs Ns home. The loss adjuster wasnt able to 
attend until over a week later though and Mrs N had already had the roof repaired by that 
point. So while the adjuster was able to inspect and photograph the internal damage, they 
had to rely on photos of the roof to decide the most likely cause of the damage.
Ageas accepted there had been wind speeds of around 55mph at the time of the damage. 
But the loss adjuster thought the damage was down to wear and tear, rather than caused by 
the storm. They indicated the roof was around 20 years old, so they considered itd reached 
the end of its natural life. Wear and tear is specifically excluded by the policy terms. And Mrs 
N didnt have accidental damage cover. So Ageas said the internal damage wasnt covered 
either.
Mrs L made a complaint about Ageas decision on Mrs Ns behalf. They asked Mr Y, a 
former surveyor to help them. Mr Y thought the damage should be covered, given what hed 
seen in photos of the damage and given the wind speeds. He thought the damage hed seen 
was consistent with storm. And he noticed that the loss adjusters report didnt mention a 
damaged chimney at all. They asked us to look at Mrs Ns complaint.
Our investigator thought Mrs Ns complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Ageas had 
shown the likely age of the roof. He felt itd been reasonable for Mrs N to get the roof 
repaired given the delay in the loss adjuster being able to attend. He considered shed 
mitigated further loss. He noted that the local wind speeds had actually been around 64mph 
on the day of the storm, which he considered was capable of causing structural damage. He 
recommended that Ageas should cover the cost of the repairs.
Ageas disagreed. It said when the claim was first made; it was told the roof was over 40 
years old. It said the photos itd seen showed damp to the timbers under the roof, which 
showed damage had been ongoing over time. It said there was evidence of age-related 
cracking and de-bonding to the remnants of the felt roof. And it said the internal damage had 
also been happening over time. It felt the storm conditions had simply highlighted the poor 
condition of the existing flat roof.
The complaints been passed to me to review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think Ageas has 
treated Mrs N fairly. Ill explain why.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to 
ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. 
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
Ageas accepts there were wind speeds of up to 55mph in Mrs Ns area on the day of the 
claim. So it accepts there were storm winds. Ive also looked at weather reports taken from 
Mrs Ns local weather station. These show on the day of the damage, there were wind 
speeds of up to 64mph, together with rainfall of over 34mm in 24 hours. Even without the 
wind speeds, I think the rainfall alone would be sufficiently intense to be considered as a 
storm.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Damages to roofs and resulting internal water damage is broadly consistent with both wind 
and rainstorm damage. Taking into account the actual wind speed, considerable structural 
damage can often be expected. So I think the damage to Mrs Ns home is consistent with 
storm damage.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
This is a finely balanced case. On the one hand, the loss adjuster puts the damage down to 
wear and tear. On the other, Mrs Ns surveyor believes the type of damage shown in the 
post-loss photos shows it was due to the storm conditions. So Ive carefully considered 
everything to decide whether I think Ageas has shown, on balance, it was fair for it to rely on 
the wear and tear exclusion clause. 
Mrs N had already had the roof repaired before either the adjuster or her surveyor could 
inspect the damage. And without Ageas authority. This inevitably made it harder for either 
expert to assess the condition of the roof, or look at a likely cause of damage. With that said 
though, Mrs L told us the heavy rain had continued and given the delay between the storm 
and the loss adjusters visit, she was worried about more internal damage. So I can entirely 
understand why Mrs N had the roof fixed and appreciate this likely did mitigate some of the 
loss.
The loss adjusters report says the flat roof was likely around 20 years old and so had come 
to the end of its natural life. It said this damage wouldve happened over time. I accept that in 
some cases, damage to flat felt roofs can be down to wear and tear of the materials. And 
that storm conditions may sometimes simply highlight existing damage, rather than be the 
main cause.But I dont think Ive seen enough to find thats the most likely cause of the damage here. 
There doesnt seem to be a definite age recorded for the roof  and in this case, Ageas has 
mentioned the roof being both 20 and 40 years old. I asked for further information about a 
call Ageas mentioned which indicated itd been told the roof was 40 years old. But it had no 
record of this.
Second, the roof doesnt seem to have only failed in patches. The photos suggest the 
majority of the roof has blown off during the high winds. Ageas says the felt had de-bonded 
and there was age-related cracking to the roof. But this wasnt mentioned at all in the loss 
adjusters report. So the investigator asked Ageas for further information about this from the 
loss adjuster and to highlight where on the photos theyd noted this damage. But it didnt 
provide us with this information. It isnt clear to me where this damage is found, how it 
manifested and what impact this had on the roof during the storm.
The report also makes no mention of any damage to the chimney stack, although both Mrs L 
and Mr Y say this was damaged during the storm.  From the photos, it appears there has 
been a collapse of brickwork, together with fallen chimney pots which appears to be part of 
the chimney. Ageas hasnt commented at all on why it believes the chimney damage wasnt 
caused by the storm. Mr Y puts the chimney damage squarely down to the storm winds. And 
I find this persuasive, given the very high wind speeds.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think the loss adjusters report is persuasive. Theres little 
detail in it and very little to explain how any likely wear and tear wouldve impacted on how 
the roof coped with severe storm conditions. Theres no mention of the chimney and theres 
some confusion about the age of the roof. While I may sometimes place significant weight on 
the expert opinions of surveyors and adjusters; I simply dont think theres enough here to 
show me the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage.
Given my above findings, my view is also that the internal damage was down to the storm 
conditions. Ageas says water wouldve been getting in gradually, over time. So we asked 
Ageas whether there wouldve been any sign of the damage in the bedrooms beforehand 
and if so, whether Mrs N wouldve been aware of them. Ageas didnt comment on this point. 
But the loss adjusters report says there was no evidence of rot or decay during the 
inspection. And also that Mrs N couldnt have been aware of any damage. 
So even if I were persuaded that the rain had been getting in over time, I dont think it 
wouldve been fair for Ageas to exclude the internal damage. Especially given the intense 
rainfall that happened that day. The buckets and tubs visible in the photos also suggest a 
heavy volume of water getting in, but the photos dont show mould or staining. On balance, I 
think its most likely the storm and over 34mm of rain recorded during the day of the loss was 
the main cause of the internal damage.
Overall, Im more persuaded by Mr Ys conclusions that the roof and internal damage were 
down to storm. So Im telling Ageas to deal with Mrs Ns claim.
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ns complaint.I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to deal with Mrs Ns claim, subject to the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. Ageas must add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple to any 
settlement it pays.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman