DRN-3878216
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with what Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited did after he made a claim 
on his landlord legal expenses and rent guarantee policy. 
What happened
In February 2022 Mr A made a claim on his policy for damage caused to a property by his 
tenant and unpaid rent. RSA turned down the claim. It said as there was no current address 
for the former tenant recovery proceedings couldnt be pursued against them. So there were 
no reasonable prospects of recovery. And it was Mr A's responsibility to provide information 
to show his claim was covered.  
Our investigator didnt think RSA had acted fairly. She thought it should have obtained and 
relied on a legal opinion from a suitably qualified legal professional prior to turning the claim 
down. It should now obtain such an opinion. 
Mr A agreed though queried whether he should receive compensation for the handling of his 
claim. RSA didnt agree. It said it might not be cost effective to locate a tenant and 
appointing a tracing agent prior to legal proceedings commencing wasnt covered by Mr As 
policy. It didnt think this was something for which a legal opinion was required and said a 
claim handler was able to advise on this. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say RSA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr As policy. I can see that this provides 
cover for costs to pursue the tenant if they have breached any of their obligations under the 
tenancy agreement. And costs to pursue rent arrears which began during the period of 
insurance. Thats what Mr As claim relates to and RSA hasnt disputed an insured event 
under the policy has taken place. 
However, its a condition of cover that a claim has prospects of success. Thats defined in 
the policy as at least a 51% chance of you achieving a favourable outcome. The policy also 
says We may also limit the costs that we pay under the policy for your claim in the following 
circumstances there are insufficient prospects of obtaining recovery of any sums claimed. 
The policy also says It's important to co-operate with us at all times. You must give us and 
the authorised professional all the information and help required.
However, its our long standing approach that the prospects of success of a claim should be 
assessed by a suitably qualified legal professional. And prospects of success include 
whether theres a good chance of recovering the amount outstanding from the other side. I 
dont think this is something its appropriate for a claims handlers to assess. I think RSA 
should have asked for a legal opinion and relied on that if it wanted to turn down the claim on 
this basis of this policy term. 
To put things right it will therefore need to obtain such an opinion as our investigator 
recommended. I also note the term RSA referenced when turning down the claim says if 
there are insufficient prospects of recovery it may limit the costs paid under the policy. It 
doesnt say it wont fund any costs at all.
In this case I think Mr A has shown he has a valid claim. Assessing whether there are 
prospects of recovery is part of the evidence gathering process that panel firms are 
instructed to prepare when a policyholder has demonstrated they have a claim. So Id also 
expect that, as part of their consideration, solicitors should carry out (and RSA should fund) 
reasonable inquiries to establish whether the former tenant can easily be traced. Thats likely 
to include the relatively modest cost of the tracing report that Mr A has referenced. If a 
properly evidenced legal opinion then shows its unlikely to be cost effective to pursue the 
claim RSA would likely be able to rely on that. However, I dont think it acted fairly in turning 
down the claim based on the information currently available to it.   
 
RSA referred to a condition about conduct of the claim and providing information in its final 
response. But I dont think thats a reasonable ground for turning down this claim. I cant see 
it ever asked Mr A for further information about his former tenant. In any case Ive already 
explained this is an issue RSA should have sought a legal opinion on. 
Finally, Ive considered whether any compensation should be paid to Mr A for the handling of 
his claim. I dont think there was any significant delay in this being progressed and RSA 
provided him with an outcome within a reasonable period. It also responded to his complaint 
within the eight weeks allowed for doing so. And while I appreciate it will have caused Mr A 
inconvenience to have had his claim incorrectly turned down, on balance, I think the remedy 
Ive already recommended does enough to put things right here. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited will need to 
obtain a properly written and reasoned legal assessment on the prospects of success 
(including prospects of recovery) of Mr As claim and act in line with that assessment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman