DRN-1326605
 
complaint
Mr G and Ms F say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1989.
background
Mr G and Ms F took out PPI with a further advance on an existing mortgage in 1989. The 
PPI policy included accident, sickness and unemployment cover. The policy wouldve 
provided £100 cover for up to 24 months if Mr G became too ill to work or was made 
redundant.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be not upheld. Mr G and Ms F disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr G and Ms Fs case.
Where there isnt much evidence (as is the case here) or theres contradictory evidence for 
me to consider, I need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to 
say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision 
based on what I think most likely happened. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
I am not upholding Mr G and Ms Fs complaint. I explain why below.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when there are no documents available 
from the time of the sale. Its maybe not surprising that neither party has been able to 
provide any documentation as these events happened over 30 years ago. And whilst I dont 
doubt that Mr G and Ms Fs testimony represents their honest and best recollections of the 
events of 1989, memories can fade over time, and, as Ive noted, this sale happened over 30 
years ago. 
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Nationwide didnt make Mr G and Ms F aware the 
PPI was optional. Considering how long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen 
sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on this point. So having considered all 
the submissions I have received in this case, I think its more likely that Nationwide wouldve 
made Mr G and Ms F aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose to take it, even 
though they may not remember that now, many years later. Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G and Ms F so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr G and Ms F got the information they needed 
to decide if it was right for them. Its possible that the information Nationwide gave Mr G and 
Ms F about PPI wasnt as clear as it couldve been. But considering their circumstances at 
the time of the sale, I dont think that clearer information about the policy would have led Mr 
G and Ms F to make a different decision. 
I say this because Mr G was eligible for the policy and he doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the main exclusions from or limitations to the cover the policy offered.
And having thought about the circumstances of Mr G and Ms F at the time, I think they could 
have found the policy useful. Mr G told us he had no sick pay initially and latterly that he had 
some but provided no details of it. And Mr G and Ms F told us they had no savings or any 
other means to rely on if something went wrong. But this policy wouldve paid out in addition 
to whatever sick pay arrangements Mr G may have had and for up to 24 months if Mr G was 
too ill to work. And it would have provided some financial protection to Mr G in the event he 
lost his job. 
So thinking about this and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan 
secured on your home, I think the policy could have been useful for Mr G and Ms F if 
something went wrong. And so I dont think that better information about the policy would 
have changed the minds of Mr G and Ms F about taking out PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr G and Ms Fs complaint and I make no 
award against Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman