DRN-2373853
The complaint
Mr P2 complains on behalf of his late father Mr P1, that despite holding a Joint and Several
Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA), Redmayne-Bentley LLP (the business) refused to carry out
his instructions to amend Mr P1s investment and sell his shares.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in late October 2020 and explained why I thought this 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
In summary, I said:
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr P2 says, overall Im not
persuaded that the business has behaved unreasonably, such that this complaint should be
upheld. And because of this, Im not going to look into whether or not the proposed redress
is reasonable.
But, before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I recognise
Mr P2s strength of feeling about this matter. Im also very sorry for the recent loss of his
father, I appreciate it must be a difficult time for him and his family.
Mr P2 has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised by him or the business.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr P2 and the business, and reach what
I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I think the business quite rightly apologised for requesting information  regarding Mrs B 
despite Mr P2 having the same authority in law, to act alone on behalf of Mr P1. But this
doesnt mean that the complaint should be upheld.
Im mindful that the address on the LPA document was different to the address Mr P1 was
residing in at the time, so I dont think the business was wrong to be cautious or seek further
information.
I note the business specifically requested a letter from Mr P1s care home (which Mr P2
objects to) but in the circumstances I dont think it was an unreasonable request.
I note the business says that its request is fully in agreement with the guidance of the Joint
Money Laundering Steering Group (JMLSG), which it  like other businesses in similar
circumstances  is obliged to follow under Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance. In
the circumstances Im unable to disagree, or say that this procedure was unique to the
business.
I note that under Annex 1-I of the JMLSG a business can request a letter from a care home
in special cases that cant meet the standard identification requirements, such as Mr P1 who
was living in a care home at the time. So, in the circumstances a letter from the care home
manager or warden, which would suffice as identification for the business to proceed with
Mr P2s request.
In the circumstances, I also think the business, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate
commercial judgement, was entitled to request a letter from the care home signed by the
manager/warden as confirmation of Mr P1s name, date of birth and date of permanent
residency. In light of the above, Im unable to say that the request was unreasonable or
without any regulatory basis.
I also dont think the business was wrong not to suggest a list of documents that it could
accept as an alternative to the letter from the care home, because it had no such list to
reference and no such guidance. Im satisfied the business interpreted the guidance in a way
that it was entitled to, using its reasonable commercial judgement, and its not something
that our organisation would get involved in.
Im mindful that the business only accepted an uncertified copy of the DWP letter as an
exception to the rule in order to accommodate Mr P1 and Mr P2s request, not because it
was from an established list of alternatives that it mightve forgotten to mention. Again, its a
matter for the business, in the legitimate exercise of its reasonable commercial judgement
whether it accepts an uncertified document or not.
That notwithstanding, on the face of the evidence it seems the letter was only sent by Mr P2
to the business as notification of further evidence being sent to our service as part of Mr P1s
complaint, rather than sent to the business as a potential alternative to the care home letter.
I note in the email to the business dated 28 January 2020, Mr P2 said:
Dear Compliance Officer  Further to my complaint, attached is a scanned copy of an
official letter from the Department of Work and Pensions to my father at his care home
address as, perhaps, an alternative to your demand for a letter from the home confirming
among other matters his address. I am copying this email and its attachment to the
Ombudsman to add to the evidence Ive already submitted in pursuing my compliant against
Readmayne & Bentley. (My emphasis added).
Despite the business conceding that it shouldve acknowledged Mr P2s email  which on
balance it shouldve  Mr P2 doesnt appear to be seeking acknowledgement from the
business or acceptance of the letter as an alternative form of identification. In any case, I
dont think the business shortcoming means the complaint should be upheld, or that the
business is responsible for the delays.
Im mindful that after the email exchange between Mr P2 and the business in late May 2019,
the next time it heard from Mr P2 was in late October 2019, asking the business to sell
Mr P1s shares. The email response from Mr P2 would suggest that he was leaving it to the
business to obtain the necessary information and that his duties to carry out his fathers
instructions had been discharged.
I appreciate Mr P2s concerns about providing the letter from Mr P1s care home, but the
business wasnt asking for any financial details, and none was likely to be included in the
specific details that were requested. In any case, Ive seen no evidence to suggest thatthese concerns were relayed to the business.
Under money laundering regulations businesses are obliged to carry out additional checks
confirming the identification of people who have authority to complete a transaction on an
account  in other words people who have authority to move money around such as Mr P2.
So, I dont think the business seeking confirmation of his nationality and NI number was
unreasonable either. Im also aware that if a business fails to abide by such regulations it
can lead to regulatory breach proceedings, and even criminal proceedings, which the
business was clearly trying to avoid.
The business responded but had no further points to add. 
Mr P2 also responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. In short, he made the 
following key points:
Despite his disappointment, there are two aspects of my decision making that struck 
him as being particularly fair:
oFirst, that I was prepared to look at further comments and evidence that might 
persuade me to change my mind. 
oSecondly, the careful and substantiated  in a well-reasoned and authoritative 
way and for the first time in the whole of this case  that a letter from the care 
home was the right thing for the business to request.  
My approach established a benchmark against which the business should be judged, 
and he seeks to persuade me that the business failed to meet this mark. 
There are gaps in my background narrative including the following:
oThe business response dated 5 November 2019 following his email.
oHis response dated 4 December 2019. 
oThe business response dated 10 December 2019. 
The significance of which is that the business didnt consider his additional points 
which is the opposite of what Ive done by giving him an opportunity to respond. 
The business request, although not unreasonable, failed to substantiate its request to 
provide a letter from the care home. Even though he wasnt against providing the 
business with what it needed, it wasnt prepared to quote any third-party source from 
which it derived its authority. Hed like me to amend my description of the complaint 
to include this point.
He was well within his rights to ask for this information, given that the business 
accepts that it was a mistake to ask for the involvement of Mrs B. It wouldnt be right 
for him to simply accept on face value what it says.
Hes unhappy that the business provided its final response before it even provided 
information on its complaints procedures. Surely the point wouldve been to seek 
reconciliation.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of the response from the parties, my conclusion remains as set out 
previously in my provisional decision. I dont uphold this complaint. 
I also dont consider that any new points have been raised, and the key points remain the 
same, and have been considered by me in my provisional decision. In other words, Im 
satisfied that Ive considered all the points that are relevant to my decision. I very much appreciate Mr P2s kind comments. 
Whilst I may not have mentioned every piece of evidence, I can assure Mr P2 that doesnt 
mean Ive not considered it, in light of his complaint. As Ive already explained the purpose of 
my decision isnt to address every single point raised by him or the business. My role is to 
consider the evidence presented by him and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
I appreciate Mr P2 is within his rights to ask the business about where it derives its authority 
from, but in the circumstances a failure to provide an answer that he finds satisfactory 
doesnt mean that the complaint should be upheld. I note Mr P2 says that he wasnt 
specifically told about the Joint Money Laundering Steering Group (JMLSG) until I took the 
trouble to put him right. He says:
Why o why did the business not disclose this to me during the complaints procedure? It is 
clearly just the kind of information I was asking the business for in my letter of 4th 
December
its non-disclosure is neither fair nor reasonable treatment of me.
But in my opinion, in the circumstances a failure to do so doesnt mean the complaint should 
be upheld. 
In an email, dated 25 October 2019, the business said:
I understand your reservations however as previously stated these are MIFID II regulations 
which we are bound by, not Redmayne Bentley's, and cannot proceed with your instructions 
any further until these items of information are received.
In response to this Mr P2 sent an email, also dated 25 October 2019, in which  amongst 
other points  he said: 
My responsibilities to convey my father's instructions have been discharged.
Accordingly, I should be grateful if you would let me have your response under your 
complaints procedure, such that I can put the matter to the FCA for a ruling. 
This suggests that Mr P2 was welcoming a final response and an opportunity to refer his 
complaint to a third-party arbiter. In due course the business issued its final response, dated 
5 November 2019, which I dont think it was wrong to. I note the business said:
I can understand your frustrations with this request, and how some of the information 
requested makes us appear overly fastidious, but I can assure that we would not request this 
information if we didnt need to. The rules and regulations we follow exist to protect our 
clients and by extension us. I also hope you can appreciate that as a business, we would not 
request information from you or put barriers in front of our clients that were unnecessary and 
would ultimately damage us as a business.
In the circumstances, and on balance, Im broadly satisfied that the business explained its 
position and where its authority to request the letter came from. 
Once the business had issued its final response, I dont think it was obliged to go over 
ground it felt it had already been over. Especially in relation Mr P2s response dated 4 
December 2019, raising primarily the same issues, after it had made its final position clear.   In the circumstances I dont think my amending the wording of the primary complaint to 
specifically reflect this is material to the outcome of this complaint either. Its not something I 
propose to do because Ive considered the key issues under the complaint. 
I appreciate (in hindsight) Mr P2 says that had the business provided details of the JMLSG, 
this complaint might not have landed on my desk but Im not sure I agree. Im mindful that 
Mr P2 was still very concerned about disclosing Mr P1s financial details in the letter 
requested by the business. 
Whilst I appreciate where Mr P2 is coming from, Im unable to say the business has done 
anything wrong by providing a final response when it did, giving Mr P2 the option to refer the 
matter to our service  which seems to be in line with what he wanted at the time. 
Notwithstanding the points Mr P2 makes, overall, Im not persuaded that the business has 
behaved unreasonably, such that this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P2 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman