DRN-4179328
The complaint
In summary, Mr B complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc, hasnt helped him with the credit 
card account he has with it. Hes said he has been using the account to its limit, struggled to 
make the monthly payments and has been in persistent debt for many years. 
What happened
Mr B took out a credit card in 2008. In December 2022 he complained to Capital One about 
being provided with the credit card. Capital One didnt uphold the complaint, so he referred 
his concerns to our service. 
Capital One didnt consent to our service looking into Mr Bs concerns, as it didnt think the 
complaint about being provided with the credit hadnt been made in time. One of our 
investigators explained why they thought Mr Bs complaint was one our service could 
consider.
In response Mr B clarified that his concerns predominantly related to the persistent debt he 
had been in for the 6 years prior to him making his complaint. He said he had other 
complaints that had been upheld by our service. 
Capital One said in response that whilst it didnt agree with what the investigator had said, in 
order to facilitate a swift resolution; it would consent to the complaint being considered by 
our service.
As Mr B clarified that he was only concerned with what had happened in the last 6  years, 
the investigator confirmed that they would only look into his concerns about persistent debt, 
for the six years prior to the complaint being made to Capital One. 
The investigator wrote to Mr B and Capital One. They explained why they didnt think Capital 
One had done anything wrong in relation to the persistent debt rules in respect of his 
account.
Capital One didnt respond to the view. But Mr B explained why he didnt agree with what the 
investigator had said. In summary, he explained that he had been in persistent debt for the 
majority of the previous 66 months. He said he was constantly over his credit limit which he 
thought should have set off alarm bells with Capital One. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review his concerns and referred to other complaints that he had won. 
Our investigator then wrote to Mr B again. They addressed in more detail the other 
complaints with this service Mr B had referred to. They explained that each complaint was 
considered on its own merit, and that his other complaints were about irresponsible lending; 
whilst with this complaint, he had asked just for persistent debt to be considered in the 
previous 6  years. So, the original lending in 2008 had not been considered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
For the avoidance of any doubt, I have only considered Mr Bs concerns relating to the 
persistent debt he considers himself to have been in, in respect of the account, for the 6  
years prior to him raising his complaint with Capital One. So, I have not considered whether 
the credit provided to Mr B in 2008 was appropriate or unaffordable for him. 
Mr B complained to Capital One in December 2022. So, Ive considered the status of the 
account from 2016. I can see from the credit card statements that the minimum payments 
were made by direct debit and that the outstanding balance on the account was constantly 
over the credit limit by a relatively small amount each month. 
But it wasnt until March 2018 that specific rules were introduced by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) regarding actions businesses such as Capital One had to take in relation to 
customers such as Mr B, who had been in persistent debt. At the time the rules came into 
force, I think Mr B fell within the definition of persistent debt as he had clearly paid more in 
interest, charges and fees than he had repaid towards the capital he owed in the previous 18 
months prior to the rules coming into force. 
However, firms such as Capital One had a further six months to become fully compliant with 
the new rules. In practice this meant that Capital One had until September 2018 to have 
made the required operational changes and to have written to Mr B in relation to his account. 
In July 2018 I can see that Mr B paid over £2,000 off the outstanding balance on the 
account. This left a balance of just over £500 outstanding on the account. And I am satisfied 
that as Mr B made a such a substantial payment, this is why he didnt receive any persistent 
debt correspondence from Capital One  as it not unreasonably no longer considered him to 
be in persistent debt at that time.  
There were late payment fees on the account. But I can see that Mr B made significant 
payments into the account over and above the minimum payments in late 2018 and at the 
beginning of 2019, which brought the outstanding balance account significantly below the 
credit limit of £2,000. And in the 18 months prior to December 2022 significant payments 
were made into the account which reduced the outstanding balance to below £100. 
So, looking at the management of the account over that period of time, I dont think Capital 
One would necessarily have concluded that Mr B was in financial difficulties. Or that it 
necessarily needed to take further steps to support him in relation to the account. If it had 
provided further support, I would have expected that to involve some form of repayment plan 
to enable Mr B to make inroads into the outstanding balance on the account. And as Ive 
explained, Mr B did make significant payments to pay down the outstanding balance. 
Mr B has also commented on other cases that have been considered by this service. I 
want to make it clear that I consider individual complaints. And outcomes can be 
different to what on the face of it, appear to be similar if not identical complaints. This 
is often down to the nuances and individual circumstances of a particular case. Also, I 
am not bound by what colleagues may have decided on other cases. As explained by our investigator, the other cases Mr B has had with our service relate 
to irresponsible lending. In this case Mr B has clarified that he doesnt want us to 
consider the original credit he was provided with in 2008. So, the issue considered in 
this complaint is different from the other cases that he has referred to our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman