DRN-2944437
The complaint
Ms N (through a representative) has complained that S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at 
Home provided her with loans she couldnt afford to repay. 
  
What happened
Ms N took five instalment loans from LAH between October 2017 and May 2019. A summary 
of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from LAH can be found below:
loan 
numberloan amount received date actual repayment 
dateTerm 
(weeks)
1 £600.00 05/10/2017 09/05/2018 33
2 £600.00 09/05/2018 26/12/2018 33
3 £600.00 08/08/2018 15/05/2019 45
4 £1,000.00 15/05/2019 01/04/2020 46
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Ns complaint. She didnt uphold her complaint about 
loan 1. But, she did think loans 2  4 shouldnt have been provided because in her view, Ms 
N had to use a significant portion of her income in order to service her loans which made the 
payments unsustainable. 
Ms N appears to have agreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
LAH disagreed and initially said, it had recently received a decision with similar 
circumstances, but that case wasnt upheld. Later on, LAH asked about threshold levels 
which determine whether a loan is unsustainable. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Ms N could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms N. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
LAH was required to establish whether Ms N could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all mean for Ms Ns complaint.
I would start by saying, that each case is considered on its own individual merits. There may 
be a point in each when this service may determine that a consumer is required to spend a 
significant portion of their income towards the loan. As Ive said each case is considered on 
its own merits and there are a number of other factors that are considered, but not limited to 
for example the repayment term or amount. 
Looking at the individual circumstances of this case, I agree with the adjudicators outcome 
for broadly the same reasons. Ive explained my reasons for partly uphold the complaint 
below.
Loan 1
The adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ns complaint about this loan, and Ms N doesnt appear to 
disagree with the outcome. So, I wont comment further on this loan , or the level of 
individual checks LAH completed before approving it , as I dont think there is any ongoing 
disagreement about it. 
Loans 2  4 
The adjudicator upheld Ms Ns complaint about these loans, because in her view, Ms N was 
committed to paying LAH a significant portion of her income and that led to the loans being 
unsustainable for her. Taking into account the individual circumstances of the case, I agree 
with the adjudicator and Ive explained why below. 
When loan 2 was approved, Ms N seems to have declared a drop in weekly income 
compared to loan 1. Her income had dropped from around £275 per week to £176 per week (LAH appears to have verified her income for loan 2). And, her weekly expenditure had also 
increased compared to loan 1. For loan 2, LAH was aware, based on what Ms N declared, 
that her income was being squeezed, she wasnt earning as much but also had increased 
outgoings. 
So LAH, knew that with a smaller disposable weekly income Ms N was committed was 
paying £30 per week  each week for 33 weeks. This, according to LAH only left Ms N 
around £11 per week in non-disposable income after the loan repayment was taken into 
account. 
In my view, given what LAH knew about Ms N there was a significant risk that she wasnt 
going to be able to fully meet her existing commitments without having to borrow again. 
Which has led me to conclude that Ms N wouldnt be able to sustainably make her weekly 
repayments for this loan and any subsequent loans. 
Loan 3, overlapped with loan 2. The effect of this was that Ms N was committed to spending 
even more of her income each week  nearly a quarter of it. In order to service these two 
loans and Ms N was expected to do this for a significant period of time.  This time, Ms Ns 
income had increased slightly to £222 per week, and she had declared outgoings of £114, a 
drop compared to loan 2  even though loan 2 remained outstanding and needed to be paid.
For the same reasons as for loan 2, given the amount of time these loans would overlap and 
Ms N was committed to spending nearly a quarter of her weekly income to service these 
loans, is in my view not sustainable, and LAH shouldnt have provided this loan. 
For loan 4, while the weekly repayments dropped to a similar level as Ms N was repaying 
when she was given loan 2.  The fact that Ms N had returned for a further loan, on the same 
day that the previous loan had been repaid, for her largest loan to date and to be repaid over 
the longest term. In my view, this reinforces the fact that this loan wasnt sustainable for Ms 
N for the same reasons that Ive outlined above.
So, looking at what has happened, Im hoping Ms Ns complaint about loans 2  4. Ive 
outlined below what LAH has to do to put things right.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LAH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided lending from loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms N may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms N in a compliant way at this time.Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms N would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LAHs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
LAH should:
refund all interest and charges Ms N paid on loans 2  4
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about loans 2 - 4 from Ms Ns credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH
must give Ms N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Ns complaint in part.
 
S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home should put things right as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman