DRN-3197111
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited, trading as Audi Financial Services (VFS) when he requested a voluntary termination 
of his hire purchase agreement. He also complains about the charges he incurred when the 
vehicle was returned. 
What happened
In March 2017 Mr W acquired a used car financed through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. The car was due to be returned in March 2020. In January 2020 Mr W advised 
VWSF that on medical grounds he would not be able to drive the car for six months and 
requested to return the car. Mr W said he was advised to clear the remaining three monthly 
payments or continue paying until March and then call back to arrange for the vehicle to be 
collected.
Mr W continued paying and in March he contacted VWFS again to arrange collection of the 
car. He was advised that no further payments would be taken and he should keep trying to 
get the car collected. Mr W recorded the car as off road with the regulatory authority. Mr W 
said he was advised to keep the vehicle stored off road until it would could be collected. 
In May Mr W received a letter from VWFS advising him that he was in arrears and a late 
payment marker had been added to his credit file. The balloon payment of over £13,000 was 
attempted from his account. Mr W complained to VWFS. Eventually the default was removed 
and no further payment was due. Mr W said he eventually had to store the car for 111 days 
before it was collected. He said he was recovering from a medical condition and the situation 
with the car was adding to his stress. Mr W complained further. He also complained about 
the end of contract refurbishment and mileage charges. 
In July 2020 the car was collected.
In its final response VWFS said the hand back request had not been successfully submitted 
to its admin team to process. It said as the car had been returned the balloon payment 
wasnt due. It offered Mr W £100 as a gesture of good will which Mr W declined. VWFS also 
said that all the charges applied remained due as all fell outside of the third-party fair wear 
and tear guidelines. 
Mr W brought his complaint to this service. He said he had been 100% compliant with his 
agreement and made every payment on time. Mr W said he wanted a formal apology from 
VWFS and to be compensated at £100 per day for storing and maintaining the vehicle for 
111 days. He also said he was out of pocket by the chargeable phone calls he had had to 
make. Mr W said this situation had affected his recovery physically and mentally. 
When the complaint came to our service VWFS increased its offer of compensation to £250 
which Mr W also declined. Our investigator thought that £250 was fair and reasonable for the 
stress caused by the delays to collection of the car and the cost of phone calls made to 
VWFS. She didnt think VWFS had made an error in relation to the end of contract charges. 
Mr W didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr W but having done so I believe the offer 
made by VWFS is fair and reasonable for the following reasons:
Collection delay:
VWFS has accepted that Mr Ws original request to hand back the vehicle wasnt 
actioned. It told this service that from the lack of further notes in the file, and the fact 
the request was never viewed by the relevant admin team, it appeared the request 
was closed and not delegated to the appropriate team. It went on to say that as Mr 
Ws request was not actioned correctly his agreement continued as originally 
scheduled and the final balloon payment was called for by direct debit on 28 April 
2020. It apologised for this in its final response.
Mr W has said the car was stored off road at his friends house. He accepted a 
charge of £100 per day was excessive, so he asked for £10 per day. VWFS said as 
no actual costs were incurred it didnt accept the £10 per day. It told this service that 
it simply required the vehicle to be safe and secure and didnt request special 
storage. 
Mr W hasnt provided this service with any evidence that he was charged for storing 
the car so I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask VWFS to 
compensate Mr W for storage.
VWFS also said that at the time it was working with reduced capacity at a time of 
increased customer contact. It said it did its best to communicate effectively with its 
customers and provide a normal service level, but it acknowledged the quality of its 
service was not to the level it would expect or aims to deliver. Im satisfied VWFS has 
acknowledged and apologised for the delay and that following the demand for the 
balloon payment it amended Mr Ws credit file. 
VWFS initially offered £100 as a good will gesture. When the complaint came to this 
service VWFS increased that offer to £250. I can see from the system notes that 
VWFS chased the collection agents several times during June and July in good faith 
and I consider that £250 is fair and reasonable under the circumstances. 
 
End of contract charges:
Ive read Mr Ws hire purchase agreement. On page one it says the maximum annual 
mileage is £5,000, and the total maximum mileage is £47,418. After this Mr W would 
be liable for excess mileage charges. Mr W has signed the agreement further down 
the same page. 
Mr W said it was never explained to him at the time of the lease that the mileage was 
capped at £5,000 per year. He said he was given the impression by the dealer it was 
10,000.
In its response to this service VWFS said the annual mileage allowance on an 
agreement forms a central part of the contract negotiations and affects the monthly 
rental figure and final balloon figure. It said a higher allowance may have resulted in 
higher monthly rentals or a different balloon figure. 
VWFS said it wasnt at the point of sale but it was confident  Mr W was given the 
opportunity to consider his agreement, understood the terms of the agreement and 
was willing to be bound by them. Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or disputed I must make a decision based on 
the balance of probability, that is, what I believe most likely happened. In this case Mr 
W said the mileage wasnt explained yet VWFS is confident it was. While I am not 
disputing Mr Ws version of events, without evidence he was misled in some way Im 
persuaded he was likely aware of the mileage terms by the fact he signed the 
agreement on the same page they were laid out.
VWFS uses the British Vehicle Leasing & Rental Association (BVRLA) guidelines for 
assessing damage to vehicles. Ive looked at the guidelines, photos of the car and 
inspection report and I consider that the scuffs and dents to the body work and 
wheels and the cut on the tyre fall outside of fair wear and tear guidelines. So I dont 
think it is unreasonable for VWFS to charge for these.
My final decision
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Financial Services has already 
made an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi 
Financial Services should pay Mr W £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman