DRN-2723350
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage application Mr and Mrs D made to Nationwide Building 
Society. Nationwide originally issued a decision-in-principle for a mortgage of up to 89% loan 
to value (LTV), which would have required Mr and Mrs D to put in a deposit of £40,000. 
However, it later told them the maximum LTV was 85%, so they had to find a bigger deposit 
for their purchase. 
Nationwide apologised and paid £250 compensation; Mr and Mrs D referred their complaint 
to us, at the same time saying theyd not received the £250. Our investigator established 
Nationwide had paid the money to the wrong account. It has since paid them afresh, and 
weve received confirmation Mr and Mrs D have received the compensation.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round. In doing that, I dont take instruction from either party to the complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D are understandably unhappy and frustrated at being offered a smaller 
mortgage than theyd been led to believe theyd get. But the decision in principle wasnt a 
commitment to lend, and it didnt entitle Mr and Mrs D to borrow the higher amount. The 
lending decision Nationwide eventually made, once it had under-written the application in 
full, was a fair reflection of its lending policy; its not open to me to change that.
But Nationwide probably could have told Mr and Mrs D this sooner than it did. In that 
context, the £250 Nationwide offered (and Mr and Mrs D have now received) is reasonable 
compensation for the impact on them of having had their expectations wrongly raised. 
Im aware Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with how the complaint was handled; a point not 
helped by the compensation being paid to a wrong account. Our rules also set out the 
matters that we can look at as being; regulated activities, payment services, lending money, 
paying money by plastic card, and ancillary banking services. In addition, we can consider 
complaints about ancillary activities carried on in connection with the above.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator 
requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough to make it a regulated activity 
within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of activities set out in the legislation 
from which we derive our powers.
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, for 
example, if were upholding the underlying complaint that a consumer believes was 
mis-handled. Here, however, I havent upheld the underlying complaint, which means I dont 
have the power to consider Mr and Mrs Ds concerns about the ancillary issue; how 
Nationwide handled the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman