DRN-2621177
The complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies. The first 
policy was sold in 1998 and the second policy was sold in 2000. Mrs B says Lloyds Bank 
PLC mis-sold those policies.
I know that on both occasions, PPI was sold to Mrs B in a branch of Cheltenham & 
Gloucester. But Ill refer mainly to Lloyds in this decision as thats the business responsible 
for answering the complaint. 
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated all of that information 
here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below. 
As I said above, both policies were sold to Mrs B during a face to face meeting in a branch. I 
cant know what was said during those meetings. So to help me decide whats likely to have 
happened, Ive looked at what Mrs B remembers about the sales. And Ive also considered 
the documentary and electronic evidence Lloyds has provided me with. 
 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Lloyds made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take 
out the PPI if she didnt want it.  I can see that on both occasions, Mrs B had to complete a 
separate PPI application. So I think shed have known the PPI was a separate financial 
product to her mortgage. And if she didnt want the cover, I think it would have been clear 
she didnt have to complete the application forms. 
As both policies were sold in a Lloyds branch, Ive treated both sales as advised sales. So 
on both occasions, Lloyds had to check that the PPI was right for Mrs B. To help me decide 
whether the policies were suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And 
Ive also considered what we know about Mrs Bs circumstances at the point of each sale. 
I can see that for both policies, Mrs Bs mortgage repayments would have been repaid for up 
to 12 months for each month she was off sick or if she was made redundant. 
I can see that for 1998, Mrs B told us she couldnt recall her sick pay entitlement, but that 
she didnt have any other means with which to meet her mortgage repayments if she was 
out of work. I think its unlikely she would have had more than 12 months full sick pay in 
1998. For 2000, Mrs B said she was entitled to statutory sick pay. So the PPI would have 
lasted for a lot longer than her sick pay and I can see how PPI could have been helpful to 
Mrs B at what would no doubt have been a difficult time for her if she was out of work. I must 
stress that this borrowing was secured on Mrs Bs home and it could have been at risk if she 
did fall behind with her repayments. 
Ive next checked whether any of the policys exclusions or limitations meant the PPI wasnt 
right for her circumstances. I can see Mrs B told us she had broken a bone in 1978, and she 
had a gynaecological operation in 1989. I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs B was still 
affected by either of those conditions when the PPI was sold some considerable time later. 
So I cant reasonably say these diagnoses rendered the PPI policies unsuitable. 
A number of submissions were made by those representing Mrs B about what were 
perceived as limitations in the policies around back and mental health conditions. I have 
considered both policy documents and am satisfied there were no such additional 
restrictions. 
I havent seen anything unusual about Mrs Bs employment circumstances that would have 
stopped her from being able to make a successful claim if she needed to. So, all in all, I think 
the Lloyds PPI recommendation was most likely suitable. 
Even so, Lloyds still had to give Mrs B enough information about the policies so she could 
decide for herself whether they were a good fit for her needs. I accept its possible the 
information Lloyds gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive 
found that she chose to take it out, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. As Ive set 
out above, the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs B, nor too dissimilar to what its 
most likely she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was most likely 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it could have been useful if 
something went wrong with her job. Because of this I dont think Mrs B would have declined 
the cover had Lloyds given her more or better information about it. 
Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman