DRN-2245214
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the service received from Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited (Red Sands) when making a claim under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
A claim was made to Red Sands for treatment carried out to Mr Gs Dog. Mr G was asked to 
confirm some details. Red Sands emailed the vet on 27 December 2019 to ask for some 
more information to be able to consider the claim.
Mr G contacted Red Sands for an update on 7 January 2020 as he hadnt heard anything 
about his claim. He was told the claim was on hold as Red Sands were awaiting additional 
information from the vet, but it hadnt been received. They said theyd sent Mr G a letter to 
explain this on 2 January 2020. Mr G said he hadnt received it.
Mr G spoke to the vet and Red Sands a number of times. He explained that the vet said they 
provided the information to Red Sands on 30 December 2019. But Red Sands said they 
hadnt received it. 
Ultimately following Mr Gs involvement, the vet sent the information needed again and the 
claim was settled the following day. Mr G complained to Red Sands about the service hed 
received.
Red Sands first offered Mr G £20 to resolve the complaint, rather than carrying out a full 
investigation. But as Mr G didnt wish to accept this, Red Sands carried out a full 
investigation into his complaint, but didnt uphold it.
Mr G was unhappy with this and approached this service. 
Our investigator looked into things. She asked for additional information from the vet, which 
showed they did send the information to Red Sands on 30 December 2019. She confirmed 
with Red Sands that despite it not being in the final response, the £20 was still available, and 
she felt this was reasonable compensation. So she didnt ask them to increase this.
She also said she couldnt investigate the handling of the complaint, including the final 
response not making reference to the £20 offered, as complaint handling is outside the remit 
of this service.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not directing Red Sands to pay any more than the £20 theyve already 
offered. Ill explain why.
I can see that after the claim was first made, Red Sands contacted Mr Gs vet for further 
information on 27 December 2019. Red Sands says they didnt receive a response so a 
letter was sent to Mr G on 2 January 2020 explaining that they hadnt heard from the vet, 
and also what was needed in order to consider the claim. They also mentioned the claim 
would be on hold until they received this information.
Mr G has said he didnt receive the letter. But this was addressed to the same address 
Red Sands held (and the same as the address he has given this service). And Red Sands 
has shown this was printed. So Im not able to hold them responsible if this wasnt received 
by Mr G.
Mr G contacted Red Sands on 7 January 2020 to chase the claim. Several conversations 
took place, and Mr G confirmed the vet had said they sent the information on 
30 December 2019. Red Sands maintained they didnt receive it. And they said the first time 
they received the information was 7 January 2020, following several conversations Mr G had 
with Red Sands (and his vet) when the information was sent again. The claim was prioritised 
and settled the following day.
Our investigator contacted the vet to ask for a copy of the email and this was provided, 
showing the vet had in fact responded on 30 December 2019. So Im satisfied that 
Red Sands did in fact receive this. Albeit they may not have been able to locate it during the 
conversations they had with Mr G, but it appears it was sent direct to the claims assessor, 
rather than the general mailbox which was outlined in the original email. But had Red Sands 
dealt with it when it was originally received, then the claim could have processed at that 
time. 
I can appreciate how frustrating this would be for Mr G when his vet says it was sent, and 
Red Sands said it hadnt been received, when in fact it had been sent to Red Sands, albeit 
to a slightly different email address.
However, before this was known, Red Sands offered Mr G £20 as a gesture, but didnt 
accept it was at fault. And whilst its now been shown that the vet did send the email as Mr G 
and his vet said, this doesnt mean Im going to say Red Sands need to pay more 
compensation than the £20 they have already offered. Ill explain why.
Red Sands received the information again on 7 January 2020, and it recognised how 
unhappy Mr G was and processed the claim by the following day. This was ahead of its 
normal timescales of five to seven working days. 
If Red Sands had recognised receipt of the information on 30 December 2019 and 
progressed the claim within five to seven working days from that time, the claim was still 
settled within this period overall. So although it was processed later than it should have 
been, it didnt impact on when it was settled overall, because it was prioritised and dealt with 
sooner than the normal five to seven days from 7 January 2020.
I do appreciate that it would have been frustrating for Mr G to need to chase this with the vet, 
when in fact Red Sands had already received the information, but I think the £20 
compensation they have already offered is reasonable. So Im not going to say they should 
pay more than this.I also note Mr G is unhappy with the handling of his complaint by Red Sands. This includes 
the content of the final response letter from Red Sands, which didnt mention the £20 
offered. But as our investigator explained to Mr G, complaint handling isnt a regulated 
activity. So it doesnt fall within my remit to consider specifically how Red Sands handled 
Mr Gs complaint, or the content of the final response letter.
My final decision
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited has already made an offer to pay £20 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited should pay £20.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman