The complaint
Miss J is unhappy as she believes she has paid more than she owed on her flexible loan 
held with HSBC UK Bank Plc. But HSBC does not agree and will not return the money she 
believes she has overpaid. 
What happened
Miss J took out a flexible loan with HSBC in 2008 and the credit limit was set at £1,600. The 
terms of the loan allowed Miss J to borrow up to that limit when she chose  with a minimum 
monthly repayment required when there was a balance outstanding.
Miss J continued using the account for a number of years. In April 2019 she complained to 
HSBC, saying that she calculated she had overpaid the account and wanted it to be closed 
and the amount she had overpaid refunded to her. She mentioned at that time she was 
experiencing some financial difficulties so the refund and ending the monthly repayments 
would be of assistance to her.
HSBC said Miss Js calculations had not accounted for the continued additional borrowing 
shed made and the debit interest on the sums outstanding. So, it didnt agree that the 
account had been overpaid or that the outstanding balance was wrong. HSBC said it was 
sorry to hear Miss J was experiencing difficulties and suggested she contact its dedicated 
department who may be able to help.
Unhappy with this response Miss J asked our service to consider her complaint.
An investigator looked into the complaint. He felt that the balance outstanding on Miss Js 
account had been calculated correctly and the account had not been overpaid. He noted the 
confusion seemed to be around Miss Js calculations not taking into account the additional 
borrowing shed taken, after making repayments to the loan. He also felt that HSBC had 
acted fairly by suggesting she contact its dedicated department to discuss the financial 
difficulties she was experiencing. So, he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Miss J disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint as she remained 
of the opinion that shed paid off the borrowing in full and made overpayments that should be 
refunded. As Miss J did not agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-1694320When Miss J first contacted HSBC about her loan to request a refund of the overpayments, 
in April 2019, she explained she was in financial difficulty and was struggling to make the 
repayments. HSBC suggested she contact its relevant dedicated department to discuss 
matters. I think this was fair as it wouldve needed to understand more about her 
circumstances to understand what help it could offer and ensure it met its responsibilities 
when dealing with a customer in financial difficulty. I havent considered any further 
discussions between HSBC and Miss J about her financial difficulties, or proposals offered / 
actions taken, since that time. This is because these actions did not form part of, and took 
place after the events of, the complaint we were asked to investigate.
Turning to the loan itself  Miss J has said that she has paid back more than the amount she 
initially borrowed under the loan, which is why she thinks she has overpaid and is due a 
refund. But this account isnt a conventional loan  where a set amount is borrowed and then 
paid back with interest over a set term. It is a flexible loan and works in a similar way to a 
credit card. A limit is set on how much can be borrowed and the account holder is free to 
borrow up to that amount at any time. If they pay back some or all of the money borrowed, 
they can borrow again  up to the credit limit  but they are then required to also pay this 
further borrowing back. And there is no end date for repayment of the loan. So, Miss J did 
not simply owe £1,600 plus interest under the loan. She was also required to pay back any 
additional borrowing.
HSBC has sent us copies of some of Miss Js loan statements. These show that Miss J was 
making regular payments to the loan. But they also show she then regularly borrowed more 
money back, in line with the terms of the agreement. This amount also needed to be repaid.
Having looked at the statements provided I think the account position, as set out by HSBC, 
is correct. Repayments have been correctly applied to the outstanding balance, but I think 
withdrawals and interest have also been applied correctly. I think HSBC is correct that there 
is still an amount owing under the agreement and that balance appears to have been 
calculated correctly.
Taking all of this into account, while the repayments Miss J has made towards the account 
do likely exceed £1,600, I dont think she has overpaid the loan. This is because she 
borrowed additional funds and owed more than just the original credit limit. So, I think HSBC 
is correct that there is an outstanding balance and that she is not due a refund of the 
amounts paid, as the loan has not been paid off in full. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman