DRN-4307857
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled their claim 
on their home emergency insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have home emergency insurance thats underwritten by IPA. In August 2022 
they made a claim after experiencing issues with their boiler. After some difficulty, a visit by 
an engineer was arranged. 
However the engineer was unable to fix the boiler and Mr and Mrs C say he left it in a worse 
position than it was before the visit. They subsequently got their own engineer out who 
successfully diagnosed the issue and fixed the boiler.
Unhappy with the service they received, Mr and Mrs C made a complaint. They were 
unhappy with the information theyd been given on the phone by the administrator of the 
policy, as it had incorrectly told them that they didnt have the right cover for anything other 
than emergency call outs. They also said that the engineer who attended broke their boiler 
further and failed to diagnose the problem. They felt IPA had insinuated they had made a 
fraudulent claim and thought its engineer had been purposefully dishonest. They made a 
complaint. 
As the issues they raised related to the actions of the administrator of the policy and IPA, the 
complaints were responded to by each of the relevant businesses.
IPA didnt uphold the complaint. It said its engineer had to disconnect the boiler because it 
wasnt safe which is why it was left in a worse position. But it said as the boiler was working 
and they had hot water, it was reasonable for them to do so. 
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with this response and brought their complaint to this service.
After the matter came to us IPA agreed to reimburse Mr and Mrs C for the amount it cost to 
fix their boiler.
Our investigator considered this and thought it was a fair offer. However she also thought it 
should pay £150 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
by not getting this right in the first place.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept this outcome. They said they thought IPAs engineer had 
purposefully acted dishonestly. They said he had accused them of purposefully tampering 
with the boiler which amounted to an accusation of fraud and was unfounded. They asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C have provided a lot of information and commentary about this complaint, 
including since it has come to me to decide. In this decision, I wont respond to every point 
theyve made, instead Ill focus on the issues I consider key to the outcome. However I want 
to reassure them that Ive read and considered everything theyve said in doing so. 
Firstly, I want to make clear that there are two different organisations involved in the issues 
in this complaint  IPA and the policy administrator. Each of these is responsible for different 
things. IPA are the underwriters of the policy so they are responsible for making decisions on 
claims and instructing agents to deal with claims. The complaint Im looking at here is about 
IPA, so I will only consider how it was handled by IPA  essentially the engineers diagnosis 
and actions. I know that other issues raised about the administration of the insurance are 
also important to Mr and Mrs C. And these are being dealt with under a second complaint 
about the separate business. So I wont comment about those issues in this decision.
The crux of the complaint against IPA is the fact that its engineer didnt do anything to help 
fix the problem, leaving Mr and Mrs C in a worse position when he left. 
When looking at complaints, this service first considers whether the business in question got 
something wrong and where we find it has, we look to put things right. We do this by seeking 
to put its customer back in the position they would have been in if they hadnt got something 
wrong. Its important to note that we dont have the power to punish businesses, so any 
remedies are to put right whats gone wrong, rather than to sanction the business or its 
agents. 
Here, I agree IPA provided a poor service and didnt provide a suitable fix or diagnosis of the 
problem with Mr and Mrs Cs boiler. In these circumstances Id expect IPA to have got this 
right when its first engineer visited Mr and Mrs Cs home. Or at least go back and fix the 
problem after. However, this didnt happen here. Instead Mr and Mrs C had to instruct their 
own engineer to resolve the issues.
IPA has now offered to reimburse Mr and Mrs C for the repairs they had carried out, and this 
is what I would have recommended it had done if it hadnt offered. As this puts them in the 
position they would have been in if IPA had got things right in the first place  with a working 
boiler and not out of pocket. 
However I can also see that the matter has caused Mr and Mrs C some distress and 
inconvenience. They had to call the support line a number of times to complain about the 
ongoing issues with the boiler. And were left feeling as if theyd been accused of fraud. They 
also felt the engineer acted dishonestly and didnt take due care when he was visiting. This 
would have been distressing. Because of this, I also agree with our investigator that IPA 
should pay £150 compensation to apologise for the distress and inconvenience its caused 
by the poor handling of the claim.
I note Mr and Mrs C are particularly distressed by the fact they feel theyve been accused of 
fraud. However I want to reassure them that IPA has not stated to this service, or at any 
point in the claim, that it believes the claim to have been fraudulent. So I hope this offers 
some reassurance. Mr and Mrs C have also said they consider the actions of the engineer to be fraudulent as 
they feel he was purposefully dishonest. It isnt for this service to decide on such a matter  
thats better suited to the courts. Its our role to resolve disputes by ensuring the customer is 
put back into a position they were in when things go wrong. So it isnt our role to determine 
why the problem was misdiagnosed, just to make sure things are put right after. And Im 
satisfied that the action taken by IPA and £150 compensation is a fair resolution in order to 
do this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and direct Inter Partner 
Assistance SA to:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs C for the repairs to their boiler, if its not done so already. 
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date they paid for the repairs until 
settlement is paid, if not already done so.
Pay Mr and Mrs C £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman