DRN-3919762
The complaint
This complaints about an interest-only mortgage Mr J holds with Topaz Finance Limited 
trading as Heliodor Mortgages. The mortgage was taken out in late 2005/early 2006 with a 
different lender, but is now held by Heliodor. Mr Js unhappy that Heliodor hasnt allowed him 
access to the lowest interest rates available over the years, leaving him a mortgage prisoner. 
He would like redress for the extra interest he says he has overpaid as a result. 
Mr J, who is represented here by Ms H, also thinks the mortgage was mis-sold, and is 
unhappy that hes been prevented from switching the mortgage to a capital repayment basis. 
Ms H says the situation, including being hounded about arrears, has caused Mr J great 
stress over the prospect he might lose his home. To put things right, Ms H says his debt 
should be erased.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so Ill merely summarise them 
here.
Mr J applied for the mortgage in late 2005, on the advice and recommendation of a third 
party mortgage broker. The original lender was a business Ill call N. Interest was initially 
charged on a fixed rate which ran until 1 January 2011. At that point the mortgage reverted 
to Ns standard variable rate (SVR) for a period of 25 months, and thereafter to Ns 
discounted variable rate (DVR). 
In the wake of the financial crisis of 2008/09, N effectively stopped trading, and became what 
is known as a closed lender. That is, a lender that stopes taking new business or offering 
new deals, but just manages its residual portfolio on existing terms. 
In 2014, Mr J had a discussion with N about switching the mortgage to capital repayment, 
but nothing came of that. Meanwhile, over time, Ns portfolio of existing mortgages was 
gradually sold off, in tranches, to other lenders. Mr Js mortgage was part of a tranche 
acquired by Heliodor in 2019.
In 2021, assisted by Ms H, Mr J started his complaint. Heliodor didnt uphold the complaint, 
and when it came to us, our investigator took the view that our power to consider the 
complaint was restricted to events since August 2015. When he looked at what had 
happened since then, he wasnt persuaded Heliodor had done anything wrong. Ms H, on 
Mr Js behalf, asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
In a decision issued in December 2022, I confirmed that we could only consider events since 
August 2015. We gave Mr J until the end of January 2023 to make any final comments he 
wished me to taken into account when finalising my decision on the merits of the complaint. 
Weve now heard from Ms H with her closing thoughts; theyve been added to the file and 
Ive taken them into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint.
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides
instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
We revisit jurisdiction at every stage of our case-handling process. Ive considered Ms Hs 
further comments on jurisdiction in her email of 22 January 2023, but they dont change the 
decision I reached in December 2022. I explained in that decision why I consider Mr J, or 
someone else on his behalf, could have started the complaint sooner than he did. As for 
Ms Hs reference to informal complaints, our rules specify that to stop the clock running on 
the time limits, there has to be written acknowledgement or some other written record of a 
complaint having been received.
Ms H has reiterated her view that the mortgage was mis-sold at the outset. The sale of the 
mortgage wasnt carried out by Heliodor, or by the original lender N. It was conducted by the 
third party broker mortgage broker that recommended Mr J take the mortgage out. The sale 
of the mortgage isnt part of my remit here. If Ms H wishes to pursue a separate complaint 
about the sale against the broker, the investigator can offer her information on how to go 
about doing that.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill address the point about Mr Js interest rate first. Its worth pointing out that no borrower is 
entitled to a lower rate; lenders have to consider context and individual circumstances in all 
cases. They also have their individual lending criteria and appetite for risk. Its not the role of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service to say what those criteria should be, or to second-guess 
lenders judgement on risk. Its a matter for a borrower to choose whether or not to apply for 
a new rate, and make the application if they want one  including making sure they know 
when to do so.
The complication in Mr Js case is that even before his initial fixed rate ended in 2011, his 
original lender N had become a closed lender and stopped offering new deals to its existing 
borrowers. The circumstances in which that happened were extraordinary and, to some 
degree, unforeseeable. The change in Ns status was directed by the FCA is its capacity as 
regulator of financial services.
So, by the time Mr Js first fixed rate came to an end, there was no scope for N to offer him a 
new rate, assuming he had asked for one. All that could happen, and what did happen, is 
that the mortgage reverted to Ns SVR, and then subsequently to its DVR, in accordance 
with the contract. That position has continued since the mortgage was transferred to 
Heliodor. Heliodor doesnt offer new deals either and, to be clear, it doesnt have to. Whether 
it does or not is a matter for its own commercial judgement; whether it should or not is a 
matter for the FCA. In either case, its not matter that I can decide.
All any lender can do in this situation is minimise any barriers there might be - that are within 
its control - to borrowers moving to a different lender that offers better rates. Im satisfied 
Heliodor and N before it have done that. Ive noted what Ms H has said about why Mr J has 
struggled, and might continue to in future, to move to another lender. Its frustrating, and he has my sympathy, but thats not down to anything Heliodor (or N before) has done or failed 
to do.
Ms H has pointed out that other lenders that took over parts of Ns portfolio do offer new 
rates; the inference is that N should have transferred Mr Js mortgage to one of those 
lenders rather than Heliodor. But that wasnt part of the original complaint that was referred 
to this service. In any event, it doesnt fall within our remit to consider, as the wholesale 
transfer of mortgage portfolios from lender to lender isnt a regulated activity covered by our 
jurisdiction.
That brings me to the issues of arrears. Lenders have a duty to treat all customers fairly, but 
especially those in financial difficulties. Where borrowers are in arrears, lenders should show 
patience and forbearance, and try to agree payment arrangements that are affordable and 
wont causer the borrow more problems that theyre already facing. Balanced against that is 
the lenders expectation that money lent in good faith will be repaid and, as a last resort, its 
right to rely on its security to ensure that happens. 
It seems to me here that Mr J has done all that could reasonably be expected of him, by 
keeping Heliodor full apprised of his circumstances, the reasons behind the arrears, and his 
plans for addressing them. Heliodor, in turn, has done what Id expect it to do, in that it has 
showed patience and forbearance towards someone whose financial difficulties are probably 
long-term. But it isnt required to do so indefinitely. Ultimately, Heliodor is owed the money 
outstanding on the mortgage, and the contract allows it the right of recovery through its 
security, albeit as I have said that must always be viewed as a last resort where every other 
avenue has been exhausted. 
What Heliodor must also do, not least because regulation requires it to, is to ensure Mr J is 
aware of the potential consequences in the event hes unable to keep up with his payments. 
The inevitable consequence of that is that Mr J will from time to time receive 
communications containing messages that are far from welcome, and Ive no doubt will 
cause him some distress. But I cant reasonably criticise Heliodor for doing what FCA 
requires it to do.
The process of assisting a borrower whose mortgage is in arrears is an ongoing process. So 
its likely that Heliodor and Mr J will have further dialogue in future as his situation evolves. If 
thats the case, then to be clear, nothing I say here obliges Heliodor to agree to any specific 
arrangement in future, and nothing of that nature should be inferred. Any future decisions, 
and any actions arising from them, will still be subject to Heliodors assessment of the wider 
situation at the relevant time.
One last point I will make regarding both the rate Mr J has been charged and his treatment 
whilst in arrears, is that the discount element of the DVR is conditional upon the mortgage 
being paid in full and on time. Neither Heliodor nor N before it has sought to remove the 
discount, even though the strict application of the account terms would require that to 
happen.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against Topaz Finance Limited 
trading as Heliodor Mortgages. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023. Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman