DRN-1787180
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1999
alongside a mortgage. Mr W and Miss H say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
mis-sold them the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr W and Miss Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr W and Miss H say they felt they had no option but to agree to the cover in order to obtain 
the mortgage, and they needed the mortgage at the time. Halifax says that PPI was never a 
condition of the lending, and that they chose to take out the policy in Mr Ws name only. Ive 
considered what both parties have said, and Ive looked at the evidence available to come to 
a decision on what I think is more likely to have happened. 
  
Mr W and Miss Hs mortgage commenced in August 1999, Ive seen the mortgage 
application form which was completed and signed in July 1999. Ive also seen a postal PPI 
application form which was completed and signed in November 1999, after the mortgage 
had commenced. I understand Mr W and Miss Hs position is that the first three months of 
the policy were offered for free, so the first payment was taken in December 1999.   
I accept it is possible that PPI was discussed at the time the mortgage was being arranged, 
but I dont have a recording or any notes from the meetings held  so its difficult for me to 
comment on what may or may not have been said. So, I must rely on the evidence available. 
The PPI application form which was completed in November 1999 is a postal application, 
meaning Mr W and Miss H completed this in their own space and time, and without any 
further involvement from Halifax at the time. There is nothing in this form which suggests the 
PPI was compulsory and the declaration at the bottom reads I wish to apply for cover under 
the Mortgage Repayments Insurance scheme. So, this suggests the policy was an optional 
extra. 
Without any stronger evidence to suggest that Mr W and Miss H werent given the choice 
about the policy, I think its likely that Halifax offered the policy to Mr W and Miss H and they 
chose to take it out in Mr Ws name only  although I can understand if they cant remember 
this now.
Mr W and Miss H are adamant that they were advised by Halifax to take this policy out. 
Halifax says this wasnt an advised sale. But making a finding on this point is not crucial to 
the outcome because, had Halifax recommended the policy, I think it wouldve been a
suitable recommendation to have made for the reasons I set out below. As a result, I havent 
made a finding on this point, but I have considered Mr W and Miss Hs circumstances as I 
would in the case of an advised sale. 
In the case of an advised sale Halifax wouldve been required to take reasonable steps to 
check that the policy was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, it doesnt look like Mr W (as the 
insured party) was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they 
seem to have had a need for the cover. I say this because Mr W told us he wasnt entitled to 
any sick pay from his employer at the time and they had up to 3 months worth of savings. 
The PPI wouldve covered them for up to 24 months in the event Mr W was unable to work 
and wouldve paid out in addition to their savings. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr W and Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover.
Mr W and Miss H have also asked me to consider whether they are due a refund of any of 
the commission they paid on their premiums. In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued some rules about how businesses should 
deal with complaints about the non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So, to put that right, the FCA said that
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still
running on 6 April 2008.
Halifax has given me information that shows Mr W and Miss Hs mortgage didnt fit into
these dates. So, based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship 
provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply here.
So, overall I am not upholding this complaint and so Halifax doesnt need to refund any of 
the premiums Mr W and Miss H paid for the PPI they had with their mortgage.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont think this policy was mis-sold. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman