DRN-2900652
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited has not fairly compensated her 
for the mis-sale of payment protection insurance attached to a catalogue account.
What happened
Mrs T complained to Shop Direct about the sale of PPI on various catalogue shopping 
accounts she had held.
Unhappy with Shop Directs response to her complaint Mrs T  asked this service to step in.
Following this services involvement, Shop Direct upheld Mrs Ts complaint and made her an 
offer in August 2020.
Shop Direct said that Mrs T had been sold three PPI policies. The first was added to her 
account in November 1994 and was cancelled in November 2007. A second PPI policy was 
added in November 2007 and was cancelled in June 2010. A third policy was sold in 
December 2010 and was cancelled in December 2010.
Although the name of Mrs Ts shopping account changed over the years, Shop Direct has 
shown us evidence that it was the same account throughout.
Shop Direct offered Mrs T a total of £1,023.35. This was made up of a return of PPI 
premiums (£473.57) and a refund of £108.00 administration charges incurred because PPI 
had been added to the account. Shop Direct also paid Mrs T £441.78 compensatory interest 
(net of tax) calculated at 8% simple for the time shed been out of pocket.
The letter told Mrs T she had the right to refer her complaint to this service if she remained 
unhappy, but the letter went on to state that as the original sale took place before                 
5 November 2004 this service may not be able to consider the complaint.
Mrs T declined the offer as she thought it didnt represent all the premiums she had paid 
over time.
An adjudicator from this service thought the offer from Shop Direct was fair. The adjudicator 
added that this service could not consider the first sale in 1994 or the compensation that 
resulted from it. Thats because it took place before Shop Direct were regulated and 
therefore the sale of this policy does not come within this services jurisdiction. However this 
service could consider the complaint about the second and third PPI policies sold in 
November 2007 and December 2010. 
Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at Shop Directs offer and I think it is fair compensation for the sale of 
the PPI policies. Ill explain why.
As the adjudicator explained I can only make a formal finding on the compensation that 
resulted from the sale of the two later PPI policies.
Where a PPI  has been mis-sold wed expect a business to, as far as is possible, return the 
consumer to the position theyd have been in if the PPI had not been sold.
Shop Direct has full statement data about Mrs Ts accounts from April 2001 onward. I can 
see that for the policies sold in 2007 and 2010 Shop Direct has refunded all the PPI 
premiums added to Mrs Ts account. And it has refunded charges that were incurred 
because PPI was present on the account. Shop Direct has also calculated compensatory 
interest at 8% simple for the time Mrs T was out of pocket. And I consider that a fair rate of 
interest.
So I am satisfied that Shop Direct has fairly compensated Mrs T for the sale of the PPI 
policies in 2007 and 2010.
I cant make a formal decision on the sale of the policy in 1994 of the compensation that 
stems from it. But I have looked at the offer as part of the overall offer made by Shop Direct.
From April 2001 Shop Direct has calculated the compensation using data it has from actual 
statements and records.
But prior to April 2001 it has estimated the premiums paid by Mrs T as it no longer holds 
detailed records. This isnt surprising or unusual, as it isnt reasonable to expect businesses 
to retain detailed records indefinitely.
Mrs T also has been unable to supply any old statements dating from before April 2001.
So Shop Direct had to estimate the premiums paid by Mrs T from 1994 to 2001. To do this it 
made assumptions based on historical data and Mrs Ts use of the account after 2001. 
And in the absence of any other detailed information this service would usually find that a fair 
approach to take. 
So taking everything into account I am satisfied that Shop Direct has fairly compensated    
Mrs T for the sale of the PPI policiesMy final decision
My final decision is that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited has fairly compensated    
Mrs T for the sale of the PPI policies.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman