DRN-3681693
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a loan 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out the PPI around the same time as arranging the secured loan in 2000. 
Although it was a joint loan, the PPI was set up just to cover Mr P for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs P say they were pressured into buying the PPI. They thought they had already 
successfully arranged the loan without PPI but were subsequently harassed into agreeing to 
it. So although they were politely declining it, they were repeatedly asked the same 
questions by Nationwide about the insurance and about reconsidering their position. In 
particular, Mrs P became very upset and eventually the harassment broke her to the point 
where she told Mr P to take the PPI.
The available evidence suggests that Mr and Mrs P had a meeting in a branch to arrange 
the loan. The paperwork from that meeting shows that they declined PPI. That seems to 
demonstrate that the policy was presented as optional and Mr and Mrs P decided not to buy 
it at that time. There is then a record of a phone call between Nationwide and Mr P on 4 
September 2000 where it is noted that Mr P now wanted to take out cover and that new 
documents would be sent out that day. Mr P has said that this customer contact record is not 
on headed paper. However, I have no reason to doubt its authenticity. Besides, this phone 
note fits in with the timeline of events as Mr and Mrs P did subsequently receive and sign 
new loan agreement forms that included PPI. On balance, based on the available evidence, 
Im satisfied that the sale of the policy was conducted over the phone rather than during a 
meeting.
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs P have provided their genuine recollection of events. 
However, the sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if their memories 
have faded. Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs P probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing 
that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Its possible that this was an advised sale. That means that, in recommending the policy to 
Mr and Mrs P, Nationwide needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of 
their circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
Mr P would have received sick pay from his employer. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr P would have received full pay for. 
Mr and Mrs P say they could have asked their children and wider family for financial help. 
But having the policy would have avoided the need to ask other people to make your loan 
repayments for you. Overall, I think that Mr and Mrs P had a need for the policy and could 
have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Nationwide also had to provide sufficient information for Mr and Mrs P to make an informed 
choice about whether or not the PPI was right for them. 
I think they would have known something about the policy  that it would cover their loan 
repayments if Mr P was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment, because 
I doubt theyd have taken it out without knowing anything at all about it. Its possible that 
Nationwide didnt provide as much information as it should have, particularly about the things 
that it didnt cover. But Mr P wasnt affected by any of those things. For example he did not 
have a pre-existing medical condition that might have been excluded under the policy terms.  
As I consider that Mr and Mrs P had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused them to change their minds.
This means that Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
P. But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to them because:
When the policy was sold, Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs P 
about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell them, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that the PPI was not mis-sold  Nationwide Building Society does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs P any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already paid this so I do not require it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman