DRN-3345583
The complaint
Mrs L complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (AvantCredit) lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner.
What happened
Mrs L was given a loan by AvantCredit in August 2016. She borrowed £3,200 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 24 monthly instalments. Mrs L actually repaid the loan earlier than planned, 
in July 2017.
Mrs Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
results of AvantCredits checks should have led the lender to conclude that it was unlikely 
that Mrs L would be able to afford to repay her borrowing in a sustainable manner. So she 
didnt think the loan should have been agreed and asked AvantCredit to pay Mrs L some 
compensation.
AvantCredit didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mrs L accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mrs Ls complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time AvantCredit gave this loan to Mrs L required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what 
she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs L. 
In practice this meant that AvantCredit had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Mrs L undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mrs L. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether AvantCredit did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mrs L.
AvantCredit gathered some information from Mrs L before it agreed the loan. It asked her for 
details of her income, and her normal expenditure. And it checked her credit file to see how 
much she was repaying to other lenders.
Mrs L was entering into a significant commitment with AvantCredit. She would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of two years. So I think it was right that AvantCredit wanted 
to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mrs Ls financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks Ive described above 
were sufficient to achieve that aim (subject to the caveat I mention below)  I think that 
AvantCredits checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.
I think I should first comment on the information that AvantCredit recorded about Mrs Ls 
expenditure. It doesnt seem that AvantCredit asked Mrs L to provide a breakdown of the 
constituent parts of her expenditure. So that would naturally leave the lender with some 
difficulty in validating what Mrs L had declared, particularly when trying to assess whether 
she had accurately declared her other credit commitments.
But I dont think I need to consider that point any further. I think the results of the credit 
check that AvantCredit performed on Mrs L should have led the lender to reasonably 
conclude that she was facing serious problems managing her money.
The credit check showed that Mrs L had more than ten active credit accounts, in the form of 
loans, a mortgage, credit cards, a bank overdraft, and mail order accounts. Her outstanding 
revolving credit accounts showed a total combined balance of almost £11,000. And the 
majority of the accounts were close to their agreed credit limits. And the same was true of 
the overdraft on Mrs Ls bank account  that had a balance of £1,673, just under the agreed 
limit of £1,700.In addition to the above accounts, Mrs Ls credit file showed she was responsible for a 
mortgage with monthly repayments of over £1,000. I accept it is possible, as AvantCredit 
thinks, that Mrs Ls husband also contributed to those mortgage payments. But it is also a 
possibility that Mrs L was responsible for meeting them alone  with her husband being 
responsible for other household expenditure, or even additional credit in his own name. So 
I dont think it was reasonable for AvantCredit to discount some of that mortgage payment 
without additional evidence.
I think the extensive use that Mrs L was making of unsecured credit, and that her accounts 
were generally close to their credit limits, was a clear indication of the problems she was 
facing managing her money. It might well be the case that she was meeting her monthly 
commitments when they fell due. But I dont think that necessarily means that Mrs L was 
meeting her monthly repayments in a sustainable manner. I think it far more likely that Mrs L 
was reliant on other borrowing to help make ends meet from month to month.
Mrs L told AvantCredit that she wanted to use its loan for home improvements. So it doesnt 
seem that she was intending to use the loan to consolidate any of her other debts and so 
reduce her monthly outgoings. Instead it seems those outgoings would have remained, and 
been supplemented by the additional loan repayments Mrs L would need to make. I dont 
think it was reasonable for AvantCredit to conclude that would be a sustainable situation, 
and particularly given the length of the loan agreement.
So I dont think it was reasonable for AvantCredit to conclude that Mrs L would be able to 
afford her repayments on the loan in a sustainable manner. It follows that I dont think 
AvantCredit should have agreed to lend to Mrs L, and so it needs to pay her some 
compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think AvantCredit should have agreed to lend to Mrs L in August 2016. So 
AvantCredit should;
refund all the interest and charges Mrs L paid on the loan 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ls credit file in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
must give Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ls complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman