DRN-2376020
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has dealt with his motor 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr Ks car was involved in a collision with a third party vehicle in November 2019. The third 
party accepted liability and the claim was settled in May 2020. 
Mr K was unhappy with the time it took to resolve the claim and said AXA had failed to 
respond to his correspondence, that its call waiting times were too long, and that it had 
unnecessarily delayed obtaining CCTV footage of the incident, all of which had caused Mr K 
to worry about the progress of his claim. Mr K complained to AXA.
In December 2019 AXA acknowledged some of the errors it had made in dealing with Mr Ks 
claim and offered him £250 in recognition of the trouble and upset it had caused. However, 
while the claim was ongoing, Mr K remained unhappy with the level of service he was 
receiving from AXA and so he referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and said AXA had continued to provide a poor 
level of service to Mr K and that it should pay him an additional £100 for the trouble and 
upset it had caused following its payment of £250 compensation.
AXA said, in response, that delays had been considered as part of the £250 award it had 
previously made, but that it hadnt been given the opportunity to address Mr Ks complaint 
about failing to reply to emails Mr K sent between February and April 2020. AXA said these 
complaint points should be dealt with under a new case.
Because AXA didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, the complaint has now 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and will require AXA to pay the 
additional compensation recommended by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Between 29 January 2020 and 21 February 2020 Mr K sent AXA five emails and received no 
response until 26 February 2020. Mr K then sent a further six emails to AXA between 26 
February 2020 and 29 April 2020, to which he received no reply. An AXA representative 
from its claims team did however phone Mr K on 22 April 2020. But Ive generally found the 
level of service AXA provided to Mr K during this time to have fallen below what wed usually 
expect.
These facts arent in dispute. AXA only disagrees with the level of compensation 
recommended, and our consideration of these issues as part of this complaint alongside 
those issues it says it dealt with in its final response letter and for which it paid Mr K £250 
compensation. 
However, Mr K says he never received a final response letter and AXA hasnt been able to 
provide us with a complete copy. The version AXA says it sent Mr K in June 2020 is 
incomplete and doesnt detail Mr Ks complaint or AXAs full response to it. But even if AXA 
had issued a final response letter in June 2020, Mr K had made it aware he was unhappy 
with the lack of communication in an email he sent in April 2020. So these issues should 
have and could have been addressed in a final response sent around that time. However, 
Im satisfied that the issue of missed emails was not addressed and the offer of £250 was 
not in part for those delays. This is because the compensation was paid to Mr K in 
December 2019, so it could not have taken into account emails AXA failed to respond to 
between February and April 2020.
Ive considered carefully what AXA has said about it not been given the opportunity to 
address Mr Ks complaint regarding its failure to respond to those emails. AXA thinks these 
complaint points should be dealt with under a new case as these events took place after it 
made an award for £250 to settle Mr Ks other complaint points, regarding long call waiting 
times and delays in obtaining CCTV footage.
Whilst I appreciate AXAs point of view here, I dont agree that it hasnt had a fair chance to 
respond to all of Mr Ks concerns  including those about not responding to his emails. I say 
this because Mr K made AXA aware of this aspect of the complaint when he wrote to it in 
April 2020. And Mr Ks complaint form to this service is dated 14 August 2020. In it, he 
mentions that AXA ignored his emails between February and April 2020. So AXA was aware 
of this complaint point as early as April 2020  and it had a further opportunity to respond to 
this point once it received Mr Ks complaint form which we sent to AXA on 14 August 2020. I 
therefore consider AXA has had enough time to respond to this point and that its fair for this 
aspect of the complaint to be dealt with alongside the issues AXA has already compensated 
Mr K for.
I have considered what level of compensation would be appropriate given the time and effort 
Mr K took to communicate with AXA about his claim and chase it for responses  and the 
impact it wouldve had on Mr K for his emails about a car accident which wasnt his fault (a 
naturally distressing event) to be ignored. Mr K was understandably concerned about the 
progress of his claim and the lack of contact from AXA only added to his worry over a 
prolonged period of time. So I think our investigators recommendation that AXA pay Mr K an 
additional £100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
For the trouble and upset it has caused, AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay Mr K £100 in 
addition to the £250 it has already paid to him for other aspects of his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to put 
things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman