DRN-3831638
The complaint
Ms W says Santander UK Plc has not adequately answered her questions after she found 
out it had left a footprint on her credit file when she had not applied for a Santander product 
or service.  
What happened
Ms W says a notification from one of the credit reference agencies alerted her that a credit 
search had been completed for a third-party with a similar name by Santander, and an 
identification - generic check entry had been left on her file. She wants confirmation that 
she has not been a victim of identity fraud, a better explanation as to why Santander cannot 
provide more details about the circumstances of the search; and details of what Santander 
has done to ensure mistakes like this do not recur, if it was an error on the banks part. 
Santander explained it was unable to determine exactly what had happened but it was likely 
due to a mistaken financial association. This was why it had requested the search to be 
deleted and the financial association to be removed once it was brought to its attention. It 
has now offered Ms W £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its likely error 
caused. It apologised that it had not previously addressed Ms Ws concerns  if only to 
confirm that it is unable to conclusively say exactly why the search appeared on her file.
Our investigator said the banks response to Ms Ws complaint was fair and reasonable. She 
understood that Ms W was looking for more detail as to why and how the mistaken 
association occurred, but she said the bank was unable to provide more information about 
the cause of the error. And it would not be appropriate for the bank to give information about 
the third party or their application. She said there was no indication that Ms W had been a 
victim of identity fraud. And she felt the banks offer of £75 compensation was fair and noted 
that it had already corrected Ms Ws credit file.
Unhappy with this assessment Ms W asked for an ombudsmans review. She said until she 
received a better explanation as to why Santander cannot provide more details about the 
circumstances of the search and details of what Santander has done to ensure mistakes like 
this do not recur, if it was an error on the banks part, her complaint would not be resolved. 
And she still had concerns she has been the victim of identity fraud.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as some of it is here) I have reached my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, based on what I think is most 
likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I think Santanders settlement offer is fair. Ill explain why.
I understand Ms W is looking for more detail, but Santander has confirmed that is has 
provided as much of an explanation as it can. And whilst this is frustrating for Ms W I think 
Santander has been open and fair in explaining that it is unable to give her more definitive 
answers. Unfortunately, in some cases we simply cannot know with certainty what 
happened. 
In answer to Ms Ws question about what Santander has done to reduce the risk of this issue 
recurring, it has said a mistaken financial association was the most likely cause. As it has 
removed this the issue should not recur. I have seen no evidence that she has been the 
victim of identity fraud  this is not to say that I do not understand why this would be a worry 
for her in the circumstances. I agree however with the banks position that it would not be 
right to share any information about the third party and their application.
I have then thought about the banks offer of £75 compensation. I think this is fair and 
reasonable given the duration and realised impact of the issue. 
Putting things right
I will leave it with Ms W to decide if she wishes to accept the banks offer. She can contact it 
directly, or our investigator, with her payment details if she decides to.
My final decision
I find Santander UK Plcs settlement offer to be fair. Santander UK Plc should pay Ms W £75 
in full and final settlement - if she opts to accept this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman