DRN-3328389
The complaint
Miss L and Mr W complain about NHBCs handling of a claim under their building warranty 
policy and about NHBCs decision to decline that claim.
What happened
The background to this case is well known to both NHBC and Miss L and Mr W. Ill 
summarise the key events below, but theres no intention to provide a detailed history.
Miss L and Mr W bought their current home in late 2017. Its covered by an NHBC buildings 
warranty policy (Buildmark), which began in 2012 when the construction of the house was 
completed.
The warranty covers damage to the home (or danger to its inhabitants) caused by defects in 
the original build. In brief, defects are failures to build in line with the relevant regulations 
and/or guidance.
Miss L and Mr W made a claim under the warranty in September 2019. They listed 23 issues 
with the house that they thought were defects, as defined in the policy terms.
NHBC carried out an inspection at the property in November 2019. This considered five of 
the 23 listed issues. And it said the claim should be rejected on all five of those issues.
In short, the report said some of the issues related to damage which wasnt caused by any 
defect in the build and some of the issues needed repairs which were below the policys 
minimum claim value. It also appeared to say some defects hadnt led to any damage.
Miss L and Mr W werent happy with that outcome and made a complaint to NHBC. Suffice 
to say there was then a prolonged correspondence between NHBC and Miss L and Mr W 
relating to the claim and whether certain items should or should not be covered under the 
warranty.
When NHBC didnt uphold their complaint, Miss L and Mr W brought it to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and thought NHBC were entitled to decline the claim under the terms of the 
policy. But she thought there had been unnecessary delays in the handling of the claim and 
NHBC should pay £500 in compensation to Miss L and Mr W for the trouble and upset theyd 
experienced.
Miss L and Mr W disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with the view taken by our investigator, I issued a provisional decision. 
This allowed both NHBC and Miss L and Mr W an opportunity to provide further information 
or evidence and/or comment on my thinking before I make my final decision, which is this 
services last word on the matter. 
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of issues in this complaint and Ill try to deal with them all below. 
First though, its important to set out what the NHBC Buildmark warranty covers.
Essentially, there are five sections to the policy. The first two deal with problems 
which might arise during the build itself and issues which might become apparent in 
the first two years after completion (when the policyholder is required to ask the 
developer to deal with any defects in the build). Section 5 specifically covers 
contamination issues (theres no issue relating to contamination in this case).
Its Sections 3 and 4 which are relevant in this case. Section 3 covers years 3-10 of 
the warranty. In brief, during that period, NHBC undertake to carry out or pay for 
repairs to damage to the home caused by defects in the building of certain parts of 
the home.
Section 4 applies only where NHBC took responsibility for building control whilst the 
property was being built  which they did in this case. Again, in brief, NHBC will carry 
out or pay for repairs where any failure to meet the relevant building regulations in 
the original build means that:
 there is a present or imminent danger to the physical health and safety of 
the occupants of your Home
To be absolutely clear, both Sections 3 and 4 apply in this case, because NHBC 
were responsible for building control at the property which Miss L and Mr W 
subsequently bought.
NHBCs handling of the claim
When NHBC received the claim in September 2019, they arranged an inspection, 
which took place in a reasonably timely fashion at the start of November 2019.
For reasons which arent immediately clear to me, the inspection looked at only 
around five or six of the 23 issues outlined in the claim made by Miss L and Mr W. 
NHBC appear to have told Miss L and Mr W that these were the issues NHBC might 
be able to help with under Section 3 of the warranty.
NHBC appear not to have considered that Section 4 might apply in relation to some 
of the issues raised by Miss L and Mr W. Ill come to the outstanding claim issues, at 
least as I see them, later in this decision (below). But suffice to say, some of the 
issues which NHBC failed to consider in the response to Miss L and Mr W and/or in 
the inspection would appear potentially to be covered under Section 4 due to a 
present or imminent danger to the occupants of the home.
NHBC appear not to have provided any explanation to Miss L and Mr W  at least not 
at this point  as to why the other issues in their claim werent considered or covered 
by the warranty.
Mr W responded to NHBC to say he wasnt happy that the remaining issues werent 
covered and to offer some comments on the issues which were considered at the 
inspection. NHBC then engaged in a debate about the limited issues covered by the inspection but appear to have ignored Mr Ws dissatisfaction about the remaining 17 
or 18 issues. They later insisted that Miss L and Mr W hadnt made a complaint at 
this time. And made them re-state the complaint on at least one further occasion.
The copy of the November inspection report which NHBC sent to us contains 
detailed comment on two of the issues the inspector was meant to consider. These 
related to damage to the porch canopy  which the inspector deemed to be otherwise 
covered, but below the policys minimum claim value  and damp in the garage wall 
at the property  the inspector said there was no defect in the build.
The remaining sections of the report, such as they are, are entirely blank. Theres no 
detailed comment at all on issues relating to the loft insulation or a heat detector in 
the kitchen. Both of which were issues NHBC had told Miss L and Mr W they might 
be able to help with under Section 3 of the warranty.
The correspondence between NHBC and Miss L and Mr W is difficult to follow 
because NHBC appear to give several different  and often contradictory - reasons 
as to why they feel the issues raised in the claim arent covered. NHBC insist at 
several points that Miss L and Mr W havent raised certain issues with them (or made 
complaints) when they clearly have. And, as our investigator noted, there are delays 
and confusion at times which appear entirely avoidable.
It was around two years after the claim was made  and after our intervention - that 
NHBC finally accepted that the construction of the roof at the property fails to meet 
the relevant building regulations and guidance. And so constitutes a present or 
imminent danger to the occupants of the house and is covered under Section 4 of the 
warranty.
To be frank, that might have been obvious as and when the claim was made, if 
NHBC had read the claim properly, considered the application of Section 4 and either 
carried out an inspection and/or taken proper account of the information provided to 
them by Miss L and Mr W.
In summary, this claim has been handled very poorly almost from start to finish. 
Miss L and Mr W have had to persevere and persist long beyond what ought to be 
expected in order to have their claim  and their questions and complaints about the 
outcome of their claim - properly considered. Its now well over two years since the 
claim was made and theres still no adequate resolution to some of the issues 
originally raised by Miss L and Mr W.
The remaining claim issues
It took some time to get there, but the claim has now been narrowed down to four 
remaining issues. One of these  relating to strapping in the roof, as mentioned 
above  has been resolved. In essence, NHBC have accepted that the issue is 
covered and that they are responsible for carrying out or paying for the necessary 
repairs / corrections. All that remains is for NHBC to agree with Miss L and Mr W how 
and when the repairs are carried out or what cash settlement might be offered.
Miss L and Mr W have now accepted that many of the 23 issues they raised in their 
claim arent covered by the warranty. Mainly because weve explained to them why 
thats the case. In some cases, the minimum claim value isnt met. In others, there is 
no defect. And in others there may be defect but theres no subsequent damage to 
the property.As I say, I dont think this was explained to Miss L and Mr W in NHBCs response to 
their claim. But I am grateful to them for confirming in correspondence with us that 
the remaining issues (in addition to the roof strapping), as far as they are concerned, 
are limited to: damp and damage to their garage wall; headroom on the stairs 
between their upper floors (the house has three floors); and fire safety, particularly in 
terms of the potential speed of spread of any fire in the two upper floors. Ill deal with 
these in turn below.
The garage wall
The garage at the property is separate from the house. The ground at the front of the 
house slopes downwards towards one side of the garage, which is made of brick 
(single skin).
Miss L and Mr W reported that the garage wall closest to the house was persistently 
very damp below a certain level. This corresponded to the height of a retaining wall, 
built next to the garage wall - presumably in part to stop the weight of the soil 
collapsing the garage wall.
The influx of water through the garage wall appears to have been severe during 
rainfall. And the mortar in the garage wall has been impacted and is now crumbling in 
places.
Miss L and Mr W were told at first that the garage wasnt covered by the warranty  
which isnt correct. Theyve been told garages shouldnt be expected to be entirely 
waterproof and that rainfall swept by the wind onto a single skin wall might be 
expected to permeate.
NHBC have declined the claim and their current position is to maintain that stance. In 
their view, there is no requirement to take any measures against damp with a single 
skin garage wall beyond a damp proof course at or just above the level of the ground 
outside.
NHBC believe the water ingress in the garage is caused by rainwater impacting the 
outside of the garage wall above the level of the retaining wall. And they point out 
that the retaining wall appears to have had a damp proof membrane up to the 
(bottom) level of a path built adjacent to the top of the retaining wall.
I dont think the level of water ingress shown in the photographs provided by Miss L 
and Mr W can be entirely down to rain falling on the outside of the garage wall above 
the level of the retaining wall, as NHBC suggest. Those photographs in essence 
show the inside of the garage wall absolutely sodden and running with water below 
the level of the retaining wall outside.
It seems likely to me that either the damp proof membrane in the retaining wall was 
incorrectly installed or it was inadequate to the task. This may have been because 
the path next to the adjacent wall was at the foot of the remaining slope from the 
house. It would have essentially acted as a conduit for rainwater during heavy rain.
If water did flow onto the path and essentially collect there or run down the inside 
edge of the path, it would be in contact with the higher levels of the retaining wall 
(including the coping stones). At that height, all parts of the retaining wall are 
effectively porous (the membrane ends just below the paving slabs used in the path) 
 and they are adjacent to the garage wall.That may explain how such an amount of water was impacting  and coming through 
 Miss L and Mr Ws garage wall. Leaving aside whether that explanation is correct, it 
remains the case that whatever the builders did outside the garage wall to protect it 
from excessive water ingress failed. That much is evident from the photographs 
provided by Mr W.
NHBC have kindly provided a copy of what they believe to be the relevant guidance 
for us. This says:
A damp-proof course should be provided at a level at least 150mm above the 
level of adjacent ground.
This dpc will protect the wall from rising ground moisture.
Garage walls constructed from a single leaf of masonry, such as brickwork or 
blockwork approximately 100mm thick, will not be impervious to wind driven 
rain and consequently could become damp.
In areas of severe exposure, single leaf walls may require a high standard of 
workmanship and possibly surface treatment to prevent an unacceptable level 
of rain penetration.
Where a garage is integral or attached, the design should ensure that 
dampness cannot enter the dwelling.
Where a wall is below ground level, precautions should be taken to prevent 
the entry of ground water by:
 tanking
 use of dpcs and dpms
 drainage of ground behind the wall.
That guidance appears to me to suggest that, in order to meet the broader NHBC 
requirements  that elements of a building meet their intended purpose and are 
lasting  garage walls in areas of severe exposure (Im assuming NHBC believe this 
garage to be severely exposed given their explanation of how the water was getting 
into the garage) will require a high standard of workmanship and possibly surface 
treatment.
The guidance also suggests that whilst there may be some water penetration, there 
is an unacceptable level of rain penetration. Id say the levels of water ingress in the 
garage evidenced in Mr Ws photographs would be regarded by most observers as 
unacceptable. If not, one would have to be standing in several inches of water 
before the penetration became unacceptable.
In summary, its my view that any normal language reading of the standards and 
guidance quoted by NHBC themselves would conclude that theres a requirement on 
the builder to take steps to prevent excessive ingress of water (whether rainwater or 
ground water) into a garage, even where its single skin construction (where some 
degree of damp might be experienced from time to time).
The evidence suggests that in this particular case, the builders did not take the 
appropriate steps to prevent an unacceptable degree of water penetration into the 
garage  whether that was rainwater, ground water, or both.When NHBC declined the claim relating to the garage wall  and maintained that 
position when Miss L and Mr W later questioned it  Miss L and Mr W had works 
carried out to remedy the situation. Essentially, they moved the retaining wall holding 
back the ground outside the garage closer to the house and away from the garage 
wall. It appears that the works have solved the problem  which suggests to me that 
the water penetration in the garage was due to the nature of the previous 
construction outside the garage wall.
That means NHBC cant now carry out any further inspections of the hard 
landscaping outside the garage as originally built. Nor can they carry out any 
remedial works themselves, using their own suppliers at a favourable cost to NHBC. 
However, its entirely understandable that Miss L and Mr W had that work carried out, 
in light of NHBCs continued refusal to accept the claim  essentially I dont think 
theyd had much effective choice but to get the work done themselves.
Headroom on the stairs
Mr W has provided us with a set of measurements (NHBC didnt take measurements 
during their inspection) to show that theres a bulkhead on the ceiling of the flight of 
stairs between the first and second floors with 1.9 metres head clearance. Mr W says 
building regulations require a clearance of 2 metres  for good reason  and that 
taller inhabitants of the home are in danger of banging their head when using the 
stairs. He says NHBC should accept responsibility for repairs / corrections to provide 
the required clearance under Section 4 of his policy.
NHBC have questioned whether the measurements are accurate. I have no reason 
at all to doubt Mr Ws measurements. Ive also seen photographs of Mr W standing 
on the stairs at that point, which appear to show that there certainly isnt 2 metres of 
clearance.
At first, NHBC told Miss L and Mr W that the regulations werent prescriptive, as long 
as the basic requirement was met in another acceptable way. I take that to be true. 
They said there was guidance which allowed a smaller clearance. It appears they 
were quoting guidance relating to attic conversions or developments within existing 
buildings. Miss L and Mr Ws home was newly built in 2012. More recently NHBC 
have again suggested to us that 1.9 metres clearance is acceptable because thats 
allowed in loft conversions.
In response to our questions, NHBC again said the regulations werent prescriptive. 
And they told us that guidance underpinning the regulations suggests that the height 
of staircases can be measured in two different ways. In essence, perpendicular head 
clearance at 2 metres or more meets the requirement, but so does 1.5 metres of 
clearance when a measurement is taken at right angles to the pitch line of the stairs. 
NHBC assume that in this case, there is 1.5 metres clearance on the measurement 
from pitch line to ceiling.
NHBC helpfully provided us with copies of the guidance. The broad requirement is 
that stairs should be safe for people moving between floors. Mr W says he isnt safe 
when using the stairs and hes around average height.
More importantly perhaps, the guidance NHBC quoted to us says the following:
. headroom over stairs and landings should not be less than 2000 mm, and 
there should be a clearance of at least 1500 mmIts clear that the guidance takes headroom to be the perpendicular measurement 
from stair to ceiling and, when it refers to clearance it means the diagonal 
measurement from the stair pitch line to the ceiling. As far as Im concerned, the 
operative word in the guidance quoted above is and  headroom should not be less 
than 2000 mm and clearance should be at least 1500 mm. Thats not an or, its an 
and.
So, Im satisfied that the headroom on Miss L and Mr Ws stairs doesnt meet the 
building regulations and doesnt meet the guidance about how compliance with the 
regulations can be achieved. And its impossible to see how the 1.9 metres 
headroom can be said to be commensurate with any other way of meeting the broad 
requirement set out in the regulations that stairs should allow safe passage between 
floors.
This is a defect then, as far as Im concerned. Its difficult to say that its caused any 
damage as yet, so it wont be covered under Section 3. But Im satisfied that under 
Section 4, there is a present or imminent danger to health and safety.
I should say, Im not too sure imminent is the right word. But it appears to me that 
the low bulkhead certainly constitutes a present danger to health and safety. The 
building regulations and guidance are set out in terms of safe passage between 
floors. If theyre not met, it seems to me theres a very strong case for saying things 
arent safe  and there is a present danger.
Fire safety
In their claim, Miss L and Mr W said that their home wasnt built in such a way as to 
meet the broad requirements of the fire safety regulations  which say that occupants 
must have a 30-minute window to evacuate a property after a fire breaks out. In 
particular, they believe the materials used to separate the floors of the house arent 
sufficiently fire retardant to allow that 30-minute period for escape.
Miss L and Mr W have provided a report from a fire safety expert which suggests that 
the construction of their house doesnt meet the relevant requirements.
NHBC have pointed out that the expert report may not reflect the fact that the current 
regulations may differ from those in force at the time the house was built. However, 
they do acknowledge that the broad requirement remains to allow 30-minutes for 
escape.
Their main point is that the expert report doesnt say how the floors and ceilings in 
the house are constructed. NHBC have looked at the original plans for the build. 
These say the ceilings will be made up of 15 mm plasterboard attached to the 
underside of the floor joists. And the floors above the joists will be made up by 22mm 
thickness of chipboard. NHBC say that this specification meets the requirements of 
the version (published in 2006) of the guidance which applied in 2012.
NHBC have provided us with copies of the relevant guidance. And it appears their 
interpretation is correct. Theyve also sent us copies of the technical specifications of 
15 mm thick plasterboard  which confirms that it has the required fire resistance.
That leaves us with two issues. Mr W tells us that the plasterboard used for his 
ceilings is 12.5 mm thick. So, theres a difference of opinion there about what 
thickness of plasterboard is in place in Miss L and Mr Ws house. Its my assumption 
the truth of the matter can be easily ascertained by a swift and easy inspection.Perhaps more importantly, Mr W tells us that the eaves in his house  which are 
directly above rooms in the floor below and adjacent to the bedroom in the top floor 
had no flooring on top of the joists (22 mm chipboard or otherwise) when he bought 
the house. He says hes put down boards on the joists, in some of the areas of the 
eaves (but not all), since then simply to allow access and inspection of the area.
I have no reason to doubt Mr Ws word on this  although again the facts can be 
easily established by a quick inspection. And assuming what he says is true, then a 
fire on the lower of the two floors could spread through to the eaves more quickly 
than the regulations would permit. And from there, the fire could spread relatively 
quickly - through the floor space if not by other means  to the occupied upper floor 
bedroom.
As things stand then, it appears to me that there is a defect in the build, in that not all 
of the floors of the house (at least not in all places) are as fire resistant as the 
regulations and guidance require. And in that case, there is a present and imminent 
danger to the health and safety of the occupants of the house.
Summary of outcome
Taking all of the above into account, Im minded at present to uphold Miss L and 
Mr Ws complaint.
Im minded to require NHBC to carry out or pay for all necessary work to bring the 
roof into compliance with the relevant regulations and guidance. I know theyve 
already agreed to this, but that was after the complaint was brought to our service 
and so forms part of my reasons for upholding the complaint.
Im minded to require NHBC to pay for the work Miss L and Mr W have had done to 
their garden to address the issues with the garage wall. That assumes NHBC are 
provided with the relevant invoices or other proof of payment.
I should stress that NHBC should pay for any works which were structurally 
necessary to protect the garage wall and put the garden back in the same good order 
it was in before the works commenced. Im not going to require them to pay for any 
betterment to the garden which may have been affected whilst those necessary 
works were being carried out.
I should also say that Miss L and Mr W carried out some attempts to address the 
problem with the water ingress before they decided on the fairly major earthworks 
outside. I think NHBC should also pay for these other works  which unfortunately 
ultimately proved unsuccessful. Again, subject to provision of invoices, receipts or 
other proof pf payment.
Im minded to require NHBC to carry out or pay for work to rectify the issues with the 
bulkhead on the stairs to the second floor. Again, any such works must bring the 
stairs into compliance with the relevant regulations and guidance. And NHBC must 
return the stairs and any affected area around them into the same satisfactory 
structural and decorative order they were in beforehand.
Im also minded to require NHBC to carry out or pay for works to ensure the 
appropriate and necessary fire resistance between the floors of the house. To be 
clear, that means all plasterboard forming part of a barrier between floors should be 
of at least the required thickness. And it also means the eaves must be fitted with appropriate flooring or boarding on top of the joists to comply with the requirements 
of the regulations and guidance.
Finally, Im minded to require NHBC to pay Miss L and Mr W £1,500 in compensation 
for the trouble and upset theyve experienced as a result of NHBCs errors and 
delays in dealing properly with this claim, as detailed above.
The responses to my provisional decision
Miss L and Mr W have responded to my provisional decision in some detail, in several 
emails and phone calls to our investigator. And theyve provided further photographs and 
documents.
Im not going to repeat here the points theyve made in the same detail. Im sure theyll 
forgive me if my summary of their main points is exactly that.
Theyve told me the work theyve carried out so far around the garage wall is only in fact a 
temporary repair. In essence, theyve removed the retaining wall which abutted the garage 
wall and theyve put in place a temporary barrier  further from the garage wall  to prevent 
the gardens soil from leaning on the garage wall. This is partly supported by steel and 
timber fixings between the garage wall and the temporary barrier.
Miss L and Mr W are keen that my final decision reflects this and requires NHBC to pay for 
both the temporary repairs and the more lasting repairs that are still necessary to protect the 
garage wall and restore the path and garden to an acceptable state.
They also dispute the version of events reflected in my provisional decision which suggests 
that there was a damp proof membrane in the retaining wall. Mr W says he found a woven 
membrane, similar to garden weed suppressor, in the retaining wall when he took it down. 
But this was tattered and wasnt as high or as long as NHBC had suggested. In fact, he says 
it was around two metres long, compared to the six-metre length of the garage wall it was 
supposed to protect.
Mr W also told us he may struggle to produce invoices for all of this temporary work. He says 
he did much of it himself and paid any builders / labourers in cash. Hes also said his 
estimated costs include the power tools needed for the job, although its not clear whether 
hes saying he hired those tools or bought them outright.
Miss L and Mr W also believe the level of compensation I suggested for their trouble and 
upset is inadequate. Theyve provided an impact statement from Miss L. And Mr W has told 
us that hes spent around 250 hours dealing with NHBC over the claim and the complaints 
he made to them and in pursuing the matter with our service and other bodies.
Miss L and Mr W have also asked why I havent added 8% interest to any payments I may 
require NHBC to make to them. And theyve asked me to provide a detailed statement of 
how the suggested compensation has been calculated.
Mr W told us hes obtaining quotes for the necessary work to the roof and the bulkhead on 
the stairs and to meet fire safety standards. He says hes happy for NHBC to carry out the 
repairs if they wont accept those quotes. But hes also said that he and Miss L would prefer 
NHBC to offer a single lump sum cash payment to cover all of the necessary repairs to their 
house.
Finally, Miss L and Mr W have said that if NHBC do need to carry out further inspections at 
the property, they would very much prefer that they arent carried out by the same surveyors who attended previously. They believe that so much was missed in the previous inspections 
and reports  and so much inaccurate information provided - that theyve lost trust with the 
individuals involved.
NHBC also responded to my provisional decision. Theyve reiterated that they accept the 
work needed on the roof is covered and theyll contact Miss L and Mr W to make further 
arrangements to get that done as soon as this case is closed.
Theyve also accepted that my final decision will be that the garage wall is also covered. But 
theyve asked that I make it clear that they have a right to assess any invoices provided by 
Miss L and Mr W to check that no betterment was involved.
NHBC say they will attend the property to assess the work necessary to resolve the issue 
with the stair bulkhead. They say this will necessarily involve taking measurements  which 
they have never done so far  to check the headroom and they want me to ensure that my 
decision reflects the fact that this will be acceptable.
NHBCs most detailed comments relate to the fire safety issues. Theyve said there may be 
circumstances in which a 12.5mm plasterboard may meet the relevant requirements  for 
example, when the ceiling is also then skimmed with wet plaster at 2.5mm thickness or if the 
joist centres are below a certain width apart.
Theyve also said that the arrangement in the eaves  where there is no boarding  may still 
comply with the relevant regulations if other requirements are met. 
In short, NHBC suggest that they will need to arrange an inspection by a fire engineer, to 
ascertain what is currently in place in the property and exactly what work needs to be done 
to make the property compliant with fire safety requirements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might be useful if I make a general observation first, before I turn specifically to the 
comments weve received from NHBC and from Miss L and Mr W.
The complaint I have to consider is, essentially, that NHBC wrongly declined a number of 
aspects of the original claim made by Miss L and Mr W back in September 2019  and that 
there have been delays and confusion in the handling of that claim.
Miss L and Mr W have accepted that many of the 23 elements of their claim werent covered. 
The remaining issues were around the garage wall, the stair bulkhead, the roof and fire 
safety. I said in my provisional decision that NHBC were wrong to decline all of those 
remaining aspects of the claim based on the information they had at the time. And I said 
NHBC had handled the claim very poorly and caused unnecessary delay and frustration for 
Miss L and Mr W.
NHBC accepted that the roof was covered before the case came to me for a decision. 
Theyve now accepted theyll be liable for the repairs to the garage wall and the stair 
bulkhead (assuming their measurements match Mr Ws  and theres no reason to suspect 
they wont). And theyve agreed to look again at the fire safety issues and appoint a fire 
engineer to make an assessment.
Im pleased that weve reached that position. I am grateful to Miss L and Mr W for bearing with us whilst we conducted our investigation and for clarifying their position in such an 
eloquent and comprehensive manner  especially when they may have felt they were being 
asked to repeat themselves. 
And Im grateful to NHBC for engaging with us very positively and constructively in the later 
stages of our investigation - and for their considered response to my provisional decision.
I have to be clear that, having got to the point where we have a decision on all four of those 
aspects of the claim, its not for me to direct in detail what happens from here on in to 
conclude NHBCs handling of the claim. Our service isnt a substitute claims handler or loss 
assessor and we will inevitably have to leave Miss L and Mr W and NHBC to work together 
to bring the matter to a mutually satisfactory conclusion.
I say that because it does mean that Miss L and Mr W will have to allow NHBC to carry out 
further inspections and assessments now. And I  quite rightly - cant dictate exactly how 
those inspections will be carried out or what those assessments will conclude.
I think its reasonable for Miss L and Mr W to say they dont want the same surveyors or 
inspectors back again  and I would ask NHBC to comply with that request. But beyond that, 
Im not in any position to pre-emptively settle any further debates or disagreements that 
might arise in the further handling of the claim. 
If Miss L and Mr W are unhappy with what NHBC do from now on, they will need to make a 
further complaint  to NHBC at first - and then to us if theyre dissatisfied with the outcome.
Turning to the detailed responses to my provisional decision, Im very grateful for Mr Ws 
clear description of the work hes done so far to protect his garage wall. I apologise that Id 
misunderstood what wed been told previously. Im also grateful for the further information 
and evidence he provided to demonstrate that the wall wasnt built in compliance with the 
requirements, although that simply confirms the position I took in my provisional decision.
Its now clear that NHBC wont be faced with invoices for work already done to rectify the 
issue permanently and to restore the path and garden to an acceptable state. Rather, theyll 
need to pay the reasonable costs Mr W has incurred so far (Ill come to this in more detail 
below) to affect temporary repairs. And they will need to agree with Miss L and Mr W what 
work remains to be done  and whether NHBC will carry that out themselves or pay for 
Miss L and Mr W to get it done.
I expect that NHBC will now consider the costs Mr W says he incurred for the temporary 
repairs. Where those can be evidenced, NHBC should cover those costs because Miss L 
and Mr W were left with no choice but to go ahead and have that work done once NHBC had 
rejected their original claim.
Its not for me to say what evidence NHBC will accept. Mr W says he may not be able to 
produce invoices for all of the costs. But there may be other ways in which he can 
demonstrate that the costs were incurred. 
As I say, I cant act as a surrogate claim handler here  its not my role to do so. Mr W can 
provide NHBC with whatever information / documentation he has about the costs incurred. 
NHBC must then consider that reasonably and fairly and decide what costs they will meet. If 
Mr W has an issue with the outcome, he would be entitled to make another complaint.
Just for the sake of clarity, I doubt NHBC would agree to pay for power tools Mr W has 
bought to carry out the repairs  and then kept. And I certainly wouldnt expect or require 
them to do so. If he hired those tools, then he will be able to produce evidence of the costs incurred.
I should also be clear about one other thing. I do expect NHBC to meet all costs that are 
shown to relate to the temporary repairs. That includes the costs relating to Mr Ws first 
(failed) attempt to stop the ingress of water by applying an internal slurry to the garage wall.
Mr W has provided a quote for the work he thinks is necessary to permanently rectify the 
issues with the garage wall. Hes pointed out this is now a few years old and would need to 
be increased to meet the cost today. He says hes happy for NHBC to accept that quote 
(with an inflationary uplift) or do the work themselves.
I think thats perfectly reasonable, but it is for NHBC to decide which route they wish to take. 
My decision is that they are responsible for those repairs  how they choose to meet that 
responsibility is for them to decide, taking into account any proposals Miss L and Mr W wish 
to make.
NHBC have said they will carry out or pay for repairs to the roof. Theyll also carry out or pay 
for any work necessary to raise the stair bulkhead to provide the required clearance. 
Of course, they cant do that without access to the property to assess what work needs to be 
done. I dont think its unreasonable for NHBC to measure the headroom / clearance as part 
of that  theyd need to do so to determine the extent to which the bulkhead needs to be 
raised (or the stairs dropped, if thats the best solution). Ill assume Miss L and Mr W have no 
objection to that, given that it will simply highlight the facts of the matter.
Having carefully considered NHBCs comments, I dont think its unreasonable either for 
them to ask for a fire engineer to inspect the property to determine what needs to be done to 
address the fire safety issues relating to the lack of boarding in the eaves and the width of 
the plasterboard.
I would only say that the fire engineer should be independent. If NHBC and Miss L and Mr W 
cant agree on how the engineer is selected, Id suggest NHBC provide details of at least 
three independent engineers to Miss L and Mr W  and allow them to select one from that 
list. It goes without saying that NHBC should meet the cost of engaging the agreed fire 
engineer.
Id also say that the engineer must be asked not only to describe the situation as it stands 
but also to specify what work needs to be done now to bring the property into compliance 
with the fire safety guidance and requirements. Im wary of any further delays in the 
settlement of this claim and/or in the necessary work getting done.
I note Miss L and Mr Ws wish for NHBC to offer them a single cash settlement for all of the 
work required for their home. Im not going to require NHBC to make an offer of cash 
settlement. They are entitled to decide how to settle the claim. But Id expect NHBC to 
reasonably consider that option  amongst others  when they decide on the course to take 
to bring this matter to a satisfactory conclusion.
Finally, Ill turn to the comments Miss L and Mr W have made about the amount of 
compensation I was minded to require NHBC to award them in this case.
First, when our service requires a business to make a financial award to a complainant, we 
will add 8% simple interest per annum in cases where the complainant has effectively been 
deprived of money for a period of time because of the businesss errors. The interest reflects 
the fact that that money might have been used for other things if it had been available to the 
complainant.In this case, Miss L and Mr W have been inconvenienced by NHBCs poor handling of the 
claim. Theyve experienced a degree of frustration, stress and annoyance  for a relatively 
long period of time. And the compensation I suggested for their trouble and upset was 
intended to reflect that.
However, I cant see that theyve been without money they would otherwise have had. If 
NHBC had settled the claim as soon as possible in 2019, the money would have gone into 
the repairs (either directly from NHBC or in a cash settlement Miss L and Mr W would have 
used to pay their own contractor).
Miss L and Mr W have suffered the inconvenience of experiencing a length of time in their 
house without the repairs having been completed  and Ive accounted for that in the 
compensation Im suggesting  but any worsening of the financial situation (because the 
cost of the repairs has increased) will rightly be absorbed by NHBC. Theyll be paying the 
price for the repairs in 2022  they wont be paying 2019 prices.
Mr W has also told us he thinks £5,000 compensation would be more acceptable for the 
trouble and upset he and Miss L have suffered. And he wants me to provide an itemised 
account of how exactly I arrived at £1,500.
Any judgement about compensation for trouble and upset will, to an extent, be subjective. 
Our service is a quick and informal alternative to the courts  at no cost to the complainant. 
We dont try to itemise compensation awards or account for every penny of compensation by 
use of a mathematical formula.
Id ask Miss L and Mr W to understand that our services aim is not to punish financial 
businesses for their mistakes. Mr W has said to our investigator that he doesnt think weve 
been harsh enough with NHBC. But we look primarily at the complainant and the effect any 
mistakes have had on them. And we try to put that right  to put the complainant back in the 
position they would have been in had the mistake not happened. 
Miss L and Mr W are now going to have their claim properly considered and settled fairly. Its 
not part of our role to then try to punish or sanction NHBC beyond requiring them to put 
things right for their customer. 
Id also refer Miss L and Mr W to our website, which includes some advice and guidance on 
the kinds of compensation awards we make. This says that awards of over £750 and up to 
£1,500 will be appropriate in cases where the complainant has suffered substantial distress, 
upset and worry, and/or serious disruption to daily life over a sustained period (many months 
and sometimes more than a year).
Awards in the next higher bracket (£1,500 - £5,000) will be appropriate in cases of sustained 
distress, potentially affecting someones health, or severe disruption to daily life typically 
lasting more than a year. And at the higher end of that scale, the effects of the businesss 
mistake(s) could be irreversible or have a lasting impact on someones health or have 
resulted in personal injury.
Miss L and Mr W have experienced considerable stress and inconvenience as a result of 
NHBCs errors. I dont want to minimise that or say anything that would suggest Ive not 
taken very seriously the problems theyve told us about.
However, its my judgement that their experience falls around about on the boundary 
between the two levels of award Ive just described (£750-£1,500 and £1,500-£5,000).
Miss L and Mr W have not had to leave their house for any period of time. Theyve not had to live without adequate facilities for any period of time. They havent suffered personal injury. 
And Ive seen nothing to suggest a lasting or permanent effect on their health. 
In essence, there is a difference between worrying about something that might happen  and 
again, I dont want to minimise the effect this kind of worry and stress can have  and that 
thing actually happening. 
Miss L and Mr W were worried that their roof was unsafe and that their garage might 
collapse. I understand that they were genuinely and justifiably worried  and they should be 
compensated for that. But I hope theyll understand that they wont be compensated to the 
same level as someone whose roof and/or garage had in fact collapsed.
I also have to take into account not the length of time from the claim first being made to now, 
but from the time the claim might reasonably have been settled to now. In other words, 
NHBCs errors have delayed the settling of the claim, but it would never have been settled in 
September 2019, for example, when it was first made. 
A complicated claim of this nature, resulting in serious and complex building works, might 
have reasonably been expected to take up to a year or more to resolve completely  
especially bearing in mind the COVID lockdown in March 2020.
So, NHBCs errors have caused some considerable delays here, but NHBC arent 
responsible for all the stress and worry Miss L and Mr W have experienced since September 
2019 or for all of the inconvenience theyve suffered in that time.  
In summary, the disruption to Miss L and Mr Ws lives has been serious and the distress 
substantial (over a prolonged period). But I dont think I could justify awarding compensation 
beyond the bottom end of the £1,500-£5,000 scale, bearing in mind the descriptions 
published on our website.
Putting things right
I come back to the point that my provisional decision essentially said NHBC were wrong at 
the time to decline the aspects of Miss L and Mr Ws claim relating to the roof strapping, the 
garage wall (and the ground around it), the headroom on the stairs and the fire safety issues.
Im now going to require NHBC to carry out or pay for the work to repair the roof and the 
garage wall.
Im going to require NHBC to carry out or pay for any work necessary to bring the headroom 
and clearance on the stairs into compliance with the relevant building standards. NHBC will 
of course be entitled to assess what work needs to be done in this respect.
Im also going to require NHBC to carry out or pay for any necessary work (to be determined 
by an inspection carried out by an independent fire engineer) to bring the property into 
compliance with fire safety standards and guidance.
And Im going to require NHBC to pay Miss L and Mr W £1,500 in compensation for the 
trouble and upset theyve suffered due to NHBCs errors and delays in handling their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss L and Mr Ws complaint.
National House-Building Council must: carry out and pay for repairs to the roof;
pay for the work already carried out to temporarily protect the garage wall;
carry out or pay for the work necessary to permanently protect the garage wall 
and return the path and garden to an acceptable state;
carry out or pay for any necessary work to provide sufficient headroom and 
clearance on the stairs between the first and second floors;
arrange and pay for an inspection by an independent fire safety expert;
carry out or pay for any and all necessary work identified by that expert to 
provide fire resistance between floors in compliance with the relevant 
regulations and guidance; and
pay Miss L and Mr W £1,500 in compensation for their trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman