DRN-3047498
The complaint
Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr C bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a credit card in the branch. It 
covered him in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
I sent Mr C and Barclays a provisional decision on 16 August 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Cs credit card application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional extras. It offered 
him the choice to buy PPI or turn it down. The option to buy PPI was ticked, the option to 
turn it down was left blank, and Mr C signed the form to confirm his choices. Ive not seen 
any wider problems with these particular sales, nor anything which shows that Mr C was 
misled into buying PPI here. So I think its most likely that Barclays made Mr C aware he had 
a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can 
understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr C, or not. The requirements 
were stricter on Barclays if they did recommend it  so to be as fair to Mr C as possible, Ill 
assess things as if they did. That would mean Barclays had to check the PPI was right for 
Mr C  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Mr C was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. The policy would have paid out on top of his sick pay and 
offered him more comprehensive cover, especially for when his sick pay reduced to just a 
fraction of his normal pay. It also meant Mr C wouldnt have to resort to measures such as 
selling his home or asking his family for money, as hes suggested he couldve done instead. 
So the PPI could have been useful for him in case hed needed to claim.
In response to our adjudicators view, Mr C said he had an unusually large redundancy 
entitlement  almost two years worth of salary  and so he didnt need PPI. Ive thought 
carefully about this point. Understandably, Mr C hasnt been able to provide any evidence of 
his redundancy entitlement because of the time thats passed. But the amount hes told us 
now is unusually generous, and doesnt fit with standard entitlements from the time. It also 
does not seem especially likely given his employer. And when Mr C first complained to 
Barclays, he told them his entitlement was around a third of this  worth just under eight 
months worth of salary at the point of sale  which is much closer to the standard rate. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that what Mr C first said is correct, and 
that he had a more normal redundancy entitlement. And so I still think its most likely that the 
PPI couldve offered him useful cover in addition to his work benefits.
Its possible that the information Barclays gave Mr C about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr C chose to take out the policy, which indicates he 
wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of 
the policys main exclusions or limitations, and it could have been useful for Mr C in case 
something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr C could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI 
was likely to have put him off taking it out.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
13 September 2021. Barclays clarified that they wanted to offer Mr C £100 compensation 
for a delay in dealing with his complaint  separate to the issue of the sale of the policy. 
Mr C accepted this compensation offer on the basis that it wouldnt affect his mis-selling 
claim. Mr C also made some further comments about the sale of the PPI, which Ill talk 
about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C pointed out that certain details on the credit card application hadnt been filled in. But 
while I understand why he thought to raise that, those sections were to do with either the 
setting up of the card itself or its extra optional features  they didnt have a bearing on the 
sale of PPI.
Mr C also pointed out that his bank details had been written in someone elses handwriting. 
Again, I can understand why he thought to raise this. But its quite common in a branch 
application like this for the staff member to write or type out the application themselves. And 
in order to get the details needed, like Mr Cs bank details and personal details and so on, 
they would need to have discussed the application with him. So I think its most likely they 
discussed the choice for PPI with him too, and got his consent to add it.
Mr C suggested the possibilities that he couldve been told he had to have PPI, or that the 
box for PPI couldve been ticked some time after hed signed the application. I accept those 
are possibilities, in much the same way that many things are possible. But theres no 
evidence which substantiates that something like that happened, nor have I seen any wider 
problems with Barclays sales of this type from around this time. The evidence I have from 
the time  the application  indicates that PPI was chosen and Mr C signed to confirm his 
choices. And Mr C explicitly didnt choose the option to turn down PPI. So I dont have a fair 
basis on which to conclude that Barclays did something wrong in the way Mr C is 
suggesting. I think its more likely that they offered him a choice and he chose PPI.
Mr C reiterated that he had good benefits through work. Some of the benefits he mentioned, 
like his final salary scheme, were for different situations to the PPI so Im afraid theyre not 
relevant here. Mr C also said that when he voluntarily left work some years later he was able 
to adequately sustain himself. I appreciate the argument, but that was some years after the 
sale, rather than at the point of sale  so its quite possible that his benefits had significantly 
increased by then. And based on what Ive seen of Mr Cs circumstances at the point of sale, 
there were gaps in his existing cover which the PPI could have been useful in filling.So while I can see where Mr C is coming from, having reconsidered the case Ive come to 
the same conclusion as before  that I have not found this particular policy to have been 
mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about the sale of this particular PPI policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman