DRN-2051769
The complaint
Mr B complained about how The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
handled his claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Bs car was damaged in an accident in July 2019. NFUM at first repaired his car but he 
was unhappy with the repairs and had to return it for more work, which NFUM accepted was 
their responsibility to rectify. After that work was done, it was discovered that his car had a 
major engine failure and needed a new engine. 
NFUM said they were willing to replace his cars engine and didnt think the car was 
uneconomical to repair. But Mr B didnt want any more repairs, so instead NFUM agreed to 
pay a cash settlement of his cars market value at that date, less his policy excess. They 
called this a constructive total loss payment. 
Mr B had several complaints. He said NFUM took too long to repair his car, so he was 
without it until November 2019, and hed had to phone them many times to find out what was 
happening. He was also unhappy that they didnt provide him with a like-for-like courtesy car. 
He also felt that they should have declared his car uneconomical to repair earlier than they 
did and pay him its market value at the accident date, not the later date when the engine 
failed. He said that his cars value had depreciated while it was in for repair, and hed still 
had to pay for his cars finance even though he didnt have the car. He was unhappy he was 
left out of pocket as a result of what he saw as NFUMs poor claim management.
NFUM offered him compensation of £150 for the delay and the service problems, which they 
said fell below their standards. But they didnt accept his other points. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. They thought 
that NFUM had acted fairly and that the compensation they had offered was reasonable.  Mr 
B didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with the courtesy car issue. Mr B was unhappy that they didnt offer him a like-
for-like courtesy car, as he felt theyd promised. NFUM deny having promised this. They said 
that their supplier offered him a car which they felt was more than his policy allowed, but he 
didnt agree it was like-for-like. NFUM apologised if their supplier hadnt explained what his 
rights were under the policy and offered £150 in compensation.
Ive looked at his policy and it says on page 43 All courtesy hire cars will be 1.0 litre 
hatchback or similar, usually less than 1 year old. They are not intended to be a direct 
replacement of YOUR CAR. 
So its clear that the policy didnt provide a like-for-like car. It seems that Mr Bs legal 
expense insurance could have covered a like-for-like courtesy car if the insurer believed they 
had good prospect of recovering that cost from the third party responsible for the accident, 
but they didnt. Mr B felt that was NFUMs fault as they didnt trace the third party at first. But 
I can see that NFUM checked the third-party number plate on various official databases and 
couldnt locate the third party, so I dont think that was unreasonable. In any event, it wasnt 
NFUMs decision about whether recovery prospects were good enough, as that was up to 
the legal expenses insurer. I think NFUM did all they needed to under their policy as regards 
the courtesy car and that was enough.
As regards a cars value, we dont decide what the market value is; we merely consider 
whether the insurer has reached a fair and reasonable amount having regard to the 
valuations in the trade guides, as well as any other evidence the parties may provide. That 
evidence might include advertisements detailing the sale prices of similar cars, but we bear 
in mind that cars usually sell for less than the advertised price, so we think that an insurer 
isnt bound by any advertised prices. 
NFUM agreed to pay Mr B his cars market value under the policy in November after the 
engine failed. But he felt that they should have been declared his car uneconomical to repair 
after the accident, and so they should have paid its market value then, not in November. He 
said that during that time he felt that his car had depreciated by several thousand pounds. 
NFUM didnt agree with that assessment and theyve shown us they relied on trade 
valuations and copy adverts to do that. But they said it was irrelevant anyway what Mr Bs 
cars value was at the time of the accident. They didnt accept that they should have valued 
his car at the accident date, rather than the date of the decision to settle with him on a 
constructive loss basis. Thats because theyd never thought the car was uneconomical to 
repair. They thought it was repairable after the accident and it was still repairable after the 
engine failure. They were willing to replace the cars engine, but because Mr B didnt want 
that, and in view of their previous repair delays, they agreed a cash settlement. And as the 
repair estimate after his accident was about £4,000 and his cars market value was £32,000, 
the margin between those figures suggest that, even allowing for the engine to be replaced, 
it wouldnt have made the car uneconomical to repair in July either. 
So I dont think that it was unreasonable for NFUM to say that his car was never 
uneconomical to repair. According to NFUMs records, their engineer discussed the 
resolution of the claim with Mr B, and Mr B had agreed to the constructive loss settlement. 
Mr B said he only accepted that settlement grudgingly because hed been so long without his 
car and was still having to pay the finance and road tax every month. He thought that NFUM 
didnt really intend to replace the engine, despite what they said.  But I think NFUMs records 
do support that they felt they agreed it with him, and that they gave him the choice of cash 
settlement or repair. In doing so they were doing more than they were required to do under 
the policy, and so I dont think it was unreasonable of them to use the cars market value at 
the time of that decision. And as theyve used the industry trade guides and market research 
of comparable cars, I cant say that their valuation was unreasonable either.
Mr B didnt think the compensation was enough to compensate him for what he said were 
the many phone calls hed had to make and for being without his car for five months, when 
NFUM had said the repair would take about five days. Hed had to keep paying for his cars 
finance and other expenses over those months but didnt have his car. 
However as the accident happened on about 25 July and he got his car back at the end of 
October that is about three months.  I do see it would be frustrating to be without his car and 
for the repairs to take longer than expected, but NFUM did apologise for that and 
compensate him for that. I do think that its very unfortunate that Mr Bs car has been 
damaged and that the repairs took longer than expected. I accept that he had to pay his cars finance and other car expenses while not having his car, but thats not something wed 
expect a business to pay for. There will always be some costs and expenses involved in an 
accident claim and repairs. I think that the additional inconvenience he has experienced due 
to the delayed repairs here is adequately reflected in the compensation NFUM have offered.  
This means that I dont require them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
