DRN-3245402
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about a joint life mortgage endowment policy he and his ex-wife held with 
Phoenix Life Limited. He is unhappy that Phoenix has only paid him half of the maturity value 
of the policy despite him having paid all of the premiums.
What happened
Mr A took out the mortgage endowment policy in 1991 to protect and repay his mortgage. 
Mr As wife was subsequently added to the policy as a policyholder and life assured. The 
policy had a term of 25 years and matured in 2016.
Phoenix didnt have a valid address for Mr M in 2016. It attempted to contact him via the 
premium paying bank, but the proceeds of the policy werent claimed at that time.
It was not until 2020 that Mr A contacted Phoenix to claim the maturity proceeds. It explained 
what needed to happen for the maturity value to be paid out  the maturity claim form to be 
completed and returned, and Mrs A to contact Phoenix.
In September 2020 Mr A confirmed that Mrs A had moved abroad after their relationship 
ended and he had no way of contacting her. He was told that as this was the case, Phoenix 
would pay him 50% of the maturity value. This was confirmed in writing and a claim form 
was sent to him. The claim form was returned and Phoenix paid out half the maturity value to 
Mr A on 28 October 2020. 
Mr A contacted Phoenix again in 2021 wanting to know how he could get the rest of the 
maturity value paid to him. Phoenix said that it would call him back, but it didnt.
Mr M complained on 5 October 2021. He was unhappy, having paid all of the monthly 
instalments, that Phoenix wouldnt pay him the whole maturity value.
Phoenix responded to the complaint on 8 October 2021. It said that, as the policy was in joint 
names, each policyholder had a right to the maturity proceeds. As such, it couldnt pay him 
all of the maturity value. It said that if Mr M had a deed of assignment of the policy or the 
paperwork from the divorce detailed that he was entitled to 100% of the proceeds, it would 
review whether it could pay him all of the proceeds. Phoenix also offered Mr M £100 for the 
poor administrative service when he questioned only receiving half the maturity value. 
Mr A wasnt happy with Phoenixs response and referred the complaint to us. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She didnt think Phoenixs approach to paying out only half the maturity value was 
unfair, as Mrs A, as a joint policyholder, also had a right to the proceeds of the policy. While 
Mr A hadnt asked us to consider the matter of the poor service hed received in 2021, for 
completeness, our investigator confirmed that the compensation payment of £100 Phoenix 
had offered was suitable in the circumstances. 
Mr A didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said that he had taken out a mortgage, 
and didnt want or ask for a life insurance policy. He also effectively said that he thought 
Phoenix was stealing the half of the maturity value it wouldnt pay him. Mr A asked that the 
complaint be escalated for a review of the investigators findings. As such, it was decided the 
complaint should be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The endowment policy was in joint names at the time it matured. As such, unless the policy 
was assigned to one of the policyholders, they both had a right to the maturity value. Which 
of the parties paid the policy premiums doesnt affect that right. As such, in order for the 
entire maturity value to be paid out, both Mr A and his ex-wife needed to give their 
permission for it to happen.
In the absence of the ex-Mrs As involvement, Phoenix is unable to determine whether she 
would be happy/in agreement for the maturity value to be paid in its entirety to Mr A. As 
such, I consider the compromise Phoenix made, in paying Mr A half the maturity value, was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Phoenix also highlighted documentation that might mean that Mr A could receive all of the 
maturity value. One of the options being the divorce documentation, which would have 
detailed the financial arrangements and might have documented what the Court determined 
should happen to the policy.  Alternatively, a deed of assignment if Mrs A had transferred her 
rights under the policy to Mr A. 
Mr A has indicated that he thinks Phoenix will absorb the remaining maturity value into its 
profits. That is not the case. The money will remain associated with the policy until Mrs A 
can be traced and confirm her intentions for it or Mr A provides evidence that the money 
should be paid to him. 
While I know that Mr A wont agree with me, I dont consider Phoenix acted inappropriately 
or treated him unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
28 September 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman