DRN-3700869
The complaint
Mr Bs representative complains on his behalf that AXA Insurance UK PLC (AXA) did not 
complete satisfactory repairs when he made a claim on his home insurance.
References to Mr B or his representative, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of AXA involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to AXA.
What happened
In 2018 Mr B had a leak on his dishwasher that he had repaired by his own plumber. 
Approximately six months later Mr B noticed that the tiles on the floor in his kitchen were 
lifting so he made a claim on his home buildings insurance policy for an escape of water that 
had been caused by the leak on the dishwasher. 
AXA instructed its assessors to look at the claim and it was accepted. AXA completed the 
repair works for the damage caused. The work was completed in 2019.
Mr B sold his house to a family member. This was after the work to repair the damage from 
the escape of water from the dishwasher was completed.
In 2022 the new owner made a claim on his own policy when he discovered damp in the 
kitchen and hallway floor. He told his insurer he was aware of a claim from the previous 
owner for a leak from a dishwasher. His insurer said the leak was from a damaged external 
gulley, which was an ongoing problem that should have been rectified on the previous repair. 
His insurer declined his claim as it said the damage was there prior to the start of his policy.
AXA said there was no evidence to say that the current issue was due to the escape of 
water in 2018. It said unless evidence is presented to show the leak occurred during Mr Bs 
period of cover, the issue falls under the new insurers responsibility.
As Mr Bs representative was not happy with AXA, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint, saying there wasnt enough evidence to say 
that AXA made any mistakes when they dealt with Mr Bs claim in 2019. 
As Mr Bs representative is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been 
brought to me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the evidence provided by the parties about Mr Bs claim in 2019. Mr B said 
the source of the leak was only the dishwasher and there was nothing to show another 
source of the damage.
AXAs contractors reported in early 2019 there was damage from the dishwasher leak and 
carried out the repairs to the areas of damage. The kitchen was fully stripped out and the 
tiles were replaced with hard wood flooring. 
Damage to the external gulley was not found until early 2022 after the new owner of the 
house made a claim on his own home insurance policy. The claim was rejected by the new 
owners insurer because they said the damage was happening prior to the start of their 
policy. The new insurer said the claim should be redirected to AXA as the original insurer. 
They said AXA didnt identify and rectify the issue properly during the claim in 2019. 
AXA said it dealt with the claim that Mr B made, which was the damage caused by a leak 
from a dishwasher. It said it was not its responsibility to determine where the leak came 
from. AXA confirmed it did not receive any further contact from Mr B about new damp after 
this claim was completed.
AXA said a damaged gulley wasnt part of the original claim and would have been a 
separate claim. AXA also said as it was not possible to determine when the incident with the 
damaged gulley occurred then it would be the new insurance company who would need to 
deal with the claim.
The new owner of the property obtained a report from a building contractor in 2022 that said 
theres a continuing escape of water from a damaged external gulley. The report says the 
leak was present when Mr B was insured by AXA and that it should have been noticed and 
repaired during the repair work completed in 2019. It said the 2019 repairs didnt adequately 
address or resolve the problem. No evidence was provided to prove this. 
I saw that the new insurer also said; It is entirely possible that there may be another leak 
from pipework behind or underneath the kitchen units.
I have not seen anything that confirms with any certainty when the leak from the external 
gulley started. What is certain is that the leak was not reported or identified during Mr Bs 
term of insurance with AXA. I also havent seen any evidence to confirm a leak from a 
damaged gulley when AXA made the 2019 repairs. No contact was made by Mr B to AXA 
following this claim until three years later. 
Due to the time it took for the leak to be found after Mr Bs insurance ended, I do not think it 
is likely that the leak was present within his period of cover with AXA. And I cannot say with 
any certainty AXA made errors when handing the original claim.
Therefore, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint and dont require AXA to do anything further with 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Sally-Ann HardingOmbudsman