DRN-1987407
The complaint
Mr K complains UK Insurance Limited (UKI) settled a claim a third party made against his 
car insurance policy. Mr K says theres no proof his car was involved in damaging the third 
partys vehicle.
What happened
Mr K parked his car in a hotel car park. When he returned to it the following morning, it had 
moved forward several metres and was positioned across the parking bays opposite where 
hed left the car. Mr K says he enquired at the hotel reception whether anything untoward 
had been reported, but it hadnt.
Later that morning, Mr K telephoned UKI to tell them what had happened. He didnt know 
what had caused the car to move. He said there was a new scratch or small scuff on it, 
and asked UKI to let him know if anyone made a claim. In later calls with UKI Mr K described 
finding his car that morning, moved and with a piece of plastic broken on the front.
Some weeks later a third party made a claim against Mr Ks car insurance. UKI contacted 
Mr K on 3 September to let him know, and a field engineer inspected and photographed his 
car in October.
The third party provided photographs from the scene in December 2018 and, later, a witness 
statement. The dates on the witness statement suggest it was requested by the third partys 
representative in January 2019 but not returned by the witness until July 2019. The witness 
said theyd seen Mr Ks car rolling towards the third partys parked car. The witness also said 
that after the collision hed helped the third party to part the cars so that the third party could 
move his away. They then let Mr Ks car come to a rest against the parking bay kerb.
UKIs internal engineer reviewed everything in July 2019 and concluded that the damage to 
both cars matched the witnesss version of events. UKI told Mr K that if they didnt settle the 
claim the third party would likely take the case to court. They explained it was unlikely the 
claim would be successfully defended because of the third partys witness.
Mr K didnt accept he was liable for any damage to the third partys car. He alleged it was a 
fraudulent claim. He said the witness wasnt credible because the diagram theyd drawn to 
accompany their statement didnt match the position the cars would have needed to be in to 
cause the damage claimed for. He also questioned how the witness could have seen what 
happened from where theyd said they were. UKI told Mr K theyd undertaken checks and 
were satisfied the witness didnt have any connections with the third party.
Mr K also said he was certain his handbrake was engaged when he left the car. He 
suggested the third party had reversed into his parked car, and that had caused his to roll 
forward.
UKI didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint about their decision to settle the claim, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigators first view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. She was satisfied that UKI had looked into 
and decided the claim reasonably. She pointed out that the policy entitled UKI to take over 
and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your name, or in the 
name of any other person covered by this policy.
Mr Ks response
Mr K wrote an 11-page response to the investigators view. In summary, he said:
UKI used scare tactics to dissuade him from letting the claim go to court  they 
wanted me to just agree to their story to have easy job;
The witness statement was not consistent with the damage claimed for, my car was 
not positioned in the direction that is shown on the diagram;
The chrome plastic piece missing [from his car]  was done after the date of the 
incident, and other scratches attributed to the incident were from parking against 
hedges;
The scratches are in different directions; therefore they cannot be from one action;
The damage on the front of his car is too high to have caused the damage claimed 
to the rear of the third partys car  he said the damage on his car was 45 to 65cm 
above the ground and estimated the damage on the third partys car to be no more 
than 20 to 30cm above the ground;
The damage to the third partys car was more consistent with the driver having done 
something like reversing into a railing, than being hit by a car from behind;
Theres no image of any contact or collision of the two cars, and his request for the 
meta data from the witnesss images has been ignored;
No police reference has been provided by the third party; and
UKI abused the [sic] power as they ignored my findings and refused to re-exam [sic] 
the evidence.
Further comments from UKI
Our investigator summarised Mr Ks reasons for rejecting her view and asked UKI to 
comment. UKI said it remained satisfied that Mr Ks car had moved and that the third partys 
witness statement showed the two vehicles were together and had to be parted. Their 
engineer also explained that there are reports (on internet forums) of the electronic parking 
brake on Mr Ks model of car failing. And he said hed reviewed the dimensions of the third 
partys car and found the impact marks to be of a similar height on both vehicles. He said, In 
my opinion this incident did happen as reported by the third party. He did, however, accept 
the diagram drawn by the witness doesnt match the location of the damage found on the 
cars which was on the offside (drivers side) front of Mr Ks car and the nearside (passenger 
side) rear of the third partys car.
Our investigators second view
Our investigator noted that although the cause is not certain, Mr Ks car did move and its 
plausible this was due to handbrake failure. She said the only expert opinion available 
supports the third partys version of events, and there isnt any evidence to suggest the 
witness statement isnt credible. Overall, she said it was reasonable for UKI to rely on their 
engineers assessment and the witness statement.
Mr K didnt agree. He said if his car had been moving in the direction drawn by the witness, 
any impact would have damaged the cars in different places. He added that now hed read more about his model of car he believed people could have gone into the car and produced 
this crash themselves.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
Further information
Mr K put forward a number of points for me to consider. In particular, he highlighted the 
following part of the report completed by the field engineer who inspected his car in October 
2018:
Is the damage consistent with claim circumstances reported, is there evidence of 
multiple impacts or previous damage? No.
He said this means UKIs engineer didnt confirm that his car did any damage to the third 
partys car. Mr K feels that any comments made by UKIs engineers subsequent to this 
report should be disregarded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive only summarised the background and arguments made, I would like to 
reassure Mr K that Ive considered all the evidence both parties have produced. Having done 
so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
To begin with I should explain that its not for this service to decide who is liable for a motor 
incident  that is something only a court can decide. My role is to decide whether Mr Ks 
insurer, UKI, acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr K when settling this claim as they did. 
So, Ive thought carefully about whether UKI conducted a reasonable investigation into the 
third partys claim. And whether they complied with the terms of the policy when reaching 
their decision to settle.
In line with most motor insurance policies, the terms of Mr Ks policy allowed UKI to take 
over, defend or settle claims from persons covered by the policy. This meant that UKI were 
entitled to reach their own decision about the third partys claim.
UKI considered what had happened and took into account Mr Ks own admission that he 
found the car moved, photographic evidence provided by the third party, the statement of a 
witness, and the opinion of their engineer. It concluded that it was more likely than not that, 
Mr Ks car rolled into the rear of the third partys car while it was unattended in the car park. 
Having looked at the evidence UKI had, I cant say this conclusion was unreasonable.
I appreciate that Mr K is extremely concerned that this might be a fraudulent claim and that 
the third party either reversed into his parked car, or deliberately caused his car to move 
forward and collide with another to produce a false claim, but Ive not been provided with 
any compelling evidence to suggest that either of these scenarios is likely to have occurred.
Mr K wants the third partys witness to be cross examined, but this isnt something UKI are 
obliged to do. Im also satisfied that UKI carried out checks to satisfy themselves that the 
witness was independent of the third party.
Mr K has made a valid observation about the diagram drawn by the witness. The diagram 
depicts Mr Ks car rolling towards the centre left hand (offside) rear of the third partys car, not the right hand (nearside) rear where the damage claimed for was located. Mr K is right to 
question this aspect of the witness statement. But, when all the evidence is taken together, I 
dont think the apparent inaccuracy of this diagram should have caused UKI to come to a 
different conclusion about settling the claim.
The third partys version of events was still supported by: the fact that Mr K found his car in 
the hotel car park moved with a new scuff or scratch and a piece of broken plastic on the 
front; the witnesss account of seeing Mr Ks car rolling towards the third partys car; 
photographs showing the damage to the third partys car and the final resting position of 
Mr Ks car against a kerb and across parking bay markings; and the internal engineers 
assessment that the damage on both cars was consistent with Mr Ks car having collided 
with the nearside rear of the third partys car.
I realise Mr K feels strongly that the damage on his car is too high to have caused the 
damage claimed to the rear of the third partys car, but Im satisfied UKI have considered this 
point. UKIs engineer has reviewed the dimensions of the third partys car and feels the 
impact marks are of a similar height on both cars. As the engineer is an expert in their field, 
Ive placed more weight on their assessment of the damage here.
Mr K has highlighted that UKIs field engineer responded negatively to the question, Is the 
damage consistent with claim circumstances reported, is there evidence of multiple impacts 
or previous damage? He says this means UKIs engineer didnt confirm that his car did any 
damage to the third partys car.
Ive thought carefully about this point and I can understand why Mr K has read this part of 
the report as he has. However, the question the field engineer was answering here wasnt 
solely about consistency. The question also asked the engineer to consider evidence of 
previous damage. I asked UKI to clarify why the engineer answered no. The engineer 
explained that they were confirming they could not see any previous damage or damage 
unrelated to the incident reported. Given this response, I dont agree that this answer from 
the field engineer is significant enough to undermine the opinion reached by UKIs internal 
engineer in July 2019, or the further comments made by the internal engineer in July 2020.
I also know that Mr K is deeply suspicious that the third party hasnt been forthcoming with a 
police reference number for the incident, and that meta data hasnt been retrieved from the 
witnesss photographs. But I dont share Mr Ks suspicions when these issues are balanced 
against the weight of the other evidence. The witness statement merely refers to the third 
party speaking to airport police who did not concern themselves. So, its plausible no 
reference or incident number was given. I also dont think pursuing the meta data from the 
photographs would change the outcome as there is no dispute about the date the incident 
occurred or the location  a hotel car park.
Overall, although I understand Mr K will be disappointed, Im satisfied UKI took account of all 
the available evidence and reached a fair and reasonable decision to settle this claim. This 
was a decision UKI were entitled to take in line with the policy terms.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Beth WilcoxOmbudsman