DRN-3029302
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2009. Ms C says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her PPI.
  
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Ms Cs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. 
Ms Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Cs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax didnt need to tell Ms C 
about the commission it received - but in any event Halifax has offered to pay back some of 
the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Id like the clarify that this was called a total mortgage protection plan which also included 
life cover and critical illness insurance. As Ms C hasnt specifically complained about the life 
and critical illness cover elements, I havent included them in my decision.
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Halifax made it clear that Ms C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Ms C first took out her mortgage in 2004 and didnt take 
PPI at that time. So, I think she was aware she could have the mortgage without needing 
to also take the PPI. In addition to this, in Ms Cs original mortgage offer, it set out that 
she wasnt required to take any insurance out through Halifax. Halifax doesnt have a 
copy of the PPI application form from the time of the 2009 sale. But Halifax has 
confirmed that Ms C chose to take out disability cover only, and not the unemployment 
cover. So I think its more likely there was a discussion about her needs and that Ms C 
chose to tailor the policy based on her circumstances at the time. And I can see that she 
was then sent a letter after the sale confirming the choices she made. So, on balance, I 
think its more likely Ms C chose to take out the policy, knowing she didnt have to.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Ms C so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Ms Cs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example Ms C was eligible for the cover 
and she didnt have any means to fall back on if she was unable to work due to an 
accident or sickness, so I think she had a need for cover.
There was nothing about Ms Cs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Although Ms C says she had a medical issue some time before 
the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Halifax to have recommended it. I 
say this because while Ms C had some back pain previously, she hasnt mentioned 
having to take any time off work as a result or that she had any recurring issues in 
relation to it. So, I think its unlikely she would have expected to rely on the policy as a 
result of the back pain. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms C as I concluded above, 
or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information 
she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Ms C would have 
declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Ms Cs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think 
she would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Ms C would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Ms Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.But Ms Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Ms Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Ms Cs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms C.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but 
in any event Halifax has offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more 
it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Ms Cs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Ms C should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Ms C about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Ms C wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But in this case, Halifax has told us that the commission for Ms Cs PPI was less than half of 
what she paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Ms Cs case was less than 
half the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipI dont think Halifax needed to tell Ms C about the commission. So it follows that I dont think 
the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Halifax treated Ms C unfairly. 
This means Halifax doesnt need to pay Ms C back any of the commission she paid for the 
PPI. 
But in any event Halifax has offered to give back to Ms C some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Ms C as if it had treated her unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
    
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Ms Cs complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission 
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Ms C paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms C. 
Halifax should now make arrangements to pay Ms C if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman