DRN-2977873
The complaint
Mrs F complains about a loan from Advancis Limited, trading as Buddy Loans, (BL), which 
she says was unaffordable. 
  
What happened
BL provided Mrs F with a loan of £3,000 in October 2015. The loan was secured by a 
guarantor who would be responsible for repaying it if Mrs F failed to make her repayments. 
The interest rate was 41.16%, (49.9% APR). The loan was to be repaid over 36 months with 
one monthly repayment of £144.87, then 34 monthly repayments of £146.37 and a final 
monthly payment of £146.52. If Mrs F made each payment when it was due, shed pay 
£5,267.97 in total. From the information Ive seen, the loan hasnt yet been repaid.
Mrs F said that she didnt think she should have ever been given the loan. She was already 
in debt she couldnt afford. Shed had to borrow money to pay the loan payments. She 
couldnt afford her rent as she still had to pay the loan back. She said she was in severe 
financial hardship.
In its final response letter BL said that it had gone through an income and expenditure 
assessment with Mrs F to ascertain her affordability to repay the loan. She was asked to 
provide figures for her monthly expenses and the amounts she paid to each creditor on her 
credit file. BL noted that Mrs F had no history of any late or missed payments on her credit
file She also had no history of any defaults, county court judgements or any other kind of 
account delinquencies. Her total unsecured debt was £4,.557 which was being kept up to 
date. Mrs F also said that she was in receipt of income from a part-time job and benefit 
income which totalled £1,900. BL checked this amount with a credit reference agency, but it 
failed the check. So, BL asked for proof of Mrs Fs income in the form of a bank statement. It 
said that the bank statement showed monthly income of £1,643.02 which it used in its 
assessment. BL also cross-referenced the expense amounts Mrs F provided with the mobile 
banking screenshots she provided.
BL deducted Mrs Fs expenditure from her verified income, and this left £139.63 disposable 
income every month. It said that this meant she had sufficient affordability to be able to 
manage the repayments towards the loan and could continue to be able to meet all her 
existing creditors and monthly expenses.
Our investigators view
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He thought 
that it was irresponsible for BL to have accepted Mrs Fs application for the loan as it was 
unclear she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. This was based on the 
checks that BL carried out showing that she was already reliant on other creditors and also 
because the original income figure on Mrs Fs application was inaccurate.
BL disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that the discrepancy in Mrs Fs declared 
income compared to the income shown on her bank statement was an amount totalling 
£257. It said that Mrs Fs income came from multiple sources (part time work and various 
benefits) and it was reasonable for BL to allow Mrs F some room for human error. The 
lender also said that the income shown on Mrs Fs bank statement was sufficient to cover all 
of her current outgoings and the proposed loan repayment.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs F 
and to BL on 15 July 2021. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when BL lent to Mrs F, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged BL to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this 
meant that BL needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not 
a borrower could afford to meet their loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the 
lifetime of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so BL had to think about whether Mrs F could 
sustainably repay her loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mrs F undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for BL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mrs F. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended 
period);
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mrs Fs case, Id considered the 
following questions: - Did BL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mrs Fs loan 
application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did BL make a fair lending decision? 
Did BL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mrs Fs loan 
application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
As set out above, BL gathered some information from Mrs F about her income and 
expenses. It said that it verified these before it agreed the loan. It also carried out a credit 
check. It was also aware that Mrs F had a dependent.
Id noted that BL said in its final response letter that Mrs F had declared an income of 
£1,900, but it had verified Mrs Fs income to be £1,643.02 from screen shots of her bank 
statements. I couldnt see the amount and a breakdown of Mrs Fs declared expenses in the 
information BL provided to this Service. So, Id asked the investigator to ask BL for this, but it 
hasnt provided it. Id noted that it said in its final response letter than it had calculated that 
Mrs F had a disposable income of £139.63. So, it appeared that the amount BL used for  
Mrs Fs expenses in its assessment was £1,503.39 (after deducting £139.63 from £1,643.02) 
and that this amount included BLs monthly loan repayment of around £146.
Mrs F had provided BL with screen shots of part of her bank statement for September 2015 
which showed her income, cash withdrawals and a few expenses. Id noted from the 
screenshots provided to this Service that Mrs Fs total income comprising part time income, 
housing benefit, child benefit, working tax credit and child tax credit totalled £1,702.85 which 
was slightly more than BL had calculated. BL also said that it had checked Mrs Fs expenses 
on the screen shots but very few essential living costs (supermarket, fast food and a TV 
package) were shown on the screenshots provided to this Service. It didnt appear that the 
screen shots showed Mrs Fs complete spending for the month. So, I couldnt see that BL 
had verified Mrs Fs actual spending.
I was concerned that BL appeared to have mostly relied on Mrs Fs statement of her 
expenses without verifying them. CONC 5.3.1(4) said: 
If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment 
required under CONC 5.2.2R (1): 
(a) The firm should take account of actual current income or expenditure and reasonably 
expected future income or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate to do so) where it is 
reasonably foreseeable that it would differ from actual current income or expenditure over 
the anticipated repayment period of the agreement; 
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers 
income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the customer; 
So, I thought in Mrs Fs circumstances, it would have been proportionate to have verified her 
actual expenditure. 
Id also reviewed BLs credit check. Id noted that this showed that Mrs F had four active 
credit accounts and that all of these had been opened in the six months prior to the loan 
application. Shed borrowed almost £5,200 in that time. In the previous three months Mrs F 
had obtained credit from two credit providers totalling around £2,869 which suggested a 
relatively recent need for credit. The total monthly credit repayments according to the checks 
were £226.BL was also likely to be aware that its credit checks might not have revealed the full extent of 
Mrs Fs credit commitments.
Altogether I thought BLs credit checks ought to have caused it concerns as I thought they 
suggested that Mrs F was likely struggling to manage her money. This was shown by       
Mrs Fs recent need for a relatively significant amount of credit shown by the four loans shed 
borrowed within six months with the most recent loan for £2,000 being taken out just two 
months prior to her loan application. Id noted from Mrs Fs credit report that this was from a 
high cost credit provider. 
So, given the amount being lent, the repayment amounts and the length of the loan term, I 
thought BL should reasonably have taken steps to build a clearer picture about Mrs Fs 
finances before providing her with an expensive loan in order to satisfy itself that Mrs F could 
sustainably repay the loan over a 36 months period. She was, after all, committing to repay 
£5,267.97 over that period.
So overall, I didnt think the checks BL had carried out on this occasion were reasonable and 
proportionate. 
But that in itself didnt mean that Mrs Fs complaint should succeed. I also needed to be 
persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have likely shown BL 
that Mrs F couldn't sustainably afford the loan. So, Id looked at Mrs Fs bank statements and 
credit report to see what better checks would have shown BL.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did BL make a fair 
lending decision? 
Mrs F had provided her credit report and bank statements from around the time shed 
applied for the loan. I wasnt suggesting here that these were the checks that BL should 
have done. But I thought looking at these gave me the best picture of what the lender was 
likely to have seen had it made better checks. Had it sought verification of Mrs Fs actual 
spending before lending, I thought BL wouldve been in a better position to understand     
Mrs Fs financial situation before it decided to lend to her. 
Id reviewed Mrs Fs bank statements for July, August and September 2015. Its clear from 
these statements that her total income varied significantly each month, and she didnt always 
have enough income to enable her to repay the expenses amount of £1503.39 used by BL. 
Whilst in September 2015, her income totalled around £1,700, in July 2015 her income 
totalled around £1,200, and in August 2015 her income totalled around £957. 
Id noted that Mrs F had declared a total income of £1,900 to BL which it disputed. As the 
salary amount of around £483 shed received on 1 October 2015 was around £230 more 
than the salary amount shed received in September 2015, this would have made her 
projected total income for October 2015 (based on the same total benefit income amount as 
shed received in September 2015 according to her bank statements) to be around £1,900. 
So, I couldnt safely say that Mrs Fs declared total income of £1,900 was inaccurate at the 
time of her loan application. 
But it was also clear from the bank statements Id reviewed that there were many payments 
made to and/or received from around 16 named individuals of which nine individuals had 
made and/or received payments of over £50. Id asked the investigator to ask Mrs F about 
these payments. She said that the payments were made to or received from family and 
friends who lent her money weekly to help her and she would pay them back when she got 
her benefits. I could also see that the high cost credit loan of £2,000 that Mrs F received in 
August 2015 was likely to have been used to repay such individuals. She repaid these individuals a total of £2,174 in August 2015, but still needed to borrow a total of £872 from 
them that month. In September 2015, shed received a further £1,239 from these individuals 
and repaid them a total of £934. I could see that this significant borrowing from family and 
friends also occurred in July 2015 and continued after Mrs F received BLs loan. It appeared 
that Mrs F was reliant on borrowing from friends and family to supplement her income. In my 
view, this information demonstrated that Mrs F was in no position to have been able to 
sustainably repay the loan.
The statements also showed fluctuating payment amounts for Mrs Fs living costs. Mrs F 
said that her rent was £695 but she was behind with her rent payments. I could see that in    
August 2015 shed managed to pay her rent, but she could only pay £200 towards her rent in 
September 2015. Mrs F also said she was behind with payments for utilities, phone, council 
tax etc. Id not seen any payments for utilities in the bank statements for August and 
September 2015. But I could see that Mrs Fs credit report showed her utility payments being 
in arrears in early 2015, and then of unknown status from July 2015 onwards. The account 
was ultimately defaulted. In addition, there appeared to be payments for phone and council 
tax shown in the August 2015 bank statements, but not in those for September 2015. So, I 
thought it was possible that these accounts were in arrears at the time of her loan 
application.
So, I thought if BL had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks, it was likely 
it would have discovered that Mrs Fs finances were chaotic and her income amounts 
fluctuated to the extent that it was unlikely that she would be able to sustainably meet her 
repayments for this loan over the lifetime of the agreement. And so I didnt think BL had 
treated Mrs F fairly when it agreed to lend to her.
Id noted that BL said that Mrs F had enough disposable income to afford her contractual 
instalments. But it seemed to me that BL was focussing on its calculation of whether the loan 
was affordable for Mrs F on a pounds and pence basis. But the lender was required to 
establish whether Mrs F could sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the 
loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The 
loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a consumer could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it didnt automatically follow that this was the case. 
And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their payments, it 
followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to sustainably make their repayments if it was on notice that they 
were unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Subject to any further representations by Mrs F or BL, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold Mrs Fs complaint and say that BL should put things right as shown 
below.
Putting things right  what BL needs to do
I understand that the loan hasnt been fully repaid. In order to put Mrs F back into the 
position she would have been had the loan not been agreed for her, BL needs to ensure that 
Mrs F only repays the principal borrowed on the loan. In other words, Mrs F shouldnt repay 
more than the capital amount of £3,000 she borrowed on the loan. So, BL needs to:
a. Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset; 
b. Consider all payments made by Mrs F as payments towards the capital amount; 
c. If Mrs F has made payments above this capital amount then these should be refunded to 
her, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*; d. If there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, then BL 
needs to treat Mrs F sympathetically and fairly, which might include coming to an 
arrangement about how best to repay this; 
e. Remove any negative information from Mrs Fs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires BL to take off tax from this interest. BL must
give Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
If BL has sold the outstanding debt on the loan, it should buy it back if it is able to do so or 
chooses to do so and then take the steps listed above. If BL isnt able to buy the debt back 
or chooses not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to bring about the above 
steps.
Mrs F responded to my provisional decision to say that she was happy with it.
BL hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Mrs F is happy with my provisional decision and BL has given me nothing further 
to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint and require BL to pay Mrs F some 
compensation and take the steps as set out above under the heading Putting things right  
what BL needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint I order 
Advancis Limited, trading as Buddy Loans, to pay Mrs F some compensation and take the 
steps as set out above under the heading Putting things right  what BL needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman