DRN-2640633
The complaint
Mr A complained to TSB Bank plc as he had problems receiving a replacement debit card. 
What happened
Mr A lost his debit card on 16 November 2020. He contacted TSB to order a replacement 
debit card and was told that he would have a new card in 2-3 days. 
Mr A hadnt received his replacement debit card by 21 November 2020. He rang TSB again 
and he was told that the replacement card hadnt been ordered on the previous call. The 
new call handler said they would order Mr A a replacement card and it would arrive in 2-3 
days. Mr A complained and was paid £50 for distress and inconvenience and £2 for the 
phone call, so a total of £52. This was credited to his account on 21 November 2020. The 
complaint was closed down and a summary resolution letter was sent.
As Mr A still hadnt received his replacement card by 25 November 2020 he rang TSB again. 
He was told by the call handler that his replacement card hadnt been ordered from the 
previous call handler. Mr A was told to refer his complaint to our service, which the call 
handler said may help escalate things.
Mr A says he had a period of time without access to his account. He didnt have access to 
internet banking and was shielding, so couldnt go to his local branch to access his funds. Mr 
A says he had to borrow money from family and friends, which left him very unhappy.
TSB explained that the problem originated from the type of account Mr A held with them. 
TSB say the account, an under 19s account shouldve been changed when Mr A reached 
18. TSB are unable to explain why the account wasnt changed. There was also a block on 
the account which was a TSB error and so a new card couldnt be ordered.
The account has since been changed to a different type of account and a new debit card 
was ordered for Mr A on 15 December 2020.
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint and said the £52 compensation that TSB paid 
wasnt sufficient enough as Mr A had been without a debit card, through no fault of his own 
for a month. The investigator said it would be fair for TSB to pay Mr A an extra £100.
TSB disagreed with this and thought their original payment of £52 was sufficient so asked for 
an Ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB admitted that they have let Mr A down. As Mr A has now received his new debit card 
then all thats left for me to decide is whether the £52 TSB paid Mr A reflects the impact that 
the events had on him.  
Im not persuaded that the £52 TSB paid Mr A (£50 for distress and inconvenience and £2 
for telephone calls) fairly reflects the impact the events would have on him and Ill explain 
why.
Mr A was told on the first call that a new card would be ordered. But he was told on the 
second and third calls that the previous call handler hadnt ordered Mr A a replacement debit 
card. This will have been frustrating for Mr A to hear.
As Mr A was told each time that the new card would arrive in 2-3 days he borrowed money 
from family and friends, thinking he would be able to repay them back when he had his new 
card. But this didnt happen as each time he was expecting his new card it didnt arrive and 
he had to keep ringing TSB to chase up his request. This will have been upsetting to Mr A 
that through no fault of his own that he was having to keep chasing TSB.
Ive thought about what TSB has said about the block on Mr As card and his account type 
shouldve been changed when Mr A was 18. But, these were errors on TSBs part, so I dont 
think its fair that Mr A should have experienced delays in receiving a new card when he was 
not responsible for these errors.
As these issues took a month to resolve then it will have been inconvenient for Mr A to go 
without a debit card for so long. To summarise, he was without access to funds in his 
account, had no debit card for a month and he needed to borrow from friends and family. So 
Im satisfied that £50 for distress and inconvenience (and £2 for the telephone call he made) 
doesnt reflect the impact the events had on Mr A. And so it follows I will be asking TSB to 
put things right. 
Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested that TSB pay Mr A a further £100 which I think is fair in the 
circumstances. This reflects the impact on Mr A for having to keep calling TSB for a 
replacement card and being without a debit card for a month through no fault of his own. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. TSB Bank plc should pay Mr A a further £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman