DRN-3148868
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice he says he received in 2015 to transfer a personal pension 
to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). His transfer proceeds were invested in Dolphin 
Capital, a German property development scheme that has since failed. He says the advice 
to transfer wasnt suitable because the proposed investment was too high risk for him. He 
holds Wellington Court Financial Services Limited responsible.
What happened
In 2015, Mr S transferred the benefits he had in a personal pension to The Orbis SIPP 
administered by Guinness Mahon Trust Corporation Limited (GMTC). He says he was 
advised to transfer by Wellington Court.
Mr S complained to Wellington Court in 2019. He said, in brief, that Wellington Courts 
advice had been negligent because the Dolphin Capital investment was too high risk for him. 
The investment now looks to have little value. Mr S says Wellington Court is responsible for 
his loss. In response, Wellington Court said Mr S has never been its customer, so it has no 
case to answer. It says any paperwork linking Mr S to Wellington Court is fraudulent.
Mr S referred his complaint to us. Our investigator said that an advice fee was taken from 
Mr Ss SIPP and paid to Wellington Court. He thought this was enough evidence to show 
Wellington Court was responsible for Mr Ss transfer and, therefore, that this was a 
complaint that we could look at.
As Wellington Court maintains it has never dealt with Mr S, the matter was passed to me for 
a decision. In October 2021, I issued a provisional decision in which I outlined in detail the 
evidence that was available to me. I repeat what I said here.
Review of Evidence
In making my provisional decision I will be referring to the following:
1. Documents provided by Mr S and GMTC
The following were provided by Mr S and GMTC:
I. An undated letter to GMTC, sent on Wellington Court headed paper, applying to 
the Orbis SIPP on Mr Ss behalf. The letter said it was enclosing an application 
for the SIPP and an invoice. It was date-stamped as being received by the PAN 
Group (administrators and trustees) on 20 February 2015. The letter is signed on 
behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court. The signature is indecipherable.
II. The Orbis SIPP New Application Checklist. This was a series of tick boxes of 
the various documents (such as a SIPP application form and transfer discharge 
form) that the adviser had to check had been provided for the transfer to proceed. 
Like the covering letter, this was signed on behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court 
rather than by Mr P himself. The signature is indecipherable but looks to be the 
same as the one on the covering letter. Under the signature, Mr Ps name has 
been printed by hand. Mr Ps first name was spelt incorrectly at first but was then 
corrected. An incorrect Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) reference number was 
also provided  the number used was actually Wellington Courts Irish company 
registration number. The form was signed on 16 February 2015.
III. The Orbis SIPP application form, signed by Mr S on 26 January 2015.
IV. The Orbis SIPP Important Risk Notices document. This was a nine-page 
document outlining the various risks of the SIPP. It was signed by Mr S on 
26 January 2015.
V. An Adviser Remuneration Form. This set out the advice fee that Mr S had 
agreed to pay Wellington Court. It said the following:
I have appointed [Mr P] of Wellington Court Financial Services Ltd ("the 
Company") to provide me with advice in relation to The Orbis SIPP (the SIPP') 
and any related investment advice in respect of assets held within the SIPP
Initial Fee Renewal Fee Fixed Fee (£)
Transfers into the 
Scheme1% to a maximum of 
£800 plus VATNIL NIL
Single Premium NIL NIL NIL
Regular Premium NIL NIL NIL
I confirm my agreement to these charges and authorise Guinness Mahon Trust 
Corporation to debit the fees from the SIPP Bank Account and pay them on my 
behalf, this agreement replaces any existing agreement
Mr S signed the form on 26 January 2015.
VI. An Orbis SIPP Transfer Details Information Forms. This set out the details of 
Mr Ss transfer, including the policy number of the pension he was transferring 
from and its transfer value. This was signed by Mr S on 26 January 2015.
VII.An investment instruction form addressed from Mr S to GMTC instructing it to 
invest 100% of funds in his SIPP in Dolphin Capital, signed by Mr S on 
26 January 2015.
VIII. Various documents from Mr Ss transferring pension provider.
IX. A policy schedule for the Orbis SIPP showing a start date of 6 March 2015.
X. A Dolphin Capital loan note offer document setting out the details of the proposed 
£36,400 investment in Dolphin Capital in a loan note for five years. This was 
signed by Mr S (and a witness) on 10 March 2015.
XI. A welcome letter from Dolphin Capital addressed to Mr S dated 2 April 2015 
including the loan note certificate, which had an issue date of 19 March 2015.
XII.A SIPP bank account statement dated 1 May 2019 showing Mr S received 
interest payments of £1,821 on his investment in Dolphin Capital every six 
months from September 2015 to March 2019.2. Mr Ss recollections
Mr S says that he was cold-called by someone, which led to a meeting being 
arranged with Wellington Court. He says the adviser recommended he transfer his 
pension and invest in Dolphin Capital. Mr S says a risk assessment was carried out 
which came out as being low-medium, which he agreed with. He says he was told 
that investing in Dolphin Capital was consistent with his attitude to risk, so he was 
happy to proceed on that basis.
3. Information from Mr Ss previous pension provider
Mr Ss previous scheme provided information as part of the transfer and in relation to 
our investigations. This information shows that, amongst other things, Mr Ss pension 
was previously invested in funds with a relatively high equity weighting and that he 
likely dealt with unregulated introducers in relation to his transfer. However, it should 
be noted that there is no documentation linking the unregulated introducers with the 
pension transfer and investment in Dolphin Capital.
4. Documents from Wellington Court
Ill come on to what Wellington Court has said in response to Mr Ss complaint later in 
my decision. But its worth pointing out at this stage that it hasnt provided any 
documents in relation to Mr Ss transfer because it says it didnt advise Mr S and that 
Mr S has never been a client of Wellington Court.
Wellington Court has, however, said (in relation to a different complaint) that it did 
some consultancy work on behalf of GMTC in relation to the transfer of pensions into 
the Orbis SIPP. It says the work was limited to checking files to ensure there were no 
transfers of safeguarded benefits into the SIPP because GMTC didnt want to receive 
that type of transfer.
We asked Wellington Court to provide us with a copy of the consultancy agreement it 
had with GMTC and further details about its work  for instance the fees it earned  
but it hasnt done so. It has, however, said its regulator, the FCA, contacted it in 2016 
in relation to some GMTC pension cases which led to it meeting with the FCA on 
10 August 2016. The attendees at that meeting were Mr P from Wellington Court and 
two representatives from the FCA. I havent included the notes provided in relation to 
this meeting as ultimately they are not material to the outcome of this complaint.
5. Payment to Wellington Court in relation to Mr S
Mr S transferred £37,502.10 from his personal pension to the Orbis SIPP on
6 March 2015. A 1% fee on this amount (along the lines of the initial fee in the 
Adviser Remuneration Form described above) would equal £375.02. According to his 
SIPP transaction statement, this exact amount was taken from Mr Ss transfer value 
on 30 March 2015. This was recorded on his SIPP statement as a Wellington IFA 
Fee. I can see the £375.02 was paid from the SIPP deposit account (with Metro 
Bank) to the GMTC client account (with Bank N) on 30 March 2015. This amount 
was included with 31 other 1% fees for other individuals and the total amount, which 
came to £9,239.74, was then paid from the GMTC client account to Wellington 
Courts bank account (with Bank H) on 30 March 2015.
6. Evidence from similar casesI am aware of a significant number of other complaints about Wellington Court which 
have very similar features to Mr Ss case. Whilst Im deciding here on whats fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, for context I think its 
reasonable to consider the evidence from these other cases alongside the evidence 
that has been collected in relation to Mr Ss case. Specifically:
I. GMTC has provided screen-shots showing the entries made into an advisers 
portal for some transfers. The portal records the details of the individual 
transferring (name, address, details of transferring scheme and so on) as well as 
the advisers name  Mr P  and the name of an introducer.
II. Paperwork from other complaints show a number of introducer firms were 
involved in these transfers.
III. The recollections of the complainants in other cases havent been particularly 
detailed.
IV. Other payments to Wellington Court
Information provided by GMTC in relation to other complaints shows that 1% 
payments along the same lines as Mr Ss were made to the same Wellington 
Court bank account in relation to many other individuals, including (but not 
necessarily limited to) the following:
£9,239.74 on 30 March 2015 in relation to thirty-two transferred policies 
(for 22 individuals  some individuals transferred more than one policy). 
The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM ADVISER FEES. This payment included Mr Ss 
£375.02 fee.
£8,588.76 on 24 April 2015 (the number of policies and individuals this 
payment relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear 
on Wellington Courts statement was OR ADVISER FEES.£9,503.33 on 
20 May 2015 in relation to 31 transferred policies (for 19 individuals). The 
payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement 
was ORBIS SIPP FEES.
£8,881.16 on 16 June 2015 in relation to 24 transferred policies (for 21 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£11,423.77 on 26 June 2015 in relation to 25 transferred policies (for 17 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was GM ADVISER FEES.
£7,731.07 on 15 July 2015 in relation to 23 transferred policies (for 18 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was ORBIS CLIENT FEES.
£4,762.19 on 27 July 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (for 12 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was GM IFA FEE.£3,091.06 on 5 August 2015 in relation to 8 transferred policies (for eight 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£4,624.87 on 18 August in relation to 12 transferred policies (the number 
of individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to 
appear (and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA 
FEES.
£6,573.32 on 25 August 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (the 
number of individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference 
that was to appear (and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was 
GM IFA FEES.
£12,672.03 on 7 October 2015 in relation to 46 transferred policies (for 31 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
The above is based on information provided in Mr Ss case and other similar 
cases. Its not necessarily comprehensive. A quick review shows that there are 
no entries for September 2015 for instance. So I think its fair to say the above 
shows that at least £87,000 was paid from GMTC to the one Wellington Court 
bank account in relation to over 200 transferred policies in a six month period. 
Its entirely possible that payments were happening before and after this six 
month period too.
For completeness, it should be noted that we have the records for the payments 
being made from GMTC but we dont have the records for all those payments 
being received by Wellington Court other than for the £6,573.32 payment on 
25 August 2015 and the £4,624.87 payment on 18 August 2015. This is because 
Wellington Court has only provided us with heavily redacted bank statements. 
I see no plausible reason why GMTCs payments wouldnt have all reached 
Wellington Court. So, Ill proceed on that basis, particularly as Wellington Court 
has already had the opportunity to dispute this evidence in relation to other 
cases in which decisions have been issued and has offered no explanation for 
these payments.
What did I conclude in my provisional decision?
In my provisional decision, I acknowledged that there were a number of question marks in 
relation to Wellington Courts involvement in the transfers. Most notably there is the absence 
of evidence to show there was any direct contact between Mr S (and others like him) and 
Wellington Court, a lack of the usual paperwork one would expect to find if advice had been 
given (a fact-find, suitability report and so on), unexplained errors in the paperwork that did 
exist and no letters or emails between GMTC and Wellington Court in relation to the transfer 
of Mr Ss pension (and other pensions).
However, I went on to conclude that Wellington Court had been paid a 1% advisory fee in 
relation to Mr Ss transfer and many other transfers. I came to this conclusion because the 
documentary evidence showed Mr S (and others like him) agreed to pay a 1% advisory fee 
in relation to the Orbis SIPP, and the investments intended to be held in the SIPP. I thought 
the documentary evidence persuasively showed that the 1% fees were paid to Wellington 
Court. These fees were, in aggregate, substantial. Because Wellington Court didnt query 
them at the time, and didnt provide a persuasive argument for why it didnt query them at the time, I concluded that the fees werent fraudulent  as Wellington Court had argued  but 
were in line with what it was expecting for its involvement in the transfers in question. 
I therefore provisionally concluded that Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business 
relating to the transfer of pensions  including Mr Ss pension  to the Orbis SIPP. 
I went on to provisionally conclude that Mr Ss complaint was in the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. I was satisfied that Mr S was an eligible complainant, the 
activities in question were carried on from an establishment in the UK, Wellington Court is a 
regulated business and Mr S brought his complaint within the relevant time limits. I was also 
satisfied that the activities complained about fall within our jurisdiction because they relate to 
acts or omissions in carrying on the regulated activities of advising on and arranging 
pensions and investments.
With regards to the merits of Mr Ss complaint, I noted Wellington Court didnt appear to 
have done anything in return for the 1% advice fee it was paid in relation to Mr Ss transfer. 
I didnt comment on whether this was deliberate on Wellington Courts part  that is, it knew 
it had to provide advice but chose not to; or whether it was an oversight on its part  that is, it 
didnt realise it should have provided advice. I didnt make a finding on this because the key 
point was whether the transfer was suitable.
And on this point, I was satisfied that the transfer wasnt suitable because Mr S ended up 
investing in Dolphin Capital, which was a non-mainstream, high risk, unregulated 
investment. I didnt think this investment was suitable for Mr S. I also didnt think Mr S would 
have needed to transfer his pension to a SIPP, given the costs involved in doing so. All 
things considered, therefore, I didnt think the transfer was suitable.
I provisionally upheld Mr Ss complaint and set out what I thought Wellington Court should 
do to put things right. 
I invited both parties to respond. Mr S accepted the decision and had no further comments. 
Wellington Court made a number of comments, which I address below.
What did Wellington Court say in response?
Wellington Court made the following points in response to my provisional decision, which 
Ive summarised below.
Mr Ps consultancy work for GMTC was explained to the FCA in 2016. The FCA has 
not provided any feedback on their investigation into GMTC or the consultancy work 
Mr P carried out.
Further details about the meeting with the FCA and the evidence provided in relation 
to the work carried out by Mr P can be provided by the FCA.
All payments received from GMTC were for administrative consultancy work carried 
out by Mr P and nothing else. 
It did not know that 1% was calculated, allocated, deducted from GMTCs client 
account and purportedly paid to it  GMTCs accounting system is controlled by 
GMTC and not Wellington Court.
The fact that some customers say they did not speak to Mr P or know of Wellington 
Courts involvement in the transfer shows that Wellington Court was not involved.
If Wellington Court had genuinely advised customers to transfer their pensions, it 
wouldve expected GMTC to provide it with the customary acknowledgements and 
associated documents that go alongside the setting up of a new client SIPP. 
Wellington Court received no such documentation in relation to Mr Ss transfer or to other clients, which suggests GMTC was an accomplice to the fraud it believes was 
taking place. 
When Wellington Court is appointed as an adviser it receives regular remuneration 
statements stating the client name, policy number and the fee charged  no such 
documentation was sent to it by GMTC for the clients it allegedly advised to transfer 
their pensions.
The FCA or our service should have investigated who Dolphin Capital was paying 
commission to for placing the investments.
Wellington Court maintains that Mr Ss claim against Wellington Court is fraudulent and that 
it has been framed. It said it would be referring the matter to the police unless the case was 
withdrawn. It added that the FCA was aware of GMTCs clients making fraudulent claims 
and asked Mr S to apologise for making the claim against it.
For completeness, I have also considered Wellington Courts previous response to 
provisional decisions issued on other cases. Its arguments werent specific to any particular 
case but were intended to apply to a number of similar cases. The response contained, in 
aggregate, over 50 bullet points. Because a number of its comments overlap, I think its 
reasonable to group and summarise Wellington Courts response as follows:
1. The Financial Ombudsman Service hasnt undertaken a thorough investigation into the 
complaint and the provisional decisions include findings that are unwarranted and not 
based on the evidence. The Financial Ombudsman Service is biased and is trying to 
frame Wellington Court.
2. Evidence hasnt been shared; a full disclosure would be required in court.
3. There are no grounds for complaint because the complainants have never been clients 
of Wellington Court. Any transfer paperwork that refers to Wellington Court is fraudulent 
and paperwork that looks to have originated from Wellington Court has been cloned. 
Complainants testimony does little to prove Wellington Courts involvement and 
Wellington Court has testimony from at least one client that says it didnt advise him and 
had no role in arranging his pension. No evidence has been provided of any direct 
contact between Wellington Court and the complainants or Dolphin Capital. 
4. The adviser on the paperwork  Mr P from Wellington Court  was not a registered 
advisor and therefore couldnt give advice on the transfers in question.
5. GMTC accepted business directly from individuals or from unauthorised advisers and 
introducers. 
6. GMTC, and its associates, were running a scam. The FCA should have known this and 
advised Wellington Court and the Financial Ombudsman Service of this at the time. 
GMTC and others are now involved in a mammoth cover-up of what happened.
7. Wellington Court isnt responsible for the operational failures of GMTC or its regulatory 
supervision. It is being held liable because it is the last man standing. It may be the 
victim of a turf war going on between various regulatory agencies. It has been singled 
out for being an Irish company. 
8. The Financial Ombudsman Service has failed to recognise the obligations of GMTC, in 
particular in relation to undertaking due diligence on the underlying assets held in its 
SIPPs.9. Because the complainants werent clients of Wellington Court, it cant comment on their 
previous pension arrangements, or their attitude to risk and needs.
10. Wellington Courts advisory involvement with GMTC was limited to three clients, the files 
for which have previously been given to the FCA. It makes little sense that Wellington 
Court has files for these three clients yet doesnt have files for other clients that it 
supposedly advised.
11. Wellington Court wouldnt have risked its reputation and licence by supporting 
unregulated activities.
12. The claims management companies (CMCs) that represent many complainants are 
bringing unwarranted complaints for commercial gain and are being encouraged by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to do so. The Financial Ombudsman Service has failed 
to report fraudulent activities of CMCs and their clients to the police. 
13. To resolve matters, Wellington Court has proposed the following:
A conference call with the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigation to be conducted by Wellington Court on the Financial 
Ombudsman Services behalf, for an agreed fee.  
14. Wellington Court reserves the right to take legal action against the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and any other parties.
Wellington Court has also provided telephone notes and emails which, in its view, support its 
position that the complainants cant recollect, and therefore couldnt have been clients of, 
Wellington Court.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, this means Ive considered everything Wellington Court has 
said, although I will limit my findings to those areas that I now consider to be relevant to the 
outcome of the complaint and the process by which that outcome has been reached.
Interpreting the evidence
My starting point here, as it was in my provisional decision, is the evidence that points to 
Wellington Court being paid advisory fees in relation to a number of transfers to GMTC in 
2015. I outlined this evidence in my provisional decision. Ive repeated it in the background 
section above. To recap, the evidence was four-fold.
First, Mr S and many others signed an Adviser Remuneration Form which appointed Mr P 
of Wellington Court to provide advice in relation to The Orbis SIPP and any related 
investments held in that SIPP. The fee for that advice was recorded as being 1%.
Second, Mr Ss SIPP statement shows that a 1% Wellington IFA Fee was taken from the 
transfer value of his pension on 30 March 2015. This fee was then paid from the SIPP 
deposit account to the GMTC client account on 30 March 2015. This amount was included 
with 31 other 1% fees for other individuals and the total amount, which came to £9,239.74, 
was then paid from the GMTC client account to Wellington Courts bank account on 30 March 2015. The £9,239.74 appeared on Wellington Courts bank statement as GM 
ADVISER FEES. 
Third, 1% fees along the same lines were paid from GMTC to Wellington Court in relation to 
a large number of other transfers to the Orbis SIPP over a six month period in 2015. 
Payments of at least £87,000 relating to at least 200 policies were paid in this period. 
Fourth, Wellington didnt at any point query the above payments despite them being 
substantial. 
My view was, and remains, that this evidence is critical to the outcome of the complaint. It 
shows that many individuals  Mr S included  agreed to pay Wellington Court 1% of their 
transfer value for advice on the Orbis SIPP and their proposed investments. And it 
persuasively shows that Wellington Court received 1% payments in relation to those 
transfers. Wellington Court didnt query why it was receiving these fees at the time. 
Wellington Court says that it did not know that 1% was calculated, deducted from GMTCs 
client and paid to it, saying that GMTCs accounting system was controlled by it and not 
Wellington Court. But the fees appeared on Wellington Courts bank statement as GM IFA 
FEES (or something similar) which I think is clear. The payments were all made to the same 
bank account. And the amounts are significant  at least £87,000 in a period of just six 
months. I dont see how these payments could have been overlooked, which suggests to me 
that they werent overlooked but were, instead, recognised payments in relation to work it 
had completed. If they were genuinely unexpected, I would have expected Wellington Court 
to have investigated the receipt of such substantial advice fees.
I appreciate Wellington Court has pointed to the consultancy work it did with GMTC. It has 
most recently said that all payments received from GMTC were for administrative 
consultancy work carried out by Mr P and nothing else. It isnt clear whether Wellington 
Court means it is confirming the fees I outlined in my provisional decision and again above 
were for the consultancy work it says Mr P carried out for GMTC, or whether it is simply 
confirming that it did receive money from GMTC for consultancy work.
Either way, Im not persuaded the fees Ive mentioned above were expected as payment for 
the consultancy work carried out for GMTC by Mr P. I say this because theres a clear audit 
trail that shows the payments werent for consultancy work but were instead 1% advice fees 
for particular policies that had been transferred. Wellington Court hasnt provided us with any 
details of the fees it earned for its consultancy work and the bank statements it did provide 
(which would have shown the full pattern of payments Wellington Court received from 
GMTC) have been too heavily redacted to allow much insight. In my provisional decision, 
I did invite Wellington Court to provide unredacted bank statements for the period under 
review but it hasnt done so. So whilst its possible that Wellington Court was also receiving 
fees for its consultancy work, I find it hard to believe that Wellington Court couldve mistaken 
the substantial fees outlined above, which were paid around the same time and had similar 
payment references, were for administrative services carried out by Mr P.
Also as I said in my provisional decision, other financial advice firms that did similar 
consultancy work in relation to transfers to GMTC charged a fixed fee of £30 per case. So 
for Wellington Court to have earned enough to have reasonably overlooked some payments 
from GMTC, it would have to have worked an unfeasibly large number of cases to make the 
numbers add up. Alternatively, it could have charged more than £30 per case. But even with 
this assumption, the numbers dont look feasible. A charge of £100 per case (unlikely in itself 
to just check whether a pension had safeguarded benefits) would still require 870 cases in 
order to produce an income in the region of £87,000.In short, whilst Wellington Court may have earned additional sums for its consultancy work, 
its not plausible that the fees it earned for such work could, realistically, have caused it to 
overlook the 1% advisory fees it was also receiving from GMTC.
So its reasonable for me to conclude from this that the fees were in line with what 
Wellington Court had been expecting from GMTC for its role in the transfers. Tying all this 
together, Im satisfied Wellington Court was paid a 1% advice fee for the transfer of Mr Ss 
pension and many others like it.
Wellington Court says responsibility lies with GMTC and its associates (specifically 
unregulated firms). It says it is obvious that GMTC, and its associates, were running a 
scam and are now involved in a cover-up. It says any paperwork that links Wellington Court 
to the transfers is fraudulent, including any paperwork that looks to have originated from 
Wellington Court  which it says has been cloned. And it says GMTC being in administration 
should speak for itself.
In response, I come back to what Ive said previously which is that Wellington Court received 
substantial payments from GMTC in relation to a large number of transfers. If Wellington 
Court had been the victim of fraudulent activity, I would have expected it to have queried 
these payments at the time given they were substantial and, in Wellington Courts view, 
unexpected. The source of those payments was clear too  they were marked as coming 
from GMTC  so I dont see any practical reason why it wouldnt have been able to raise the 
issue with GMTC or the police. The fact that it didnt do so leads me to conclude the 
payments werent fraudulent but were, instead, in line with what Wellington Court was 
expecting to be paid for its involvement in the transfers. 
Wellington Court also points out that theres no evidence of there being any direct contact 
between it and the complainants (Mr S included). To support its case, it points to the 
recollections of the complainants, many of whom say they cannot remember dealing with 
Wellington Court. It also refers to one of its clients who says Wellington Court had no 
involvement in his pension with GMTC. 
I covered this in my provisional decision, where I acknowledged that there wasnt any 
paperwork sent to Wellington Court in relation to Mr Ss transfer, or any other transfer as far 
as I was aware. And I made the point that based on the recollections of the complainants, 
Mr S and others like him dealt primarily with unregulated introducers and much of this was 
over the phone. So I can understand why Mr S, and others, cant recall much, if anything, 
about Wellington Court. However, this doesnt preclude the possibility of Wellington Courts 
involvement in the transfers.
It is not uncommon for an introducer to drive the process of investing in a particular scheme. 
And introducers often carry out the majority of the fact-finding directly with the customer 
before involving a regulated adviser to complete the process. In some instances, customers 
will not meet with or speak to the firm providing the advice. So I dont think that Mr S not 
having spoken with a representative of Wellington Court, or being unaware of its 
involvement, is particularly unusual here.
As I have said above, in order to proceed with the transfer, GMTC wanted the involvement of 
an independent financial adviser (IFA) before accepting any transfers. The paperwork 
described above was evidence enough for GMTC to have accepted a transfer as coming 
through an IFA  Wellington Court. As a result, the transfers went ahead and the 1% initial 
advice fee was taken from each transfer value  Mr Ss included  and paid to (and accepted 
by) Wellington Court. So whatever the extent of Wellington Courts contact with Mr S, it was 
still nonetheless engaged in an advisory capacity in relation to his transfer and subsequent 
investment in Dolphin Capital  and the transfer of many other pensions too. The absence of any of the usual paperwork one would expect from an advice process, and the absence of 
substantive testimony about meetings with Wellington Court, doesnt change any of this. It 
just means Wellington Court didnt properly advise Mr S, and others, despite being paid to 
do so.
I agree with Wellington Court when it says some of the transfer paperwork looks unusual. 
For instance, the letter that was sent to GMTC enclosing Mr Ss transfer papers was undated 
and signed on behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court rather than by Mr P himself. The 
signature on that letter is indecipherable. Likewise, the Orbis SIPP New Application 
Checklist was signed on Mr Ps behalf rather than by Mr P himself. The signature is again 
indecipherable (but looks to be the same as the one on the covering letter). Under the 
signature, Mr Ps first name was spelt incorrectly at first but was then corrected. And an 
incorrect FCA reference number was also provided.
So, as I said in my provisional decision, there are question marks here. However, as I also 
went on to say in my provisional decision, my role is to make findings of fact based on the 
available evidence in order to establish whether this is a complaint the Financial 
Ombudsman Service can consider against Wellington Court and, if so, whether its fair and 
reasonable to uphold that complaint. My role isnt to speculate beyond that. Taking all the 
above into consideration, I see no reason to change my findings of fact, which were  and 
remain  as follows:
Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business relating to the transfer of 
pensions to the Orbis SIPP. This includes the transfer of Mr Ss pension.
Wellington Courts actions are not consistent with it being the victim of fraudulent 
activity.
Wellington Courts other comments
Wellington Court seems to suggest that evidence of the work carried out by Mr P for GMTC 
can be obtained from the FCA. But it is for Wellington Court to provide us with evidence in 
support of its position. In the absence of such evidence, I dont think Wellington Court has 
shown that its role in Mr Ss pension transfer was limited to providing a checking service for 
GMTC.
Wellington Court says GMTC failed to undertake due diligence of the SIPPs intended 
investment in Dolphin Capital. But Mr S hasnt complained about GMTC  he has 
complained about the actions of Wellington Court. So my role is to consider Mr Ss complaint 
against Wellington Court  which Ive done. On a similar note, Wellington Court questions 
whether the Financial Ombudsman Service and the FCA have investigated GMTC or 
Dolphin Capital to ascertain who it was paying commission to . I cant comment on the FCA. 
And as Ive said above, it isnt my role to investigate GMTC or Dolphin Capital in relation to 
this complaint. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded that it advised Mr S to 
transfer his pension to GMTC and is responsible for his investment in Dolphin Capital.
Wellington Court has said it is willing to help us get to the bottom of the claims for a fee. 
But, as Im sure Wellington Court will appreciate, we are an impartial dispute resolution 
service. Delegating an investigation to the respondent of the complaint would go against that 
impartiality. Besides, Wellington Court has already had the opportunity to provide all the 
evidence and arguments it thinks are relevant.  
Wellington Court also asked for a meeting with us in order to resolve this matter. Under the 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules, either party can request a hearing. It is for the ombudsman to consider whether the issues raised in such a request are material enough to 
warrant a hearing. 
Having read the case in its entirety once again, I havent seen anything that makes me think 
a hearing is required. Ive outlined the evidence Ive relied upon in coming to my provisional 
decision. And Im satisfied theres nothing in that evidence that would necessitate me 
speaking to either party in order to better understand that evidence. Much of the evidence is 
paper based and, to my mind, incontrovertible (pension and bank statements showing 
money flowing from GMTC to Wellington Court for instance). The paperwork that is more 
debateable  the transfer paperwork  has been debated extensively in my decisions and 
I see no persuasive reason why a hearing would add significant insight to that debate.
I also note that Wellington Court hasnt actually provided any specific reasons for why a fair 
decision can only be reached following a hearing. In the circumstances, and after 
considering all the available evidence and the relevant DISP rules, Im satisfied I can fairly 
determine this complaint without a hearing.
Wellington Court has also said evidence hasnt been shared. It doesnt say exactly what 
hasnt been shared which makes responding difficult. But Im satisfied Wellington Court has 
seen the transfer paperwork for numerous complainants, Mr Ss included. Indeed, its case 
relies heavily on its views about the legitimacy of that paperwork.
Im satisfied Wellington Court has seen a copy of Mr Ss SIPP statement showing the 1% 
Wellington IFA Fee being taken from his transfer value. Wellington Court has also been 
sent a copy of GMTCs payment summary showing Mr Ss advice fee being paid to 
Wellington Courts bank account. This evidence is central to the outcome of the complaint 
and our investigator made particular reference to it in his assessment. And in my provisional 
decision, I set out in some detail the payments GMTC made to Wellington Court during 2015 
in relation to a large number of other transfers with very similar circumstances to Mr Ss 
transfer. In the circumstances, its difficult to see what material evidence Wellington Court 
has been deprived of. 
Jurisdiction
In my provisional decision, I explained why I thought Mr Ss complaint was in the jurisdiction 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I said Mr S had complained about a regulated activity, as advising someone to set up a SIPP 
and to transfer rights in existing personal pensions to that SIPP is a regulated activity. I also 
said Wellington Courts actions had the direct effect of bringing about Mr Ss transfer and 
investment in Dolphin Capital. In short, what Wellington Court did here constituted making 
arrangements under Article 25(1) of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001.
I also said that Mr S was an eligible complainant. I said I thought Mr S was Wellington 
Courts customer as he signed up for advice and he paid for advice. Wellington Court was 
sent, and accepted, payment for that advice. And that advice  or appearance of advice  
was critical to Mr S transferring and investing in the way he did. So I was satisfied there is a 
customer relationship here.
I acknowledged that Wellington Court may well have undertaken some consultancy work for 
GMTC, which may have given rise to a business-to-business relationship. But, I said it hadnt 
provided enough information to establish what the exact nature of its relationship with GMTC 
was. And, for the reasons given above, there was a relationship between the complainant, Mr S, and Wellington Court anyway regardless of any consultancy arrangement that may 
have been in place.
I also said the activities in question were carried on from an establishment in the UK; that 
Wellington Court is a regulated business and Mr S brought his complaint to us within the 
relevant time limits. So, with all of this above in mind, I was satisfied that this is a case I can 
consider.
Wellington Court hasnt provided any specific arguments in relation to jurisdiction except for 
its broader arguments about Mr S never being a client of Wellington Court. Ive dealt with 
those broader arguments and how they related to jurisdiction in my provisional decision. Ive 
addressed those arguments once again in my comments above and my conclusions havent 
changed. So, in the absence of any specific arguments about jurisdiction, I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings in this area. 
The merits of Mr Ss complaint
In my provisional decision, I concluded that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. I said: 
It looks like the transfers to the Orbis SIPP were initiated by introducers who sourced 
potential clients and did much of the work in terms of getting clients into a position to 
transfer. And then in order to progress the transfer, GMTC required the involvement of an 
advisory firm. Wellington Court fulfilled that role. But theres a lack of paperwork to show 
what, if anything, Wellington Court did in return for its advice fee. I dont know if this was due 
to an oversight on its part  that is, it didnt fully understand what it should have done given 
the regulations in place at the time  or whether it knew its actions were negligent. Either 
way, it seems Wellington Courts involvement was little more than window dressing, 
providing a veneer of advice to satisfy GMTC in return for a 1% fee on a large number of 
transfers.
The above means there isnt any detailed documentary evidence to show what Mr Ss 
financial needs and circumstances were at the time. Mr S recalls a risk assessment being 
carried out, but no documentary evidence of this is available. Nevertheless, Im satisfied the 
transaction wasnt suitable for Mr S. I say this because Dolphin Capital was a non-
mainstream, high risk, unregulated investment. Mr S doesnt appear to have had the degree 
of investment knowledge or risk appetite such an investment would have required. And it 
also looks like he allocated all of his pension savings to the one investment which strikes me 
as being an unsuitable strategy even for the most knowledgeable and least risk averse 
investors. Its also not apparent to me from the available evidence why Mr S would have 
needed to switch his existing pension to a SIPP, especially given the costs involved in doing 
so. All things considered, therefore, I dont think the transfer was suitable.
That said, it strikes me that Mr S had some interest in reviewing his investment strategy 
because that seems to have been behind his decision to think about a transfer in the first 
place. And although he says he was a low-medium risk investor, it looks like he was 
probably a medium risk investor given his previous pension was invested in a portfolio with a 
relatively high equity weighting and he still had over 10 years before he could think about 
accessing his pension. My approach to compensation, which is set out below, reflects these 
considerations.
It follows from the above that I intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint. If I do uphold Mr Ss 
complaint, Wellington Court will have to put things right for him by following the approach 
outlined below.Wellington Court hasnt provided any specific arguments in relation to what Ive said except 
for its broader arguments about Mr S never being a client of Wellington Court. I addressed 
these issues in my provisional decision. I revisited the same issues earlier in this final 
decision and my conclusions havent changed. I also havent been provided with any 
arguments or evidence from either party that makes me think my assumptions regarding 
Mr Ss needs and circumstances at the time of the transfer were incorrect. It follows from this 
that I remain satisfied with the approach I took with regards to the merits of Mr Ss complaint 
and the best approach to take to compensate him. So, Im upholding this complaint. 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would now be in
if he had been given suitable advice. I think Mr S would have invested differently. Its not
possible to say precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out
below is fair and reasonable given Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Wellington Court do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Wellington Court must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. Wellington Court should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Wellington Court should pay into Mr S's pension plan to increase its
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or
allowance.
If Wellington Court is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S's pension plan, it
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. As Mr S is likely to be
a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the
current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would have been able to take a tax free
lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wellington Court deducts income tax
from the interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Wellington Court should
give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The Orbis
SIPPstill existsFTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to 
the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. This is complicated where an
investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as appears to
be the case here. So, the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair
compensation. Wellington Court should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from
the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Wellington Court is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed
to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Wellington Court may require that Mr S provides an
undertaking to pay Wellington Court any amount he may receive from the investment in the
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Wellington Court will need to meet any costs in
drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Wellington Court totals all those payments and deducts that
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
SIPP Fees
The SIPP only exists because of Wellington Courts actions. But to close the SIPP and
prevent further fees from being incurred, the illiquid investment needs to be removed. If
Wellington Court cant do this, Mr S is faced with future SIPP fees. I think it is fair to assume
five years of future SIPP fees. So, if Wellington Court cant buy the investment, it should pay
an amount equal to five years of SIPP fees based on the current full tariff. This is in addition
to the compensation calculated using a nil value for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted income with growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ss circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Wellington Court Financial Services Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Wellington Court Financial Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr S 
in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman