DRN-2783001
The complaint
The complaint is about a secured loan taken out in 2005 originally with a lender Ill call W. 
In 2018, W ceased trading and the debt was transferred to a new lender, which Ill call C. 
The administration of the debt is carried out by Target Servicing Limited on behalf of C. Ms R 
is unhappy that Target is reporting the debt as being in default on her credit file and pursuing 
her for the debt.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (in my own words and rounding the figures) and then 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
W had stopped reporting information about the loan status on Ms Rs credit file in 2013. 
Then, in 2017, the mortgaged property was sold (Target says it was sold in possession) 
leaving a shortfall of around £29,000. That debt was transferred to C in May 2018. Ms R is 
unhappy that in 2019, Target resumed reporting information about the loan status; Ms R 
found out about this in early 2020 and complained. She believes the debt is statute-barred 
and says the adverse reporting put her employment at risk as its preventing her from getting 
finance for a new car which Ms R says she needs for her job.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we 
dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have 
enough information on file to decide it.
Its for me to decide when I have enough information and evidence to determine a complaint, 
and its for me to decide how much weight I should attach to the evidence I do have. We 
reach our findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of 
probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, for the 
following reasons.
Ill begin with Ms Rs assertion that the debt is statue-barred; it seems to me thats at the 
very centre of her argument and forms the crux of her case. In her email to us of 
9 April 2021, Ms R refers to it as the pertinent point. I agree with Ms R that the point is 
pertinent, but I dont agree that the debt is statute-barred: Ill explain why.
The statutory time limits for secured and unsecured debts arent the same. The law allows 
six years for unsecured debts and twelve years for secured debt (albeit in the latter case, the 
regulator of mortgage business has adopted six years is good practice). So for practical 
purposes, when considering what is fair, this service applies a six-year limit to secured and 
unsecured debt alike. 
The limitation period starts from the most recent incidence after crystallisation of the debt of 
one or other of the following:
the last time the borrower wrote to the creditor acknowledging they owed the debt; or
the last time the borrower made a payment to the debt.
The reason for the italics in the previous paragraph is that its important to remember that the 
debt at the heart of this dispute is not the secured loan that Ms R took out with W in 2005. 
Rather, its the unsecured shortfall debt that arose after the property had been repossessed 
and sold without realising enough money to repay the original secured loan. 
That happened in 2017; thats when the debt crystallised, and fewer than six years have 
passed since that happened. So Im not persuaded that Target, on behalf of C, is 
statute-barred from reporting the unsecured debt on Ms Rs credit file.  
Given that W hadnt been recording data on Ms Rs credit file for several years, Id expect 
Target, as a matter of courtesy and fair treatment, to have informed Ms R of its intention to 
resume credit file reporting. Target did do that, in August 2019, albeit it sent the letter to the 
mortgaged property address, and not Ms Rs current address.
I dont think I can fairly criticise Target for doing that. Whilst its possible W may have known 
Ms Rs new address (shes told us W wrote to her at her new address about a refund of PPI) 
it doesnt appear that W passed the information on when the debt was transferred to C. 
Thats borne out by the fact that the letter introducing C as Ms Rs new creditor in May 2018 
was sent to the former address too. 
Such an omission on Ws part is regrettable, but this complaint isnt about what W did or 
didnt do. W no longer exists and I have no power to consider its possible acts and 
omissions before ceasing trading; that also excludes how any PPI refund was handled. I can 
only consider what Target has done (or not done) on behalf of C since May 2018, and in that 
context, Target only became aware of Ms Rs new address in 2020 when Ms R gave the 
details over the phone. That enabled Target to use her current address when it sent the final 
response on her complaint in April 2020.
Ms R says that during a phone conversation, Targets staff member read out a letter that W 
had sent C at the time of the transfer telling it not to pursue Ms R for the debt. Theres no 
mention of such a letter in the call Ive listened to; its possible theres another call in which 
that happened, but in any event, Target wouldnt be bound by such an instruction from W, 
assuming it existed. 
Target, on behalf of C, is fully entitled to exercise its own judgement about whether, and by 
what means, it pursues the outstanding debt. I said earlier that I wasnt persuaded Target, 
on behalf of C, is statute-barred from reporting the unsecured debt on Ms Rs credit file. 
Similarly, Im not persuaded its statute-barred from seeking reasonable repayment 
proposals from her.When youre as close to a difficult situation as Ms R is here, its a natural subjective reaction 
to see things in a particular way. But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and 
impartial, and sometimes that means stepping back from the fine detail and taking an 
overview. It also means that Im not required to provide answers to every specific question 
that comes up, if I dont consider doing so will affect the overall outcome.
Looking at everything in the round, it seems to me that the outstanding debt at the heart of 
this dispute is a valid debt that crystallised in 2017. Im persuaded it is owed by Ms R, and 
that Target can fairly report its existence on her credit file and ask her for reasonable 
repayment proposals. 
Ms R doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if she doesnt, then neither she nor Target 
will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court 
might impose, Ms Rs right to take legal action against Target over the subject matter of this 
complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman