DRN-2760207
Complaint
Mrs W has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
the responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision. 
Background
The PPI was sold during a telephone conversation in 2001. The PPI covered her in the event 
she was off work due to illness or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
On 27 May 2021, I issued my provisional decision. In my provisional decision I explained 
that I agreed with the outcome reached by the adjudicator. But provided some further 
clarification and gave Mrs W an opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of what I said:
AXA says the PPI was sold during a telephone call and it would have gained her consent 
before adding it to Mrs Ws store card. Unfortunately, AXA hasnt been able to provide a call 
recording or a copy of the call script used at the time of the sale. This isnt surprising given 
the sale took place over 20 years ago. But it means Ive had to base my decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened at the time of the sale. 
It looks like Mrs W initially applied for her store card without PPI, and AXA phoned her over 
one year later to sell her a policy. Following that call, a policy was added to her store card. 
Based on what this service knows about AXAs telephone sales process at the time of the 
sale, I think its more likely than not that the optional nature of the policy was made clear. I 
also think that because Mrs W already had use of her card for some time before the PPI was 
added to it, its likely she would have known she didnt have to have PPI with her card. I 
would add that Mrs W would have started paying for the PPI from April 2001 onwards. So 
had the PPI been added to her card without her knowledge, I would have expected her to 
question the additional charges sooner than she did. Overall, I dont think Ive seen enough 
in this case to make me think the policy was added without Mrs Ws agreement. Instead, I 
think its more likely than not Mrs W agreed to take it out, knowing that she didnt have to.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W. That means it didnt have to check if the policy 
was right for her it was up to Mrs W herself to decide.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But based on what Mrs W has said about her circumstances at the time, she seems to 
have been eligible for the policy and she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions. I also havent 
seen anything to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Mrs W.
Mrs W has told us she wasnt entitled to any pay from her employer if she was too unwell to 
work. And she didnt have any savings she could have used to help cover her store card 
repayments if she was unable to work. Having thought about this, I think the PPI could have 
been useful for her. I say this because if she was too ill to work, the PPI would have paid out 
until she returned to work or the outstanding balance was paid. The PPI would have also 
paid out in the event she became unemployed until the outstanding balance was paid, or she 
was no longer unemployed. The policy would also have paid out in the unfortunate event of 
death.
 
So overall, I think Mrs W could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better information would have put her off of taking out the policy.
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision.
Mrs Ws representative has confirmed receipt of the provisional decision and that they have 
nothing further to add. I havent received a response from AXA.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case. 
As neither Mrs W nor AXA provided any further evidence or arguments for me to look at, Ive 
reached the same conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. 
So I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman