DRN-3986259
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (Mitsubishi) unfairly turned down 
her claim for a refund in respect of a timeshare agreement bought using a Mitsubishi loan
What happened
In February 2020, Mrs P and her partner bought a trial membership from a timeshare 
supplier Ill call C. Under the terms of the membership, Mrs P was entitled to take up to five 
weeks of holidays in a three-year period, ending in February 2023. The membership cost 
£4,395 and was paid for by Mrs P taking out a loan from Mitsubishi. 
Mrs P complained that, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, C was unable to guarantee that all of 
the accommodation promised to be available for the trial membership would be available for 
her to use. So, Mrs P asked Mitsubishi to refund what she paid for the timeshare.
In response to Mrs Ps complaint Mitsubishi said that C did have accommodation available to 
book and had made additional accommodation available in the UK. It also said C had offered 
to extend Mrs Ps membership by 18 months. So, it didnt think it needed to refund the cost 
of the timeshare to Mrs P. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Mrs P referred her complaint to this service. 
An investigator here didnt think Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. He said having thought 
about Mitsubishis likely liability to Mrs P, it hadnt unfairly turned down her claim. He said C 
had offered an appropriate extension to Mrs Ps membership which made up for any lost 
time during the height of the Covid-19 pandemic. And he thought that C had made some 
accommodation available for use during this time in any event.
Mrs P disagreed with the investigator and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
She said in summary:
Her complaint was not that she was unhappy because C couldn't provide 
accommodation for a date or time she required. Rather it was that C was unable to 
guarantee access to all of its accommodation worldwide due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. She said this was a breach of contract.
She couldnt have used the accommodation that C might have made available as she 
was classed as vulnerable and therefore not able to travel. And in any event, 
although the accommodation may have been available, some countries still had 
restrictions like quarantines that would have prevented her from using it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am looking here at the actions of Mitsubishi and whether it treated Mrs P fairly when she 
asked it to refund the cost of her timeshare. In doing so I am required to give consideration 
to relevant law, rules/guidance and good industry practice. 
Relevant law in this case includes Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). This 
provides that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal 
right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services that were financed. 
Having thought about what Mrs P has said, I dont find her claim in this case to be one of 
misrepresentation. Shes complained about events that happened after shed bought the 
timeshare which affected her contract with C (i.e. the Covid-19 pandemic) rather than about 
something that C said that was untrue before she bought it. The requirements to prove 
misrepresentation in the context of Mrs Ps case were, broadly speaking, that C made a 
false of statement of fact which induced her to enter into the timeshare contract. The 
statement generally needs to be false at the time it was made rather than becoming false 
after the contract is concluded. 
Mrs P said C breached its contract with her because it was unable to guarantee the 
availability of its accommodation worldwide as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. The 
agreement between Mrs P and C was for it to make five weeks of holiday accommodation 
available in a three-year period, as well as a prelude week. I note however that the 
agreement made no guarantees as to the availability of individual accommodation. Mrs P 
also signed a declaration which said accommodation would be subject to availability. 
So, the starting point here would seem to be that there was no guarantee all of the 
accommodation would be available to Mrs P at all times and the occasional lack of 
availability of some of the accommodation wouldnt appear to have been a breach of 
contract. 
I recognise the Covid-19 pandemic made it more difficult for Mrs P to travel from early 2020. 
However, it didnt appear to have stopped her from making bookings at some places from at 
least July 2020 onwards, albeit she may have found it difficult to travel overseas for a while. 
Ive noted what Mrs P has said has about not being able to travel after July 2020 due to 
being vulnerable and because of restrictions such as mandatory quarantines, red lists etc. I 
sympathise with Mrs Ps situation and I understand why she felt like she would be restricted 
in what she could book. But those were issues that restricted Mrs P from travelling. Ive not 
seen evidence these kinds of issues meant there was no accommodation made available to 
Mrs P.
 
C initially extended Mrs Ps membership by 18 months but it has now extended this even 
further until August 2025. I recognise that Mrs Ps agreement was supposed to run between 
February 2020 and 2023. So simply extending the contract wouldnt necessarily remedy the 
situation if there had been breach of contract or misrepresentation during that period. But for 
the reasons Ive explained, it appears unlikely there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation during that period (in relation to the specific things Mrs P has complained 
about).  
Thinking about all of this, I dont find Mitsubishi treated Mrs P unfairly when it declined her 
claim for a refund. I think it was reasonable for it to have viewed Cs offer to extend her 
membership as a suitable resolution to her claim. 
 
Ive noted Mrs Ps concerns about a recent problem she experienced when making a 
booking with one of Cs partners. However, this did not form part of Mrs Ps original complaint to Mitsubishi and it has not had the opportunity to respond to this. So, it wouldnt 
be appropriate for me to comment on these issues in this decision. Mrs P is able to raise the 
matter with either C or Mitsubishi in the same way she brought this complaint should she 
wish to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ps 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman