DRN-3766577
The complaint
A partnership which Ill call P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has 
treated them unfairly by requesting repayment of their business overdraft facility after the 
death of one of the partners.
 
The complaint is brought on Ps behalf by one of the partners, Mr P. 
What happened
P had two business current accounts and loan account with NatWest. One of the business 
accounts also has an overdraft facility.
P told us:
In January 2014, one of the partners passed away and both the loan account and 
business account with the overdraft (BCA1) were blocked by NatWest until probate 
had been finalised to protect the banks security position. 
They had agreed with the bank to continue making the monthly repayments on the 
loan to reduce the outstanding balance. 
They had an agreement with NatWest that the business account without the overdraft 
(BCA2) could remain open and operate on a credit-only basis. They have also 
continued to cover any interest charges payable on BCA1, despite not being able to 
access the account, and BCA2 remaining in credit. 
Since August 2020, NatWest has been demanding repayment of the overdraft on 
BCA1. However, the probate still isnt finalised and the partners have explained to 
the bank that they have no influence on when this is likely to be.
They feel they are being treated unfairly as both the loan repayments and overdraft 
interest are still being paid by P and theyve had more than 10 Relationship 
Managers who havent supported the business since the death of their partner in 
2014.
NatWest told us:
The bank had agreed that the partners could continue using BCA2 and leave the 
accounts with facilities blocked so that P could continue trading. This was to support 
the remaining partners as theyd explained they wished to reassign Ps security once 
probate had been finalised. 
This agreement had been made in 2014 and it hadnt been agreed that it would 
continue indefinitely. The bank thought it was reasonable for the overdraft to be 
repaid as the balance had been outstanding for around six years and there wasnt an 
expected date for probate to be finalized at that time. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought that NatWest had 
acted reasonably as it hadnt demanded immediate repayment of the overdraft but had 
asked P how it intended to repay the outstanding balance as the facility had expired. She 
also didnt think the tone of the letter was threatening and noted that NatWest hadnt given a 
timescale in the informal agreement for how long this could continue. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said it wasnt fair for the bank to request repayment of the overdraft as 
it was aware that probate hadnt been finalised and therefore P couldnt undertake the action 
requested by the bank. He also said that just because the overdraft was repayable on 
demand, didnt mean it was fair for NatWest to do this and that no consideration had been 
given to the fact that P was covering any interest on the overdraft and also repaying its loan. 
So he asked for an ombudsman to review Ps complaint and the case has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The partners say its unfair for NatWest to request the sudden repayment of the overdraft as 
they had an existing agreement in place from 2014. But I dont agree. I say this because Ive 
looked at the letter from the Relationship Manager, but it doesnt say the agreement would 
be on an indefinite basis, nor is it a formal agreement from the bank. The wording 
specifically says that in the short term the overdraft would be able to continue at its current 
level and that for the partners peace of mind, the bank wouldnt suddenly withdraw any 
facilities. 
Ive seen that it wasnt until 2018 that NatWest started to ask about the finalised probate and 
the in 2020 that the bank asked more formally about repayment of the overdraft in 2020. So I 
dont think the bank has suddenly made the decision to request repayment of the overdraft 
and I cant reasonably say the bank has acted unfairly by taking this action after the informal 
agreement had already been extended to around six years - which Im satisfied is longer 
than the short term it stated.
 
Mr P says its unfair for NatWest to be able to recall the overdraft because it is an on 
demand facility and just because the bank can take this action, doesnt mean it should. I 
acknowledge Mr Ps comments, but I dont think thats what the bank has done here. I say 
this because under the terms of the overdraft facility, which the partners signed, NatWest 
could at any point recall the facility, this included when one of the partners passed away in 
2014. However, the bank has chosen not to exercise this option for what is now around eight 
years and looking at the correspondence from NatWest, it still hasnt actually demanded the 
repayment of the facility only asked how P intends to repay the facility and explained the 
arrangement cant continue.
The partners also say that NatWest has behaved unreasonably in its correspondence with 
them. However, Ive looked at the correspondence from the bank since 2020 and Ive seen 
that it asked that the partners start discussions on how they intended to repay the overdraft 
facility  rather than demanding the instant repayment of the overdrawn balance. The letters 
also asked P to provide an update from their solicitors on the status of the probate because 
if this wasnt provided the bank may request repayment/banking elsewhere. So based on 
what Ive seen I think NatWest has acted fairly and the language used in its letters to the 
partners was reasonable.
The partners have told us they are unhappy with the number of relationship managers that P 
has been given over this period, but I cant see that this has caused them a financial loss. I 
say that because looking at the evidence, each of the Relationship Managers has extended 
the agreement and therefore the overdraft facility has remained as it was since 2014. It 
wasnt until 2018 onwards that they started more formally asking for updates on when the 
issue with the probate was likely to be resolved  but throughout this period each Relationship Manager still extended the facility as requested in line with the original informal 
agreement.
 
I acknowledge that the partners say NatWest is treating them unfairly as they are continuing 
to repay the outstanding loan and overdraft interest and that the bank knows they are 
restricted by the issues regarding probate. However, I dont think its reasonable to expect 
NatWest to leave the overdraft facility in place indefinitely  particularly as the partners dont 
have a timescale for when probate (which will provide the funds to clear the overdraft) is 
likely to be finalised. 
NatWest has obligations as a responsible lender to make sure that it is doing the right thing 
for its customers  which includes considering how any debt will be repaid. And in this case 
P is only covering any interest which is accruing on the overdraft and havent made any 
attempts to repay the actual overdrawn balance which has stood at around £250,000 for the 
last eight years. Whilst I acknowledge P says they are making their loan repayments this is 
for a different facility with the bank and no action has been taken by it because the debt 
continues to reduce as expected. So based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that NatWests 
actions towards P regarding the outstanding overdraft balance have been both fair and 
reasonable.  
I recognise that the partners feel strongly about this and theyll be disappointed with my 
decision. But based on everything Ive seen I dont think NatWest has done anything wrong 
in its request for P to consider repayment of the overdraft facility.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman