DRN-3150711
The complaint
Mr M complains about delays by HSBC UK Bank Plc when dealing with a card dispute. Mr M 
also complains about difficulties when he tried to open a Premier bank account with HSBC. 
Mr M further complains he was given the wrong information when he asked about 
completing transfers. 
What happened
Mr M raised a card dispute with HSBC in October 2020 but the funds werent returned to him 
until April 2021, after he raised a complaint. HSBC upheld Mr Ms complaint about the 
dispute and paid him £200 to apologise. 
Mr M has also told us he called HSBC to ask about upgrading to a Premier Account and was 
incorrectly told to visit a branch. When Mr M visited his local branch, he was told he didnt 
qualify for a Premier Account and he complained. HSBC apologised for the service provided 
and paid Mr M £200 in recognition of the trouble caused. 
Mr M contacted HSBC to check how much he could transfer per day but wasnt given the 
right information. HSBC said its call handler had been able to complete transfers on Mr Ms 
behalf and apologised for the information he was given. HSBC paid Mr M £75 compensation. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ms complaints. She felt HSBC had dealt with 
Mr Ms complaints fairly and didnt ask it to increase the award. Mr M asked to appeal and 
said he didnt agree £475 was a fair way to resolve his complaint. As a result, Mr Ms 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above and have focused on the key 
events. As far as I can see, all parties broadly agree about the timeline for Mr Ms complaints 
and what happened. Ive considered whether the £475 compensation paid by HSBC is fair. 
I can see there have been issues with the information and service provided to Mr M. I agree 
that waiting around six months for a card dispute to be resolved is frustrating and that the 
service provided shouldve been better. Im pleased HSBC refunded the disputed payment to 
Mr M, that means theres no financial loss. I note Mr M had to chase HSBC and ultimately 
raised a complaint before the dispute was resolved. I agree thats unreasonable. 
HSBC paid Mr M £200 and apologised for the delays and service provided during the card 
dispute. I think thats a reasonable way to resolve Mr Ms complaint about the card dispute 
and fairly reflects the inconvenience caused. 
Mr M wanted to upgrade to HSBCs Premier account and called to ask about eligibility and 
steps required. But despite visiting a branch as requested, his application didnt proceed. I 
agree that being unnecessarily told to visit a branch again caused some inconvenience to 
Mr M. But HSBC has paid Mr M £200 in relation to his branch visit. And whilst I understand 
Mr M is upset, I think thats a fair level of compensation given the issues raised. I havent 
been persuaded to tell HSBC to increase the compensation for this issue. 
When Mr M asked about carrying out transfers he wasnt given the right information. It was 
only after he called HSBC back that a member of staff was able to provide the assistance he 
needed to complete them. But its clear the information Mr M was given wasnt complete and 
it took further calls from him before the transfers could be made. HSBC paid Mr M £75 to 
apologised. As Mr Ms funds were ultimately transferred, Ive considered whether the £75 
HSBC paid is reasonable. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but the compensation paid was very 
much in line with what I wouldve told HSBC to pay in the same circumstances. Im satisfied 
the settlement paid was fair. 
Whilst I agree there were several issues that caused Mr M unnecessary inconvenience, Im 
satisfied HSBC has dealt with his complaint fairly and resolved the problems he raised. As 
Im satisfied HSBC has dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman