DRN-3464616
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy that her account with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money went 
into unplanned borrowing. Shes also unhappy that she was incorrectly advised that an 
unplanned borrowing position would have no impact on her credit file.
What happened
In August 2021 Miss W received a credit of £100 to her bank account in error. She 
attempted to return the funds but was unable to because there were insufficient funds in her 
account.
Miss W complained to Virgin. She said she didnt understand how her account had gone into 
unauthorised overdraft and queried how her daughter had been able to make a payment to 
her rent account because there shouldnt have been funds available to do so.
In response, Virgin said the reason Miss Ws daughter was able to transfer payments was 
due to the card authorisation process. It said that when it processed a card payment, it gave 
the company permission to debit those funds at any time, and the transaction would display 
on the account as a pending transaction for 48 hours. Virgin explained that if the company 
didnt take the funds within 48 hours, the funds would credit back into the account and show 
as available funds but could be collected at a later date. Virgin said that Miss Ws account 
was overdraw by £266.57 prior to the 3100 which was credited in error, which was why she 
had been unable to return the funds. It said there hadnt been a bank error and that it wasnt 
upholding Miss Ws complaint.
Miss W contacted Virgin again and asked if going into unauthorised overdraft would affect 
her credit file. The adviser said it wouldnt have any impact.
Miss W later discovered that her credit score had been impacted. She complained to Virgin, 
who acknowledged that the adviser had provided incorrect information. Virgin said it couldnt 
remove the adverse information because it was under an obligation to report accurate and 
up to date information about the state of the account.
Miss W wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there was no evidence that Virgin had 
made an error. She also said that at the time Miss W was advised that there would be no 
impact on her credit file, the account had been overdrawn for two months.
Miss W didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the transaction which took place on Miss Ws account at the relevant time. I 
can see that there were pending transactions for £155 and £100. These payments were 
taken on 16 August 2021. I can see that on the same date, the sum of £275 was transferred 
to Miss Ws rent account.
On 25 August 2021 a credit of £100 was received to the account in error. I can see that Miss 
W was unable to transfer these funds back, because the account had gone into 
unauthorised overdraft.
Based on what Ive seen, its the pending transactions which have caused the confusion 
here. A pending transaction can display on an account for 48 hours, but if the funds arent 
taken during this time, the funds go back into the account and show as available funds, but 
they can be collected at any time. This resulted in a situation where Miss Ws account was 
overdrawn prior to 25 August 2021, the date when the £100 credit was received in error.
I appreciate that Miss W didnt release that the pending transactions had been credited to 
the account, so it looked as if she had available funds with which to carry out the other 
transactions. However, Im unable to say that this was caused by a bank error, so I wont be 
asking Virgin to do anything further about this aspect of the complaint. 
Virgin has acknowledged that it gave Miss W incorrect information when it told her that the 
unauthorised borrowing wouldnt affect her credit file. Ive thought about whether Virgin 
needs to do something about this. However, notwithstanding that it gave incorrect advice to 
Miss W, Virgin didnt make an error which caused the unauthorised borrowing. Virgin has an 
obligation to report up to date and accurate information to the credit reference agencies, and 
this includes information about unauthorised overdraft borrowing. So, Im unable to say that 
Virgin has done anything wrong by reporting this information to the credit reference 
agencies. Even though Virgin provided incorrect information to Miss W about the impact that 
the unauthorised borrowing would have on her credit file, this made no difference because 
the adverse information had already been reported around two months before the incorrect 
advice was given, and would have been reported in any event.
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to say that Virgin has made an error here and I wont 
be asking it to amend the credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman