DRN-1757144
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC sent her a banking passcode which she didn't 
request and has since then been unable to access her account on-line or by telephone. 
What happened
Mrs B paid a cheque into her everyday saver account on 8 June 2019. On 12 June 2019 a 
mortgage broker she was dealing with had discussions with Barclays about Mrs B applying 
for a new mortgage with it. Unbeknownst to her, this created a new on-line passcode, which 
was sent through the post.
When Mrs B received this, she was concerned about the security of her account, as it 
wasn't something she had requested. She contacted Barclays who put her through to its 
fraud team. Mrs B reports the conversation was very distressing as she was being asked to 
change her passwords without explanation. Because of the concerns raised and because 
fraudulent activity might have occurred on the account, Barclays blocked Mrs Bs accounts 
whilst it was looking into the generation of the passcode. Mrs B says she was only able to 
access her account in branch.
Frustrated with what had happened, Mrs B visited her branch, who were able to confirm the 
passcode had come from Barclays. But the branch weren't able to explain why. It logged a 
complaint for her and ordered new passcode details. After waiting for a response, Mrs B 
asked us to look into the matter; she was concerned her accounts were still blocked and she 
still hadn't received new online and telephone banking passcodes.
Barclays explained to us that the new passcode was generated as a result of the mortgage 
application discussion on 12 June 2019. Our investigator found this was a reasonable 
explanation for what happened given the passcode was generated on that same day. But 
she also found that as the explanation was so straight forward this was something Barclays 
should have been able to give Mrs B far sooner and questioned whether it should have been 
necessary to block the accounts at all. So she upheld the complaint and asked Barclays to 
pay Mrs B £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. She had also 
previously asked it to send out new passcodes as these hadn't been received by Mrs B.
Barclays agreed with the outcome, but Mrs B didn't. In summary:
She doesn't feel she has been given an adequate explanation for why the passcode 
was generated.
Although she has received an on-line banking passcode she still hasn't received a 
new code for telephone banking.
She wants to us to listen to the call between her and the fraud department as this 
was particularly distressing for her.
She doesn't believe £250 compensation is sufficient. She says she was going to 
mover her savings to an account paying higher interest but hasn't been able to do so 
because of this. She would like the difference in interest to be paid and says there 
were accounts offering 0.5% at the time (this account is 0.3%)
She cannot operate her mobile banking app. 
The complaint was referred to me for a final decision. I noted that Barclays didn't have a 
recording of the call between Mrs B and its fraud department. I explained this to Mrs B and 
asked whether she had moved her money now she had on-line access. Mrs B confirmed she 
hadn't; she still didn't have telephone banking access and didn't move her money as she 
was worried someone was monitoring the account.
Following queries from myself Barclays has since explained:
Mrs Bs accounts are no longer blocked but it cannot confirm when these restrictions 
were lifted.
It cannot send telephone banking passcodes to branch. However, it did say the 
wording on telephone passcodes can be misleading and refer to on-line passcodes 
instead.
The blocks were applied following a report from Mrs B and it followed correct banking 
procedure in doing this.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 7 April 2020. Barclays agreed with my 
recommendation. Mrs B has provided further submissions:
She has still not received a telephone passcode and doesn't understand why this 
can't be sent in the post to her. 
She raised the issue of her app not working and believed it was connected to her 
account being blocked. She is still unable to use the app and as she doesn't have a 
telephone passcode she can't call for help with this. 
She didn't move her money as she was advised not to by branch staff whilst the 
investigation was ongoing. 
She is happy to accept the compensation but only once she has received a 
telephone passcode.
 
As both parties have now responded to my provisional findings it is appropriate to move to 
our final stage of our process. I will respond to Mrs B's points in my findings below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has found this situation very distressing and I can understand why. It must have been 
extremely worrying to be sent to passcodes that hadn't been requested; particularly as the 
passcode letter referred to a 'replacement' passcode. So I can fully appreciate why Mrs B 
was worried that fraud might have been attempted on her account. 
Barclays explained new passcodes are generated when new accounts are applied for, 
including mortgage accounts. However, I understand from Mrs B that she never actually 
applied for an account, only enquiries were made. So I can understand her reticence to 
accept the explanation. I made further enquiries.  But Barclays wasn't able to shed any light 
on the matter as it said its audit records are only kept for six months. I'm surprised Barclays 
can't provide a more detailed explanation; it must know more about when and in what 
circumstances passcodes are generated. And it also knew this complaint was being 
investigated, so I'm disappointed it didn't keep information that might have been relevant. 
That said, I can see the passcode was generated on the same day as the mortgage enquiries were made, and so I find this a plausible explanation for what happened. And 
although Mrs B thinks fraud might have been attempted, I haven't seen any evidence in 
support of that.  
I accept that when an account holder is worried fraud has happened or might be attempted 
that a prudent course of action by a bank would be to block accounts. After all, that might 
prevent the loss of funds. But given its explanation of why the passcode was generated, I'm 
not persuaded this step was justified or necessary. Barclays staff should be aware of its own 
processes and procedures such that it should have been able to explain to Mrs B why the 
code had been sent.  Had it been able to do so, its highly unlikely her accounts would have 
been blocked. Indeed, had Barclays' correspondence been clear about why the passcode 
was sent, Mrs B might not have needed to raise concerns at all. 
Because it couldn't answer Mrs B's questions, she lost on-line and telephone banking 
access to her accounts; new codes were to be sent as a result of the concerns raised. There 
seems to have been some considerable problems with Mrs B receiving her passcodes. It 
wasn't until December that she confirmed receiving her on-line code but she still hadn't 
received a telephone banking code. Barclays has since explained that the wording on its 
code can be misleading about what its for and says telephone codes can be described as 
on-line codes. I don't know if Mrs B received more than one on-line code or not. But it seems 
to be another area where Barclays isn't communicating with its customers clearly and its 
entirely possible Mrs B could have had telephone banking much sooner, if Barclays had sent 
clear information. 
Mrs B has now confirmed she still hasn't received a telephone banking code and queries 
why this can't be posted to her. My understanding is that these are being posted, and like 
her I'm at a loss as to why they aren't arriving. Therefore, Barclays will need to send her 
another. And if its able it should arrange for it to be sent by registered post or recorded 
delivery. 
I understand Mrs B's accounts are no-longer blocked although Barclays can't tell us when 
the restrictions were lifted. But it seems to me Mrs B should be fairly compensated for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. She has had her accounts blocked unnecessarily, 
because Barclays couldn't provide an explanation for the passcode. Although Barclays 
agreed with the investigator's recommendation of £250, I don't think that goes far enough. 
When thinking about what is fair, I need to take into account that this has all stemmed from a 
process that hasn't been clearly explained to it customer or its staff. It has caused Mrs B 
considerable worry, which I understand from Mrs B was compounded further by Barclays' 
fraud team. And she hasn't been able to fully access her accounts for many months; she 
was only able to access them in branch until December when she received a new on-line 
passcode. I find £500 to be a fairer reflection of the impact Barclays' actions had on Mrs B. 
Mrs B has asked that she is paid the difference between the interest earned on this everyday 
saver account and what she could have earned elsewhere. I have thought about this 
carefully and taken into account that, in common law, there is a duty to mitigate losses. 
Although Mrs B didn't have access to on-line or telephone banking, I understand she could 
access her accounts in branch. So she did have limited access to her accounts but I'm not 
aware she made any attempt, in branch, to move her savings elsewhere. Mrs B has also told 
us she didn't move her funds in December when she received her on-line pass code; she 
was worried someone was monitoring her account. But I don't find this particularly 
persuasive. I think if most people thought their account was being monitored they would 
move their money away sooner rather than later. 
Mrs B has explained she was told in branch not to move her money whilst the fraud 
investigation was ongoing. However, Mrs B was informed by our investigator in September 2019 that the new code had been sent as a result of the mortgage application enquiry and 
this was confirmed again in her view in December. But Mrs B still hasn't taken any steps to 
move her money.  As Mrs B hasn't taken any steps to move her savings, despite knowing 
the reason for the code being issued for many months, its hard for me to accept she would 
have done so sooner. And she hasn't taken any steps to mitigate potential losses. It remains 
that I find no basis on which to ask Barclays to pay the difference in savings rates. 
Mrs B let us know she has problems with her banking app. She has tried deleting and 
reinstalling the app but that hasn't worked. Mrs B didn't let us know about this until we had 
already started looking into her complaint. It isn't something I can consider until Barclays has 
been given the opportunity to do so first. So if Mrs B is still having problems with the app, 
she'll need to refer back to Barclays and possibly her mobile phone provider. 
Mrs  B says she did let Barclays know about the app, but I haven't seen any evidence this 
formed part of her complaint at the time. So she'll need to complain about this to Barclays 
first, before we can get involved. 
Putting things right
I'm upholding this complaint and require Barclays to:
pay Mrs B £500 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused. 
to send Mrs B a further telephone banking code, within 28 days of her acceptance of 
my decision. Barclays should also take steps to send this by recorded 
delivery/registered post if it able. 
 
A lot of the problems Mrs B has experienced is a result of poor communication by Barclays, 
and a lack of knowledge of its staff. I therefore also recommend:
It reviews the content of passcode notifications to reflect why the passcode is being 
sent; and
it provides training to staff, including its fraud team, so they understand in what 
circumstances passcodes are sent out. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to redress 
Mrs B as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman