DRN-1975200
The complaint
Mrs S complained because she felt she was wrongly advised by one of Phoenix Life 
Assurance Limited's advisers to contract out of the State Earning Related Pension Scheme 
("SERPS"). 
At the time, the adviser was an authorised representative of another business. But Phoenix 
is now responsible for the complaint so I will refer to Phoenix throughout.
What happened
In 1990 the adviser visited Mrs S where she worked and advised her to contract out of 
SERPS and to take out a separate private pension instead. Mrs S followed the advice and 
completed an application form. The form confirmed that: 
Mrs S was an employee in non-pensionable employment
she wished to contract out of SERFS and have her own and her employers National 
Insurance contributions paid into a personal pension plan
her age at her next birthday would be 26
her current earnings were £7,100.
In 2019 Mrs S complained to Phoenix about the advice she'd been given. She felt she would 
have been better off had she not contracted out of SERPS. Phoenix felt the advice Mrs S 
had been given was appropriate. It said she met the necessary requirements regarding age, 
gender and earnings for the advice to contract out of SERPS to be suitable.
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt the advice 
Mrs S received was suitable as she met the relevant eligibility criteria. She acknowledged 
that the pension is less now than what it would have been if Mrs S hadn't contracted out of 
SERPS; however, she said that contracting out seemed a favourable option in general at the 
time when the investment climate was more promising.
Mrs S disagreed with our investigator. She said the adviser told her contracting out of 
SERPS would benefit her in the future, and she didn't realise how bad a deal it was. She 
further said the return hasn't been good over the years and she will now be out of pocket. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Many consumers were advised to contract out of SERPS because, at the time, the assumed 
growth of a private pension and the annuity rates available made it seem likely they would 
be better off. However, over the years growth was less than expected and annuity rates fell. 
And that's led to complaints like this one.
There's been some discussion in this case about the comparison between Mrs S's current 
pension and what it would have been had she not contracted out of SERPS. It's easy to see 
why Mrs S feels hard done by when she's followed the recommendation of the adviser and 
she's lost out because of it. But the fact Mrs S might now be worse off having contracted out 
of SERPS doesn't automatically mean the advice she received at the time was unsuitable. 
It's important that complaints like this are assessed based on what was known or reasonably 
assumed at the time the advice was given; not what is now known with the benefit of 
hindsight.
The consumer's age at the time the advice was given is important to this type of complaint. 
That's because the growth that might be achieved in a pension is affected by the length of 
time between each payment and the consumer's retirement age. The longer the money is 
invested, the better the chance that the consumer would be better off by contracting out of 
SERPS. For consumers who were closer to retirement it was generally more sensible for 
them to remain in SERPS.
For this reason financial businesses like Phoenix set what were called 'pivotal ages'  this 
was essentially the maximum age for men and women below which they might expect to be 
better off by contracting out of SERPS.
The amount the consumer earned at the time the advice was given is also important to this 
type of complaint. That's because consumers who only paid a small amount of National 
Insurance would receive a very small payment from the State. And the charges on a 
personal pension would make it unlikely that those consumers would be better off in 
retirement.
For this reason financial businesses also set a minimum earning level  this was essentially 
the minimum amount a person could earn above which they might expect to be better off by 
contracting out of SERPS.
With that in mind, in deciding this type of complaint the main things I look at are the 
consumer's age compared to the pivotal age at the time and the consumer's earnings 
compared to the set minimum earnings at the time. I also look at whether the employer 
offered a pension scheme the consumer could join and whether the consumer joined that 
scheme. If the consumer was below the pivotal age, earned more than the minimum amount 
and the advice had no impact on any occupational pension scheme membership, it's very 
unlikely that I will uphold the complaint.
At the time Mrs S received the advice Phoenix's pivotal age was 46 for females and the 
minimum earnings level was £4,500. As Ive outlined above, Mrs S turned 26 at her next 
birthday and she earned £7,100 at the time. So she easily met these criteria.
Theres a discrepancy in the information I have about any occupational pension scheme that 
Mrs S could have joined. The application form  which I think is the most persuasive piece of 
evidence that records any conversation at the time  says that Mrs S was in non-
pensionable employment. However, Mrs S has told us there was a scheme she could have 
joined, but she chose not to. Based on the very limited information available its not possible 
for me to say if Mrs S was eligible to join any available occupational pension scheme at the 
time. Some schemes werent available to members under a certain age or seniority of role. If 
she was, there might have been an argument that the adviser should have advised Mrs S to 
join the occupational scheme. But he couldnt have done that if he was told that Mrs S was in 
non-pensionable employment, and was working on the basis. And I think it was fair for him to 
work on that basis given what the application form said. There's nothing I've seen that 
suggests Mrs S's ability to join the occupation scheme was affected by the advice to contract 
out of SERPS.Taking all the above into account, I'm satisfied that the advice Mrs S received in 1990 was 
suitable. I appreciate she has lost out. However, based on the relevant criteria and what was 
known and reasonably assumed at the time, it was likely that she would have been better off 
by contracting out. And the advice she received was in line with that likelihood.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman