DRN-3390953
The complaint
Miss O complained about the behaviour of the mechanic sent by U K Insurance Limited, 
trading as Green Flag (Green Flag) after her car failed to start.  
What happened
Miss O had a roadside assistance policy with Green Flag. Her car was parked outside her 
home in November 2021 when it wouldnt start. So Miss O rang Green Flag. 
Green Flag arrived at Miss Os home around two hours later. Green Flag said the mechanic 
assessed the car as needing further investigation in a garage, as it had a suspected 
alternator fault.  
Miss O was unhappy with the behaviour and demeanour of the Green Flag mechanic and 
complained to it the following day. Miss O said she was concerned about the hostile and 
aggressive approach of the mechanic; how he was abrupt when she asked him to remove 
the light on his helmet; how the mechanic rummaged through belongings on the car 
dashboard and how he provided misinformation about the next steps. Miss O also 
complained about how her complaint was handled by the first advisor she spoke to. 
Green Flag responded and did not uphold the complaint. It said in the statement Miss O 
provided outlining her complaint, she made reference to the personal appearance of the 
mechanic, including his dark skin colour and full beard, and her perceptions of his 
character based on these. Green Flag said it would not comment on these and would 
instead focus on the actions he took and the advice he gave. 
Green Flag said the mechanic looked in the cars glovebox in order to access a diagnostic 
port, and this was relevant to the job. It said the mechanic provided an explanation about the 
problem with the car and put this in layperson terms. Its the case that Miss O didnt like the 
analogy used, but the mechanic didnt do anything wrong. Green Flag said the complaint 
handler was polite, respectful and attentive. 
Miss O then complained to this service. She said the mechanics tone was abrupt and 
discourteous. She said he was wearing a dazzling headlamp and she couldnt properly see 
him, and she felt he was trying to hide his identity. She described his physical appearance 
and said he looked like a terrorist and he intended to make her feel frightened. Miss O said 
he banged his hands on the car bonnet and rifled through the glove compartment, and didnt 
explain why - as if she didnt exist. Miss O felt the mechanic went out of his way to create 
problems with her car. Miss O said she ended up spending £475 on her car and she thinks 
Green Flag are responsible for that bill. Miss O was also unhappy with the conversation she 
had with the Green Flag complaint handler when she first contacted it. And she felt Green 
Flag twisted what she said when it responded to her complaint.  
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Os complaint. She sympathised about Miss Os 
negative experience, but said she hasnt seen enough evidence to suggest the mechanic 
had done anything wrong. He assessed the car, said what he thought the issue was and 
advised Miss O to visit a garage as soon as possible. Our investigator also thought the 
actions that made Miss O feel uncomfortable werent done deliberately. 
Miss O did not agree with what our investigator said and felt the investigator took a biased 
approach. She felt the outcome made her feel she was being attacked which added to the 
upset from the original incident. As Miss O didnt agree with the outcome, this has come to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
I first of all want to assure Miss O that I have taken all of the information provided by her into 
consideration, even if not every point made by Miss O is mentioned in this decision.   
Miss O has referred to the appearance of the mechanic including the colour of his skin. 
Green Flag felt Miss Os perceptions of the mechanics character were based on his physical 
appearance and declined to comment on this further. Like Green Flag, I have decided not to 
comment - as my role here is to look at whether Green Flag dealt with Miss Os complaint 
fairly -  except to say that the appearance of the mechanic bears no relation to the service he 
provided. 
I can see that Miss O clearly feels strongly about how threatened and disempowered she felt 
when the Green Flag mechanic attended the call out. I dont doubt this is how she felt. But I 
want to be clear about my remit  the only way I could uphold this complaint is if I was 
satisfied that Green Flag made errors, in this case in relation to the service provided by the 
mechanic. I have decided not to uphold Miss Os complaint, but I want to stress that in doing 
so I am not disregarding how she felt. I am saying that I cant see that Green Flag made any 
errors or behaved unreasonably. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at the facts of this situation. Miss O called Green Flag out when her car failed to 
start and it attended within, what I consider to be, a reasonable amount of time. The 
mechanic called Miss O when he arrived, as she had understandably decided to wait in her 
home. The mechanic asked her to come out to the car. He assessed the problem, which 
included getting into the car to access the electrics and opening the bonnet, which seems to 
me to be a fairly standard way of assessing a car. He told Miss O that she would need to 
attend a local garage, perhaps the following day, to get them to have a look at the car. The 
mechanic then left. 
What I cant ignore here is that, however strongly Miss O feels that Green Flag placed her in 
a vulnerable position, nothing of concern actually happened from what Ive seen. By this I 
mean that, for instance, while Miss O was concerned the mechanic was trying to hide his 
identity, he was who he said he was. And it was appropriate for him to wear a headlight, 
given that it was dark outside when he attended. So, while Miss O might have perceived him 
as being predatory, dangerous, aggressive and scurrying like a thief, I dont think the 
mechanic did anything other than assess the car and leave.  
I can see that Miss O was concerned about the tone used by the mechanic when he spoke 
to her. Its difficult for me to comment on this, as I wasnt there. But theres no suggestion 
from Miss O that the mechanic used inappropriate language when talking to her. Its the 
case that she was upset by an analogy about running water and showers that the mechanic 
used when trying to explain what might be wrong with the car, but I dont think this analogy was inappropriate. So, I cant see that the language used by the mechanic when speaking to 
Miss O was a concern. 
As I said, I appreciate that Miss O felt this was an incredibly negative experience, and I am 
not trying to tell her that she should have experienced it differently. Miss O is the only person 
who can say how a particular situation made her feel. But, having looked at all of the 
information provided, I cant see that the mechanics behaviour, in terms of how he 
responded to the call out, was unreasonable or inappropriate.  
Miss O has also complained about how the first claims handler she spoke to at Green Flag 
dealt with her complaint. But while this service can consider a wide variety of complaints 
about financial services, we arent free to look into every complaint thats referred to us. The 
rules that set out what complaints we can consider are the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules 
set out in the Financial Conduct Authority handbook. One of these rules (DISP 2.3) outlines 
how this service can consider complaints in relation to regulated activities. Complaint 
handling is not a regulated activity and so I have not addressed it in this decision. 
When Miss O contacted this service, she said it cost her £475 to repair her car and she 
thinks Green Flag should pay this. She thought the car was tampered with and shes paid 
more for repairs as a result. But I cant see that Miss O has complained about this particular 
matter to Green Flag, and she needs to do that first, if she has concerns about whether the 
mechanic actually damaged the car. Businesses have to be given the opportunity to resolve 
complaints before this service will look into them. So, I have not addressed this particular 
complaint point in this decision. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman