DRN-1458341
 
The complaint
Miss G says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma Loans lent to her 
irresponsibly. She says she couldnt afford the loans and she had problems coping with the 
repayments.    
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Satsuma provided to Miss G between January 
2019 and March 2019.
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(months)repayments date ended
1 02/01/2019 £700.00 12 £116 outstanding
2 15/03/2019 £300.00 12 £50 outstanding
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the checks Satsuma had made 
were proportionate so it wasnt wrong to approve the loans
Miss G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She said that:
she had large amounts of credit elsewhere 
she had defaulted on other loans and she had received a county court judgement
she was paying a nominal amount to some of her other creditors including Provident 
her income was lower than that recorded by Satsuma and her expenditure was high 
 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs 
complaint and Ive explained why below.
For loan 1 Miss G needed to repay around £115 per month for 12 months. Loan 2 added 
around £50 to this monthly repayment. 
Ive seen a record of the information Miss G provided when she completed her loan 
application. Miss G said she had a monthly income of around £1,650 and she had regular 
monthly outgoings of around £700. Satsuma used the information it obtained from the credit 
file to adjust this. But even after doing this Miss G still had enough disposable income to 
make the loan repayments.  So I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to think that the loan 
repayments were affordable initially. 
I understand that Satsuma had declined loans to Miss G earlier so it asked to look at some 
of her bank statements. Miss G has supplied some of the bank statements she provided to 
Satsuma. She thinks that these contradict the information that Satsuma had recorded about 
her and so it shouldnt have lent. 
Looking at these bank statements they show the income Miss G declared wasnt 
unreasonable. But the information isnt clear enough for me to be able to say that the 
expenditure details Satsuma had werent correct. 
The bank statements do show that Miss G was paying a nominal sum to some of her 
creditors. But she hadnt started doing this recently and so this wasnt necessarily a sign that 
she was, at the time, struggling financially. Rather it showed that she had some problems in 
the past but that these were not necessarily ongoing. 
And the bank statements dont show any other signs of significant financial difficulty such as 
problems making regular payments or extensive use of an overdraft. 
Satsumas credit checks did show that Miss G had a county court judgement over two years 
earlier. But again this was some time ago and the other credit file information that Satsuma 
obtained also doesnt show that she was having any significant current problems. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Satsuma was made aware of any 
current financial problems Miss G mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted 
it to investigate her circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to rely 
on the information it obtained.So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Satsuma did for these loans 
were proportionate. And I think its decisions to lend for loans 1 and 2 were reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman