DRN-3273743
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd took too long to provide assistance when he 
claimed on his roadside assistance insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Js car broke down, so he called Bastion to claim on his policy. Bastion accepted the 
claim and said it would send out roadside assistance which would be with Mr J in around 60-
90 minutes. 
Unfortunately, there was an issue with attending the scene of Mr Js broken-down car and 
the time to arrive was extended. Mr J called Bastion and was told assistance would be with 
him soon. After several hours and not knowing when Bastion would arrive, Mr J decided to 
contact another recovery company. This other recovery company attended the scene and 
recovered Mr Js car for him. Mr J paid £80 for this recovery and complained to Bastion. 
Bastion reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said that normally recovery is 
provided within 60-90 minutes but unfortunately in Mr Js case that wasnt possible. They 
also said the policy doesnt say when recovery will be provided and that the policy also 
excludes any costs Mr J pays to an alternate recovery provider. Mr J didnt think this was fair 
and brought his complaint here. He said hed waited for over six hours and not received 
assistance. He asked for Bastion to reimburse the £80 hed paid to the other recovery 
provider. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Js complaint and recommended it was upheld. She found 
that Mr J had called Bastion at 11:44 but the job wasnt created on their systems until 12:56. 
So thought Bastion had delayed recovery. She also noticed Mr J had tried chasing Bastion 
for an update and there was an e-mail sent to them by Mr J at 15:36 requesting an update. 
And as Bastion hadnt provided assistance or told him what was happening, hed had no 
choice but to arrange other recovery. She therefore recommended Bastion pay Mr J the £80 
hed paid for recovery and compensate him £50 for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience cause. 
Bastion disagreed. It said verifications checks were needed, and therefore didnt think it had 
delayed Mr Js claim by as much as our investigator said. They also said if Mr J hadnt used 
their recovery, and they had attended the scene unnecessarily then Mr J would be liable for 
a £100 fee, as per the policy terms. However, Bastion said it had attended the scene but due 
to a battery fault hadnt been able to help Mr J. Bastion said Mr J then became abusive and 
has Bastion couldnt help they said they left the scene. 
Our investigator asked Mr J about this and he disagreed with it. He said as hed kept being 
told to wait and didnt know when Bastion would attend so hed called another recovery 
company at 15:53. Mr J said they arrived about 16:30 and dropped in him home about 17:30 
and that the fault with his car had been a brake switch. Mr J also provided his phone records 
to show this, the receipt for the £80 he paid for recovery and the receipt for the replacement 
part hed bought. Our investigator replied to Bastion to say she was more persuaded by Mr 
Js version of events and that her recommendation on how to put things right hadnt 
changed. 
Bastion disagreed and said the call recordings provided show they attended the scene. 
As Bastion disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr Js policy explain what needs to be done in the event of a claim, but dont 
provide a timeframe for when assistance will be provided. Within this section of the policy it 
says:
Once We have made all the arrangements We will contact You 
to advise who will be coming out to You and how long they are 
expected to take.
Ive looked though to see whether Bastion has done what its supposed to under the policy 
and in a fair and reasonable way. Its not in dispute that Mr J was originally told that Bastion 
should be with him within 60-90 minutes. Unfortunately, though this was not possible, and 
the estimated time of arrival was changed. 
The contact notes Bastions provided show the job created at 12:56. Ive considered 
Bastions comments about it needing some time to verify the claim before being able to 
dispatch assistance. However, Ive also noted the records show the call as being received at 
12:30, whereas Mr Js phone bill shows it as being made at 11:44. Im therefore persuaded 
there was a delay in dealing with Mr Js claim. 
While the policy doesnt specify a time to provide assistance, it does say Mr J will be made 
aware of how long they expect to take. Mr J had been told 60-90 minutes. I appreciate that 
sometimes things change and its not always possible for Bastion to help within that 
timeframe. But when that changes, I would expect Bastion to let Mr J know. 
I can also see Mr J called up for updates and e-mailed Bastion at 15:36. Ive listened to the 
calls Bastion has provided and Mr J is just told to keep waiting. As it had been over four 
hours at this point and Mr J didnt know when assistance would arrive, he arranged 
alternative recovery. I can see the policy excludes this unless agree by Bastion but 
considering Bastions poor communication with Mr J and that he wasnt being told when 
assistance would be provided, even after four hours. Im satisfied it would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances for Bastion to pay Mr J the £80 he paid for recovery. 
Ive also considered Bastions points about them attending the scene but not being able to 
help due to a battery fault. Bastion hasnt elaborated on why it couldnt help and considering 
Mr Js car needed recovery it would be reasonable for Bastion to explain why that wasnt 
possible. I can see Bastion have said Mr J became offensive, but from what Bastion said this 
is in response to them not providing assistance. So Im not persuaded that is the reason 
Bastion didnt recovery Mr Js car. 
Im also not persuaded that Bastion did attend Mr Js car when it broke down. I say this 
because Bastion said the fault was with the battery. However, Mr J has provided evidence 
the part which failed was a brake switch. Bastion said the call which shows they were at the 
scene was at 05:07, Im not persuaded by this time stamp as its in the early hours of the 
morning, so I think its more likely supposed to be 17:07. But this contradicts what Mr J has said about being recovered at 16:30 after calling for assistance for another recovery 
company at 15:53. Hes also provided his phone records to evidence when he called. 
Furthermore, Bastions internal records show the details of the job being updated at 17:56, 
which doesnt correspond with the time stamp on the call Bastion provided. 
As Mr Js testimony has been consistent and is supported by phone records, receipt and 
invoices. Im more persuaded by it and Im not persuaded Bastion did attend Mr Js broken-
down car. Ive also considered the point Bastion raised about Mr Js policy terms saying he 
will be liable for £100 if assistance is dispatched and then cancelled. The term says:
In the event that a recovery vehicle is dispatched by Us and You 
then cancel the request or are either not present at Your Vehicle 
when the recovery agent arrives at the scene, the vehicle is not 
accessible or no fault can be identified upon inspection, You will 
be charged £100 
However, Im not persuaded its fair and reasonable to charge it in this particular case. I say 
that because Mr J only arranged alternative cover because Bastion had taken longer than 
they said they would, and he didnt know when recovery would arrive. Im therefore not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to charge it. 
Taking everything into account Im satisfied Bastion hasnt acted fairly and reasonably for the 
reasons provided. They delayed Mr Js claim when it was initially made, to put this right they 
should pay Mr J £50 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by delaying his 
claim and not keeping him updated. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd to pay Mr J the £80 he paid for recovery and £50 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman