DRN-2644224
The complaint
S, a limited company (through one of its directors Mr M) complains HSBC UK Bank Plc will 
not refund all of the money it lost after falling victim to an email interception scam.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the wider circumstances of this complaint and the details were 
clearly set out by our Investigator when he wrote to the bank upholding Ss complaint. 
As such, I wont repeat them all here. In summary:
S was due to pay its contractor based overseas. The contractor emailed S details of 
the amounts it needed to pay across three invoices. They then engaged in further 
email discussion about a machine the contractor was going to install for S at a later 
date. Then S asked the contractor for its bank details so it could pay the money due.
S paid the first two invoices to the contractors account held in US dollars and those 
payments arrived without any problems. S emailed the contractor and explained it 
was unable to pay the third invoice in US dollars as requested and asked to send it in 
Pound Sterling instead. 
The next email S received came from fraudsters. It came from the same email 
address as the genuine correspondence. The fraudsters had intercepted the email 
chain and provided UK bank account details. On 30 August 2019, S made an online 
payment of £9,680.45 to settle the third invoice to the fraudsters account details. 
HSBC contacted S a few days after the payment was made and suggested it could 
be fraudulent. S was unaware that it had been scammed at this point and said it was 
a genuine payment to its contractor. 
The contractor then contacted S chasing the outstanding payment, uncovering the 
scam. S contacted HSBC for help. 
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code which is designed to reimburse customers, including micro-enterprise 
customers, that have fallen victim to an APP scam. The starting position under the Code is 
for a customer to be refunded in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC says one 
or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
When HSBC first considered the matter, it acknowledged it ought to have given S more 
warnings about the type of scam it fell victim to at the point the payment was made. But it 
thought that S ought to share responsibility for the loss because it hadnt met its requisite 
level of care. It said S did not have a reasonable basis for believing it was paying its 
contractor and felt it ought to have done more to verify the payment details were genuine 
before sending the funds. It refunded 50% of the money S had lost. 
Then the beneficiary bank that received the funds also accepted some liability in the matter 
and told HSBC it would contribute a third towards reimbursement. 
Mr M disagreed with the banks position not to refund all of the money that had been lost and 
referred Ss complaint to this service. 
At that point, HSBC said it had been wrong to consider Ss complaint under the CRM Code. 
It suggested S was too large to be a micro-enterprise. The beneficiary bank withdrew its 
offer to refund one third of the loss as it thought the CRM Code did not apply to S based on 
what HSBC had told it. 
Our Investigator considered the matter. He looked into Ss accounts and copies of its payroll 
documentation and was satisfied that S met both parts of the micro-enterprise test at the 
time it complained to HSBC.
He went on to consider whether HSBC should have reimbursed S in full under the terms of 
the CRM code and was not persuaded that any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement applied in the circumstances of this case. 
He concluded HSBC had not been able to establish that S didnt have a reasonable basis for 
believing it was making legitimate payments to its contractor. He pointed out that the 
fraudsters email came from the same email address and didnt have any obvious mistakes 
that could have alerted S that something was amiss. He explained it was in the same chain 
of emails as the legitimate correspondence and was written in a professional matter. He 
highlighted that it referred to previous communication and did not stand out. He thought it 
was plausible for an email purporting to be from the contractor to contain new account 
details for a UK based bank account given that S had indicated that it wanted to pay the third 
invoice in Sterling. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded that S should have called the contractor on a known 
phone number to check the details provided and he noted the logistical difficulties this would 
have posed given the difference in time zone.
HSBC accepted S was a micro-enterprise and credited its account with £1,613.40 in 
anticipation of it receiving funds from the beneficiary bank. But it still thought S should bear 
some liability for the loss. It said S was responsible for not taking the necessary precautions 
before making the payment. It felt S should have checked the details with the payee first and 
been more cautious when checking the email address, which it said was different to what S 
was expecting. It concluded by saying that irrespective of its fraud warnings, if S had 
checked the information before making the payment, the loss would not have happened.   
Mr M said he thought S had done everything the correct way. He pointed out he did not 
know fraudsters had taken over the conversation as the genuine contractor was receiving 
and responding to all emails up until that point. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded all of the money
S lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement
apply in the circumstances of this case. 
If HSBC had refunded the money in full when it ought reasonably to have done, the 
money would have more likely than not have remained in Ss current account as it 
typically maintains a high balance of working capital. So the bank should pay simple 
interest at the applicable account rate from the date it declined Ss claim under the 
CRM Code to the date of payment. If the account is not interest bearing, there is no 
interest due to S. 
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about whether S had a reasonable
basis for believing the correspondence to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to reach 
a different view. In particular, I am not persuaded that S failed to take the requisite level of 
care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
Im satisfied HSBC has not shown that S lacked a reasonable basis of belief because:
S was expecting to receive an email from its contractor and was expecting to discuss 
payment of an outstanding invoice. They had been in regular communication by 
email and the receipt of an email requesting a payment to UK bank details did not 
cause any concern given S had indicated it wanted to pay the balance in Sterling. 
This was a sophisticated fraud. The fraudsters correspondence was no different to 
the legitimate emails S had received from its contractor and appeared within the 
same chain of genuine correspondence. I think it is reasonable that it went 
undetected by S.
Email had been the main channel of communication between S and its contractor. 
I dont think S should have had any reason to doubt that the email was a genuine 
one, especially as S had paid the two earlier invoices sent earlier in the chain 
successfully. There was no apparent reason for S to check any further. S thought it 
was communicating with the genuine contractor and that the payment details had 
been sent by them. 
HSBC has argued that the email address from the fraudster was different and S 
should have noticed that. Ive looked carefully at the copies of correspondence that S 
has provided and I cant see that there was any discernible difference between the 
email address used for genuine communication with the contractor and the email 
address used by the fraudster. In any case, S was not aware of the possibility of a 
fraudster being able to pose as its contractor in the middle of a chain of genuine 
email correspondence, whether using the same or a similar email address. 
The mere fact that S could have checked the account details over the phone with the 
contractor does not equate to a finding that it lacked a reasonable basis for belief. 
Im satisfied that S had no particular reason to find the payment request unusual, did 
not doubt its authenticity and wasnt unreasonable in doing so.
For completeness, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that S did not follow its own 
internal procedures for the approval of payments or that following those procedures would 
have been effective in preventing this APP scam. Nor have I seen any evidence to suggest 
this scam was successful because S acted in a grossly negligent manner. Overall, I am persuaded that S met its requisite level of care and I dont believe HSBC has 
established it was able to choose not to refund it under the CRM Code. In the 
circumstances, I think it ought to have fully refunded S under the provisions of the CRM 
Code and so it should fairly and reasonably refund the remainder of that loss now. 
Putting things right
Ive found that S ought to have been fully refunded under the CRM Code. 
I therefore require that HSBC pays S:
The remainder of the money it lost  £3,226.82
Simple interest per year on that amount at the applicable current account rate from 
the date it declined Ss full claim under the CRM Code to the date of payment, less 
any tax lawfully deductible. If the account is not interest bearing at the relevant times, 
there is no interest due to S. 
My final decision
I uphold Ss complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman