DRN-2691425
The complaint
 Mr As complained that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very (SD) didnt 
process a payment he made to clear a buy now, pay later arrangement  meaning he was 
charged interest on what hed spent.
 
What happened
Mr A has an account with SD which he can use to buy goods on credit.  Certain items are 
available on a buy now, pay later (BNPL) basis.  Mr A regularly uses the BNPL facility 
when he shops.
Payment for goods bought on a BNPL basis can be made through SDs website or over the 
phone.  Consumers have to specifically allocate their payment to the BNPL purchases.
In the first half of 2019, Mr A used the BNPL facility to buy goods.  The BNPL period ended 
on 21 October 2019.
Mr A made a payment for the goods in early September, to avoid interest being added to his 
account.  But the payment wasnt credited to the account, so SD started to add interest to 
the unpaid amount.  Mr A says he didnt find out about this until the middle of 2020.
Mr A complained to SD.  He asked them to accept payment of the amount hed borrowed on 
BNPL and to waive the interest.  SD considered his complaint and rejected it.  They 
explained that no payment was received before the BNPL period expired.  And they said it 
was Mr As responsibility to check that the payment was received and allocated as hed 
intended.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with SDs response.  So he brought his complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it but didnt think that SD had done anything wrong  so they didnt 
need to do anything differently to resolve Mr As complaint.
After the investigator had shared his view, Mr A provided evidence from his bank that SD 
hadnt taken his payment  which was re-credited to his bank account in early October.  
When the investigator told SD about this, they offered to refund him interest of £17.87.  But 
they refused to refund any more interest than this, because they said that Mr A wouldve 
known his payment hadnt gone through when it was re-credited to his bank account.
Our investigator thought this was a reasonable offer.  But Mr A still thought SD should refund 
all the interest that had accrued in respect of the payment.  So Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr As complaint  but Im not directing SD to do more than 
theyve already offered to do to resolve his complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr As told us that hes a regular user of the BNPL facility on his account.  And hes familiar 
with how it works and how to make sure payments are allocated as he wants them to be.  
Hes confident that he made the payment correctly in early September to clear what he owed 
on BNPL before it expired on 21 October.
Ive no doubt Mr A did everything he shouldve done to make the payment.  I dont think its 
his fault it didnt go where he expected it to.  An error clearly occurred.
That happens from time to time.  And, while that wasnt Mr As fault, that doesnt mean I can 
say that SD are wholly responsible for everything that happened after that.
SD sent Mr A statements every month, showing the position of his account.  Ive seen copies 
of these statements, as well as Mr As bank statements for September and October 2019.  
The SD statement for the end of September 2019 shows Mr A still has to pay off the BNPL 
facility due to end on 21 October.  And it warns him, that if he doesnt do that, interest will be 
charged.  I wouldnt have expected the statement to show this if the payment Mr A made in 
early September had been credited.  I think this wouldve alerted Mr A to the fact that all was 
not as he thought.
And I think this is supported by the information on Mr As bank statement.  That shows his 
payment was re-credited to his account on 2 October  almost three weeks before the BNPL 
period expired.
I dont think that necessarily means Mr A wouldve known the payment had been re-credited 
in time to make it again before 21 October, because that means hed have had to check his 
bank account in between receiving his statements.  Ive no evidence that he did that  nor 
can I say he shouldve done.  
But I do think that, once he received his October bank statement, Mr A would have seen the 
payment hadnt gone through  and could have made it again to avoid any more interest 
being added to what he owed.  
Mr A says he didnt realise the payment hadnt gone through until the middle of 2020.  Ive 
thought about that.  But Ive seen that SD sent him statements every month.  And the bank 
statements Ive seen show theyre also sent monthly.  So Im satisfied that Mr A was given 
information from which he could see the payment hadnt been made.  I cant say SD are 
responsible for the interest that accrued if Mr A didnt review that information.
So I think SD should do as theyve offered, and refund Mr A the interest of £17.87.  But I 
dont think they need to do more than that to resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr As complaint and directing Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited, trading as Very to refund him the £17.87 theyve previously 
offered him.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman