DRN-2970739
The complaint
Mr J complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Fiscale Financial Services Limited 
(Fiscale) to transfer deferred benefits from his Defined Benefit (DB) pension with
British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In late 2016, Mr J contacted Fiscale for advice on his pension. Fiscale explained they did not 
have the necessary permissions to advise Mr J on DB pension transfers as this was a 
specialist area. However, they said they could refer his case to a financial adviser who had 
the necessary permissions to undertake this type of work. Mr J agreed and Fiscale referred 
him to another firm, John Coldwell Pensions and Investments Limited (JC).
Mr J was subsequently advised by JC to transfer his DB benefits to a personal pension.
After the transfer, Fiscale advised Mr J on his investments within his new pension plan.
Fiscale became the ongoing adviser on Mr Js pension plan.
Mr J complained both to Fiscale and JC in 2020 about the advice he received. He said both
firms are responsible for his DB transfer and any potential losses suffered. He said they both
encouraged him to transfer. Fiscale rejected his complaint and said they didnt provide Mr J
with any advice about transferring his DB pension.
Mr J referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered his
complaint but didnt uphold it. She didnt think Fiscale were responsible for any losses Mr J
might have suffered by transferring his DB pension.
Mr J disagreed and so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js representatives say Fiscale and JC should both be liable for his losses. They
say both firms advised him to transfer and there was a joint venture between the firms. They
say Fiscale failed to act in Mr Js best interest and treated him unfairly by knowingly
collaborating in a manner that led to unsuitable advice.
JC is in liquidation, so I cant consider the complaint against them. I carefully considered
whether Fiscale should be held responsible for Mr Js losses here in some form, however I
dont think they should.
I appreciate that Mr J is unhappy that he was advised to transfer out of his BSPS scheme,
however the firm responsible for this advice is JC. They were the firm who had the relevant
permissions and provided the formal recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme. Its
worth remembering that Mr J could not have transferred his DB pension without JCs
advice.
I dont know what exactly was discussed between Fiscale and Mr J. Mr J says Fiscale 
verbally advised him. I havent seen evidence that Fiscale actually recommended Mr J to 
transfer. All the documents Ive seen make it clear they explained to Mr J that it was JC who 
would advise him.
However, Fiscale became the ongoing advisers on Mr Js new pension and were charging 
ongoing advice fees. So they may have been hoping Mr J would transfer. Ive also 
considered the possibility that Fiscale inadvertently strayed into advice, even though I 
havent seen any evidence to say that this is what happened. However, even if they did, in 
my view none of their interactions with Mr J and possible failures in this regard ultimately 
caused the potential losses he suffered.
Fiscale did not have the required permissions to give advice on a DB pension transfer, so
they couldnt be expected to recommend Mr J not to transfer. I think there was nothing
generally wrong with referring Mr J on to a firm who could provide advice on his DB
pension.
Mr Js representatives say Fiscale referred a number of clients to JC and most were
advised to transfer out. However, even if this was the case, I think on balance its more likely
they referred customers to JC on the understanding they would provide suitable advice
rather than on the premise that JC would recommend a transfer whether it was suitable
or not. And its acceptable for one firm to provide transfer advice and for another to provide
investment advice.
I dont think its reasonable to expect that a firm who does not have permissions to provide
DB pension transfer advice should identify whether advice given by a firm who does have
those permissions was unsuitable. I think they were allowed to expect and rely on JC,
who were regulated and had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary
qualifications, to provide suitable advice.
It was ultimately JCs obligation to provide Mr J with independent and suitable advice.
And if it wasnt suitable for Mr J to transfer JC should, as the experts in this field, have
clearly told him so and provided reasons why. If they had done so, I dont think any
discussions with Fiscale would have likely made Mr J go against this advice.
In summary, Im satisfied it was JCs positive recommendation that caused Mr J to
transfer and that they are fully responsible for any losses caused by the transfer.
I dont think Mr Js potential losses here are caused by Fiscales actions and so I dontconsider it fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman