DRN-3004594
The complaint
Ms H complains that PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA)wouldnt allow her to reject a car 
acquired initially under a Hire Purchase Agreement. She would like to reject the car and be 
compensated for the stress and inconvenience
What happened
Ms H took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with PSA in November 2018 for a 2 year and 8 
months old car with 62,499 miles on the clock. She says there were several issues with the 
car which were all dealt with under warranty.
However, in March 2020, by which time the mileage was 90,000, the oil light started to 
illuminate, and the car was using more oil than it should. At this point Ms H says she settled 
the Hire Purchase Agreement and moved to a Conditional Sale Agreement with PSA.
In August 2020 she says the car started to judder and a local garage diagnosed a major 
engine fault. She says there was also a problem with the windscreen and computer touch 
screen. Ms H says at this point she contacted PSA who she says agreed to allow her to 
reject the car but then changed its mind.
In the course of her complaint to us Ms H additionally complained of the time it took PSA to 
respond to her initial complaint, a recall notice on the car and financial problems 
exacerbated by PSA taking approximately a year to repossess her car.
PSA said there were no grounds to allow Ms H to reject the car, it had discussed as a 
gesture of goodwill a buy back of the car by the dealership, but it had not agreed to this.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He issued three views in which he found that it 
was likely there was a problem with the car, but Ms H hadnt provided any actual evidence. 
So, given the age and mileage of the car he thought any issues were likely to be down to 
wear and tear for which PSA would not be responsible.
He didnt find any evidence PSA agreed to allow rejection of the car  more that, as a 
gesture of goodwill, it tried to help Ms H by discussing a possibility of the dealership buying 
the car back which it didnt agree to do.
He found PSA had sent a letter explaining the investigation was taking longer than the usual 
eight weeks we expect a business to take to investigate. And that its customer notes showed 
regular contact with Ms H.
He noted the recall notice related to a necessary software update relating the braking 
system and a check on the brake vacuum pump and timing belt. He didnt feel this notice 
impacted on PSAs obligations with the car since there was no actual evidence of a fault.
Ms H didnt accept these views. She still felt that PSA had committed to allowing her to reject 
the car, had not been responsive to her and that the recall notice was a major issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H feels strongly about her complaint and I do appreciate she is  going to be disappointed 
as I have broadly reached the same conclusions as our investigator.
As Ms H has raised several issues I think the best way to address these is to deal with each 
in turn.
Faults with the car 
I am conscious Ms H took out an agreement for a used car with over 62,000 miles on the 
clock. As such she could reasonably expect there to be more wear and tear with such a car 
than had she taken out an agreement for a new car. Having said that we do expect cars to 
be fit for purpose the point of sale.
When issues arise within six months of having a vehicle, we usually say its the business 
responsibility to see if these were present or developing at the point of sale. If so, we would 
usually expect the business to resolve these.
I am aware that some issues did arise within six months. As I understand it these were all 
resolved at no cost to Ms H which is what I would have expected to happen. As Ms H didnt 
make any complaint at the time I have to assume she was happy with the repairs. I havent 
seen any evidence that, at that time, she tried to exercise her right to reject the car within 30 
days on proof of an actual fault and wasnt able to do so she seems to have accepted 
repairs.
The further issues with the car then occurred in March 2020 when the oil light started to 
illuminate and in August 2020 the car started to judder. At this point Ms H has also told us 
she had a problem with the windscreen wiper and touch screen computer
As Ms H took out her original agreement in November 2018 these issues arose well over  six 
months later. So, the onus was on her to show there was a problem present or developing at 
the point of sale, but she hasnt done so.  She hasnt provided any evidence to confirm the 
issues she has complained of, whether they relate to initial repairs or whether they could be 
classed as point of sale issues. So, I dont feel there is any basis to say that Ms H should 
have been able to reject the car on this basis- she simply hasnt evidenced any fault for 
which PSA could be responsible.
Agreement to reject the car
I appreciate Ms H believes that PSA offered to allow her to end her agreement by rejecting 
the car and at no cost to herself.
PSA has told us that was not the case and its customer notes support this. I have read these 
notes and it seems to me that PSA was trying to resolve the problem, as a gesture of 
goodwill, by discussing with the dealership if it would buy the car back. And buying a car 
back isnt the same as allowing a customer to reject a car.
Unfortunately, the dealership didnt agree to this. And given no faults had been proven PSA 
was under no obligation to allow rejection.I appreciate this situation has been very stressful for Ms H. I think its most likely she 
misunderstood PSAs suggestion to see if the dealership would buy the car back. Its clear to 
me from the customer notes that PSA hadnt said Ms H could reject the car. I would be 
surprised if it had given this commitment as there were no grounds for it to feel obliged to do 
so. So, I dont feel PSA were wrong not to allow rejection when its attempts to find a 
resolution with the dealership didnt work out.
Recall notice
Its unfortunate but recall notices do happen.
I have read the detail of the recall notice  it doesnt indicate to me any point of sale issue for 
which PSA should be responsible. It gives advice on maintenance of the car including a 
timescale for replacing the timing belt (after 62,500 miles or six years of use). As I 
understand it the timing belt was replaced as one of the first issues that Ms H had. I have no 
evidence that replacement was faulty. And whilst I appreciate getting a recall notice might be 
of concern, its not in itself a reason to allow a car to be rejected.
Response by PSA
I appreciate PSA couldnt fully investigate Ms Hs complaint within our usual expected eight-
week timescale. Its unfortunate but that does sometimes happen. In these situations, we 
expect business to explain there will be a delay. I have seen the letter PSA sent Ms H at 
eight weeks to say it wasnt in a position yet to make a finding on her complaint and it gave 
referral details to our service. Whilst I appreciate the frustration for Ms H I think PSAs 
actions were appropriate.
Ms H has also commented on lack of contact generally from PSA. I would agree with our 
investigator that that isnt indicated from the customer notes that we have seen. I appreciate 
customers might have different expectations as to what is reasonable in terms of contact, but 
it seems to me that PSA has been responsive to Ms H and has tried to help her.
Financial hardship
Ms H has told us she doesnt think that PSA has done enough to help her when she couldnt 
make payments. 
One point she has made is that PSA only repossessed and sold her car offsetting the 
payment received against her debt in July 2021 almost a year after she first complained to 
PSA. We wouldnt usually expect a business to repossess a car as soon as an issue arises  
its not always in the best interests of the consumer to do so. In this case Ms H had put in a 
complaint about faults with the car and not being allowed to reject the car when she 
understood that had been offered to her. PSA needed time to investigate. I dont think its 
actions were unreasonable
Looking back over the history of Ms Hs agreement I can see the reason for her changing 
agreements in July 2020 was to give her a payment holiday. I dont know the details of this, 
but payment holidays are usually because a consumer has some financial problems. I am 
not sure why this holiday was facilitated by a change in contract, but a payment holiday 
would have helped Ms H if she was having financial problems at that time.
I think its also clear from the customer notes that PSA tried its best to get the dealership to 
buy back the car to help Ms H both by putting this suggestion to the dealership and by 
offering to offset some of the dealerships losses. Its unfortunate that the dealership couldnt 
agree to this The default notice and arrears letters sent to Ms H gave her details of external agencies to 
contact about financial difficulties. And our investigator, in his first view,  asked PSA to 
contact Ms H about her account. He also gave Ms H PSAs phone and email contact details 
in all his three views so she could contact PSA herself.
It does seem to me from the customer notes that PSA has tried to contact Ms H about her 
account.  If Ms H cant reach an agreement she feels is fair in terms of paying off the arrears 
on her account, she should first complain to PSA about this. If she isnt happy with PSAs 
response, she may then be able to bring a complaint specifically about this to us.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman