DRN-3507738
The complaint
Mr A has complained Mitsubishi HC Capital UK plc has applied a fraud-related marker to his 
record which they wont remove.
What happened
Mr A bought a ring in 2016. He was persuaded to apply for credit but was rejected. He 
wasnt concerned by this as he was always willing to pay by cash and did so. In 2021 he 
contacted the credit provider, now Mitsubishi, to query why there was a fraud-related marker 
in his name. This had been registered on CIFAS, the industry fraud database.
Mitsubishi confirmed Mr A had provided an incorrect address in 2016 which had led to his 
credit application being rejected. A marker was then applied to his record. Despite Mr A 
confirming why hed not provided the address related to his electoral roll entry, Mitsubishi 
believed theyd done nothing wrong.
Mr A brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator believed Mitsubishi couldnt show that Mr A had deliberately tried to mislead 
them. And therefore theyd not met the requirements to lodge the marker. This had obviously 
impacted Mr A and our investigator asked Mitsubishi to pay him £100 compensation.
Mitsubishi disagreed and believed we should consult CIFAS. This complaint has been 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Our investigator wrote a detailed view on 3 May 2022. I feel no need to rerun a lot of what 
was said there and the subsequent emails between our service and Mitsubishi.
It is clear what the requirements are prior to lodging a marker. Mitsubishi must be able to 
provide theres evidence Mr A was trying to mislead when he applied for credit in 2016.
Mitsubishi is unable to confirm what Mr A was asked about addresses in 2016. Hes told us 
he was asked about his current address which he provided. He was living with his partner at 
the time but had previously lived with his parents and this is where the electoral roll showed 
him as living.
I doubt very much Mr A was trying to mislead. Hed have known what the electoral roll 
showed so I see no reason to doubt what hes telling us that he was only asked about his 
current address. Mitsubishi has confirmed, as much as theyre able, that at no stage was 
Mr A queried about his address so had no opportunity to explain or put right what was being 
noted  and suspected  at the time.
Based on this evidence I have no idea what offense Mitsubishi think Mr A may have 
committed and what criminal charges they could bring with any reasonable hope of success. 
Mitsubishi has suggested we contact CIFAS to check with them. I have no need to do so as 
we consider CIFAS guidelines when were considering related cases. And Ive done this 
here.
Im satisfied Mitsubishi havent met the required guidelines to lodge a marker appropriately.
Putting things right
On this basis Im instructing Mitsubishi to remove the marker from Mr As record. 
Mr A has told us this has had a major impact on his ability to get employment but hasnt 
provided us with the evidence weve requested to show this. I cant fairly ask Mitsubishi to 
pay for loss of earnings without that evidence.
I do believe, however, that Mitsubishi should pay Mr A £100 in compensation for the trouble 
this has caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Mitsubishi HC Capital UK plc to:
Remove the fraud-related marker from Mr As record; and
Pay Mr A £100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman