DRN-4410671
The complaint
Mr G says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance
who Ill call BPF, unfairly declined his claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the
CCA) in relation to a timeshare he was sold in April 2018. He also says the loan wasnt
affordable for him and that BPF were therefore irresponsible to extend the credit.
Mr G has been represented by a professional representative who Ill call PR and he
entered into the timeshare agreement with his partner, but as the finance agreement
was in his sole name, I will refer only to Mr G or his representatives in this decision.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August. An extract from that provisional 
decision is set out below.
In April 2018 Mr G exchanged an existing timeshare membership for 60,000 points towards
a timeshare product with a company I will call L. He financed the cost of the points through
a fixed sum loan with BPF. That finance agreement was regulated by the CCA.
In June 2021 Mr G complained to BPF about problems he had encountered with the
timeshare product. There were a number of allegations and its not practical to list them all
here, but I have taken note of them. He said the nature of the timeshare had been
misrepresented to him, so he was able to make a claim against the lender under section 75
of the CCA. He also said that there was an unfair debtor-creditor-supplier-relationship under
section 140A of the CCA and that the lender had been irresponsible to provide him with
credit he couldnt afford.
Our investigator disagreed. He didnt think thered been a misrepresentation or that there
was evidence of an unfair relationship, and he wasnt persuaded there was sufficient
evidence that the loan was unaffordable for Mr G.
PR didnt think the investigator had provided sufficiently detailed reasoning about why the
claim should fail. They said this Service were familiar with other similar complaints from
consumers of systematic mis-selling and Mr G hadnt been provided with key information he
should have been provided with until it was too late. They explained that the sales
presentation was high pressured, and Mr G wasnt given sufficient time to read the
documentation provided before agreeing to it. They went on to repeat many of the
misrepresentations they had previously made and to provide further reasoning as to why
they believed there had been an unfair relationship. With regard to the allegation of
irresponsible lending, they didnt think BPF had taken into account the ongoing maintenance
fees when considering if the loan was affordable for Mr G.
Mr G and the PR therefore asked for a decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision here as its been some time since the investigator provided
his view and I cant see weve responded to all of the issues in the case.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards;
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my decision.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as was the
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement
has a right to make the same claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Section 56 of the CCA is relevant in the context of section 140A of the CCA that Mr G also
relies on, as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of the credit broker or supplier will be
deemed to be the responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court
in deciding whether an unfair relationship exists between Mr G and BPF.
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a claim Mr G may have under sections 75 or 140A
but Im required to take the provisions into account when deciding whether BPF would be
reasonable to reject Mr Gs claims.
The claim under section 75 of the CCA
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to
enter into the contract.
This wasnt Mr Gs first transaction with the supplier. Hed been a member of a timeshare
club since 2017. I think, by 2018, Mr G would be well aware of how the general timeshare
product scheme worked. I dont think many of the issues Mr G claims were misrepresented
to him initially can fairly be considered to have been significant reasons why he was
persuaded to enter into an agreement for further points, as by that time hed have significant
experience of the system and how it worked. Some of the misrepresentations Mr G
complains of therefore, in my opinion, fade away, but Ill consider what I think are the more
pertinent ones here.
Mr G said he attended the presentation in 2018 during a holiday hed booked through the
timeshare that was active at that time. So, I think he would have been aware that the resortswerent exclusive. I cant see that the documentation suggests the accommodation is
exclusive either.
Mr G explains one reason for taking out additional points in 2018 was that he was persuaded
he would be able to convert his points to ownership of a unit of accommodation, and that
would mean he no longer had to pay maintenance fees.
The Memorandum of Understanding explained that three years after the finance was paid
Mr G would be entitled to trade in his points, at a maximum of 300,000 points per property,
against any future properties that may become available for sale through the supplier or its
partners.
That Memorandum went on to explain that points traded would be valued at €100 per 1,000
points and that any balance in the price of the property after the points had been attributed
would be paid by Mr G. It said that, in the event not all points are traded in, Mr G would
remain liable for the applicable annual fees for the remaining points.
Mr G didnt seek to purchase any property as he advised the supplier he was surrendering
his membership.
Im not persuaded that a significant reason Mr G was persuaded to enter the agreement for
points in 2018 was because he wanted to use them to purchase a property. I say that
because he sought to surrender his membership before that option could be invoked. And
the handling of a section 75 claim cant be determined according to a scenario that never
happened.
Mr G has provided a copy of a training manual that he says demonstrates how the product
was mis-sold. Weve been told that the training manual is from a company who ceased
trading in 2012. Im not persuaded that a training manual from several years before the
finance agreement was entered into, and from a supplier who had ceased trading well before
the Time of Sale, could fairly be considered representative of the suppliers processes when
Mr G entered into this agreement. I also know very little in terms of the documents
provenance. For all of those reasons, I dont think the training manual can fairly be relied
upon to suggest there was a misrepresentation here. I dont think a court would be likely to
conclude there was a misrepresentation on that basis either.
PR have referred me to similar complaints with similar facts and Im aware they have
provided lengthy submissions on those issues in the past. This Service considers each
complaint on its individual merits, and Im not persuaded the allegations made by other
clients of PR show that the purchase agreement and/or the finance agreement that funded it,
have been misrepresented to Mr G.
PR have also suggested we should take the same approach in this decision as we did in a
case involving a particular type of asset backed timeshare, known in the industry as a
fractional ownership timeshare. Such timeshares offered prospective members the same
sort of holiday rights commonly associated with timeshares more generally. But they also
offered prospective members a share in the ownership of a specific property. But that isnt
the type of timeshare purchased by Mr G. While fractional and non-fractional timeshares
may have been sold in a similar way, the fact that the non-fractional timeshares werent
designed with an investment element front and centre is an important distinction when
determining what a fair and reasonable outcome to a complaint involving a non-fractional
timeshare might look like.
The claim under section 140A of the CCAS.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement).
I do not consider it likely that a court would conclude that BPFs acts and/or omissions, or
those of the supplier as agents of BPF, generated an unfair debtor  creditor relationship.
The crux of Mr Gs argument is the combined effect of a number of clauses within the
timeshare agreement were not explained clearly and key information, including warnings of
the risks associated with the purchase, and the impact of the foreclosure clause within the
agreement, created an unfair relationship.
Mr G has referenced the case of Link Financial v Wilson [2014] which he says shows a court
agreed that a similar foreclosure clause to the one in his agreement, gave rise to an unfair
relationship. In that judgment it was held that such a term was unfair under the Unfair Terms
in Consumer Contracts Regulations (1999). However, as Mr G surrendered his membership
in recent years, and as I cant see that the terms governing suspension and termination were
operated unfairly against them, I am not persuaded that the mere existence of a similar
foreclosure term in Mr Gs agreement, when it wasnt operated unfairly and couldnt have
been after the membership was surrendered, would likely lead a court to find the debtor-
creditor relationship was unfair on this occasion.
Mr G has explained that relevant legislation (under The Timeshare, Holiday Products,
Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010) required the supplier to give him key
information. He said that key information was provided too late and that created an unfair
relationship. Its Mr Gs suggestion that the information was provided but only at the end of
the sales presentation, I think its therefore likely the information would also have been
provided to him, at some point, when he attended the presentation the year before and that
he therefore would have been familiar with that information throughout the antecedent
negotiations, as was required. I dont therefore think any unfair relationship was created.
Mr G says the supplier didnt tell him how any subsequent increases in maintenance or
property point trade in values would be calculated. Ive not seen evidence of how these costs
increased and its possible the supplier didnt give Mr G sufficient information, in good time.
But even if that was the case, Mr G had been an existing member, albeit of another scheme,
for a year by the time he entered into this new agreement. So, I think his experience as a
member was likely to have given him a reasonable amount of insight into what the ongoing
costs and increases were like, and might be like, going forward and I dont think a court
would therefore be likely to consider there was an unfair relationship.
I have also considered the matter of commission in relation to this transaction. I dont think
the fact that BPF may have paid the Supplier commission was incompatible with its role in
the transaction. The Supplier wasnt acting as agent of Mr G but as the supplier of
contractual rights he obtained under the purchase agreement. And, in relation to the loan,
based on what Ive seen, I dont think it was the Suppliers role to make an impartial or
disinterested recommendation or to give Mr G advice or information on that basis. Whats
more, I havent seen any persuasive evidence that the typical amounts of commission paid
by BPF to suppliers (like the Supplier) when loans were interest bearing (as was the case on
this occasion) was likely to be high enough to create an unfair debtor-creditor relationship
given the circumstances of this particular complaint. I think its unlikely a court would find that
the failure to disclose commission in this case created an unfair relationship under s.140A.
And as I dont think the Supplier was acting as an agent of Mr G, I dont think it was its role
to make an impartial recommendation about the credit supplier or to provide alternative
suppliers. And even if its right to suggest that Mr G should have been presented with a
range of lenders to choose from, theres little to nothing to demonstrate that he has suffereda financial loss because he entered into a credit agreement with BPF rather than another
lender. And, for that reason, Im not persuaded that created or contributed to an unfair
relationship on this occasion given the facts and circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says there was a failure on the suppliers part to warn him that the option to purchase
property was of no real, or enforceable, benefit. I dont think there is evidence the option to
purchase, or partially purchase, a property wasnt realisable. As Mr G didnt seek to exercise
that option its difficult to suggest there is evidence to that effect.
Mr G also says that the sale was conducted in a way which meant he and his partner felt
they had to purchase the timeshare. Ive thought about this, we know it is common that these
sales often lasted for a number of hours and a focus was placed on the benefits of the
timeshare and on overcoming any objections. But Mr G was not a new customer, hed
attended a similar presentation before and I think with this in mind, he would already have
been likely to be familiar with the sales tactics employed and would have been likely to know
he could simply walk away.
Overall, therefore, I dont think a court would likely conclude that the relationship between
Mr G and BPF was unfair based on the information provided. So, for that reason, I dont
think BPF has to do anything further in relation to Mr Gs claim under s.140A CCA.
Was the loan irresponsible?
Mr G says that BPF was in breach of its obligations to carry out an adequate credit
assessment to determine whether he could afford to repay the loan. He says that they had
strict obligations to complete a creditworthiness check and failed to undertake those
obligations.
However, when considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration is
whether the borrowing was likely to prove unaffordable in practice and whether the
complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So even if I
was persuaded that BPF did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), for me
to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that the credit
granted by them was likely to be unaffordable and that Mr G suffered a loss as a result. Ive
not been provided with sufficient evidence from Mr G to suggest he didnt have enough
disposable income to sustainably afford repayments against this loan. Hes explained that
his income was £55,000 at the time (about £3,300 per month net of tax and National
insurance) and that he was paying £600 towards a mortgage and about £1,000 towards
credit card debt. I dont think that limited information would suggest he didnt have sufficient
income to sustainably afford repayments. I dont therefore think it would be reasonable to
suggest BPF was irresponsible when providing the credit.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Further evidence and/or comments
Neither Mr G nor BPF provided any additional comments or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive not been provided with any additional information that would lead me to change my 
provisional decision on this complaint. My provisional decision, therefore, becomes my final 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman