DRN-4020058
The complaint
The estate of Mrs D (the estate) complains that Halifax did not treat them fairly with the 
administration of Mrs Ds accounts when she passed away.
What happened
Mrs D died on 24 February 2022. On 28 February, one of the executors of her estate - who 
was also a Power of Attorney (POA) for the late Mrs D contacted Halifaxs bereavement 
services to inform them of Mrs Ds passing and that she was her executor and her next of 
kin. The estate says they were informed to get back in touch with Halifax once they had a 
copy of the death certificate. The estate says that they received a letter asking them to get in 
touch with Halifax, so they could discuss what they needed to do next.
The estate rang Halifax on 14 March 2022, however, they said that the call handler told an 
executor that they couldnt speak to her and that she needed to go into a Halifax branch to 
prove her identity before they could talk to her. The executor explained to the call handler 
that she was an executor and the next of kin to the late Mrs D and she had already proved 
her identity when the POA was set up, but she was told she still had to visit the branch. The 
estate made a complaint to Halifax.
Halifax did not uphold the estates complaint. They said that on notification of the death of 
the late Mrs D, the POA ceased. They said that while a POA can be a representative of the 
customer, this doesnt mean they are a claimant or executor of the estate. Halifax said there 
is a separate bereavement process which requires the executor to complete a bereavement 
form and submit identification/verification documents, but they were unable to use the 
previous documents from the POA in case there had been any recent changes. Halifax 
confirmed that for the bereavement unit to complete their processes and for the estate of the 
late Mrs D to be completed, they would require her to make an appointment at her nearest 
branch as they still require the branch to confirm her identity. 
The estate made an appointment at the branch, but the next appointment was on 10 June 
2022. An executor visited the branch with all of her identification and the grant of probate 
and was told by the staff member that they would call the bereavement unit to confirm that 
she had seen all of her documents. The staff member told the executor that it could be up to 
31 days, so she asked for the process to be expedited. The estate says the funds were 
received on 21 June 2022. The estate brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the estates complaint. She said the terms and conditions 
confirm the bereavement process and that a branch visit was required, so she wouldnt be 
asking Halifax to do anything further. She said that Halifax have acknowledged and 
apologised for the upset and inconvenience this caused, and they are looking to improve on 
making the process easier, as they appreciate the executors are going through what is 
already a difficult and upsetting time.
The estate asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint. They made a number of 
points. In summary they said they were happy to share documents such as the will and the 
grant of probate electronically, but Halifax werent interested in this. An executor said that 
her identity was unable to be verified over the phone and this was different to the other 
organisations she dealt with during this period. The estate said it took seven weeks to 
resolve the complaint which was too long. They asked how it was reasonable for the funds to 
be paid in June 2022 when Mrs D passed away in February 2022. An executor believed the 
POA made her a customer to all intents and purposes, and she believes she should have 
been treated the same as any other customer during what was a very difficult and 
distressing time. The estate says that Halifax should give them an apology for what 
happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I wish to pass my condolences to the estate as I appreciate what a difficult time 
they must have gone through. The estate has made a number of points to this service and 
Ive considered and read everything theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services 
role as a quick and informal body, Ill be focusing on the crux of their complaint in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable here.
I must explain to the estate that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity 
and as such, the issues theyve raised that relate directly to how Halifax have investigated 
their complaint, such as it taking seven weeks for an outcome do not come under my powers 
to consider. But Halifax have eight weeks to respond to a complaint before giving them 
referral rights to our service, so they did issue their response within this timeframe. 
Id like to explain to the estate that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what 
their bereavement procedures should be and when an executor is required to visit a branch 
or how they should interact with a former POA when their customer passes away. It would 
be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct 
Halifax to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. For this reason Im 
also unable to ask Halifax to accept items such as wills or a grant of probate electronically if 
this is not their normal procedure.
Ive considered what the estate has said about the POA making them the same as any other 
customer. But while I can sympathise with the difficult time theyve had here, a POA acts on 
behalf of a customer, not as an account holder directly. When the customer passes away, 
the POA ceases and therefore so does the POAs dealings with the bank in that capacity. 
Halifax explained in their final response letter that they were unable to use the identification 
documents from when the POA documents were originally provided as some of these details 
could have changed. Im satisfied that this is fair. Not only might some of the details have 
changed, but those documents could have expired also and therefore be invalid. Although 
its unlikely that either of these things happened in this instance - based on the short time 
that the POA was registered to Mrs Ds death, however, Halifax need to be satisfied that 
they were dealing with the correct people here and they have followed their verification 
process. A POA is not always an executor or a next of kin, so Halifax have controls in place 
to satisfy themselves they are dealing with the correct parties.
Ive considered what the estate have said about how long it took to get the funds. But the 
grant of probate was issued on 3 May 2022, so it would be probable that it would have taken 
some time to release the funds despite the late Mrs D passing away in February. It appears 
the call handler set out to the estate in March that a branch visit would be necessary when 
they couldnt go through identification over the phone. So even if the grant of probate wasnt 
needed, then the estate could have made an appointment prior to receiving their final 
response letter to their complaint. Ive considered what the estate has said about Halifax being the only company who havent 
been able to deal with them over the phone. But I can only look at Halifaxs processes and 
not any other companies processes as they may verify an executor differently to Halifax 
would do this. I can see that Halifax did try to verify an executors identity through a third 
party system on 14 March 2022. The notes state there was insufficient information to 
proceed, and they tried three times and triple checked the information. But as they were 
unable to verify her this way they advised her that she would need to visit the branch. So 
they tried to verify an executors identity electronically, but as they were unable to do so, 
they asked her to visit the branch with the required identification, Im satisfied this was fair to 
ensure the relevant documents were seen, although I understand that the executor had a lot 
to sort out with the estate at the time and this would have added to her things to do at an 
upsetting time. But I cant say it was wrong for Halifax to ask her to do this.
The estate has asked for an apology from Halifax. Our investigator shared with the estate 
the information she relied on when she issued her view of the complaint. The estate would 
have seen on this information that Halifax have said we are very sorry to have caused (an 
executor) any upset due to our processes. While Halifax did not originally say this direct to 
the estate, I hope our investigator sharing this evidence will show the estate that Halifax say 
they are very sorry to have caused the estate any upset due to their processes. It would not 
be proportionate to ask Halifax to apologise again when they have already done so. And the 
estate now has this apology. So it follows that I dont require Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman