DRN-3092922
The complaint
Miss W complains that Vehicle Credit Limited (Vehicle Credit) irresponsibly granted her a 
loan she couldnt afford to repay.
 
What happened
In May 2017, Miss W acquired a car and financed it through a hire purchase agreement with 
Vehicle Credit. Miss W was required to make 41 monthly repayments of £325.17, with a final 
optional payment of £349.98 if she wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. The 
total repayable under the agreement was £13,681.95.
Miss W says that Vehicle Credit didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Vehicle Credit didnt agree. It said 
that it carried out a thorough assessment which included validating Miss Ws income and 
reviewing her credit file. It also explained that it had asked Miss W about her expenditure 
and even after adding some leeway for additional expenditure it thought the borrowing was 
affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Vehicle Credit ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable for Miss W.
Vehicle Credit didnt agree and said the checks it completed were carried out in line with the 
information and proofs provided by Miss W.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vehicle Credit will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
The credit check Vehicle Credit completed showed that Miss W had two accounts that were 
in default at the time of her application and shed also recently taken out a high cost loan. I 
think this ought to have indicated that Miss W was likely to be struggling financially. It 
therefore would have been proportionate for Vehicle Credit to have got a more thorough 
understanding of Miss Ws financial circumstances before lending.
I think it would have been proportionate for Vehicle Credit to have verified Miss Ws financial 
circumstances. One way Vehicle Credit could have done that was by requesting copies of 
her bank statements. Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the 
lending decision. 
The statements show that Miss Ws committed expenditure was about £1,656 when things 
like her rent, food, childcare, petrol, insurance, and credit commitments were taken into 
account. Her income was about £1,967 and this demonstrates that Miss W didnt have 
enough disposable income to afford the £325.17 monthly payments due on this new finance 
agreement. I think its likely proportionate checks would have revealed this to Vehicle Credit, 
it therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
Putting things right
As I dont think Vehicle Credit ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund 
all the payments Miss W has made. However, Miss W did have use of the car for around 41 
months, so I think its fair she pays for that use. But Im not persuaded that monthly 
repayments of over £325 are a fair reflection of what fair usage would be. This is because a 
proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, 
Miss Ws likely overall usage of the car and what her costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if she didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Miss W should pay is £202 
for each month she had use of the car. This means Vehicle Credit can only ask her to repay 
a total of £8,284 (the cash price of the car). Anything Miss W has paid in excess of that 
amount should be treated as an overpayment. 
To settle Miss Ws complaint Vehicle Credit Limited should do the following:
Refund any payments Miss W has made in excess of £8,284, representing the 
original cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date 
of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ws credit file regarding the 
agreement.
If there any arrears after the settlement has been calculated, Vehicle Credit Limited
should arrange an affordable repayment plan. And treat Miss W with forbearance and 
due consideration.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Vehicle Credit to take off tax from this interest. Vehicle 
Credit must give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Vehicle Credit Limited to put things right in the manner set 
out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman