DRN-3465825
The complaint
X complains about Legal and General Assurance Society Limited declining her claim for 
income protection.
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the background to this complaint so the below is only a 
summary of what happened. 
X has access to a group income protection policy through her employer. In March 2021 she 
made a claim through it and explained shed been unable to work since January 2021 
because of anxiety, rheumatic heart disease, and multiple strokes. 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (Legal and General) declined the claim. It 
said the available medical evidence hadnt demonstrated a significant incapacity in Xs 
medical conditions so as to cause incapacity in line with the policy terms. And rather, work-
related issues appeared to be the primary barrier to matters in her claim. 
X complained and explained why she felt she had demonstrated incapacity. But Legal and 
General maintained its position so X referred her complaint to this service and one of our 
investigators looked at what had happened. 
Our investigator didnt think Legal and General had declined the claim unfairly or 
unreasonably. X disagreed and provided further evidence, but that didnt change our 
investigators opinion and X asked that her complaint be decided by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the obligations placed on it by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Insurance: 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook, Legal and General has a responsibility to consider claims 
both promptly and fairly, and to not reject them unreasonably. 
The group policy in this complaint is designed to provide a regular benefit in the event of an 
employee becoming incapacitated by illness or injury and unable to perform their own 
occupation. This is specifically defined in the terms and conditions as follows: 
Own occupation
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from 
performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the 
deferred period.
The insured members capacity to perform the essential duties will be determined whether 
or not that occupation remains available to him.
So it wouldnt have been enough for the available evidence to just establish that X was 
unwell. It would have needed to demonstrate that she was incapacitated from performing her 
own occupation throughout the deferred period because of illness or injury. 
X says the evidence did that, but having considered everything available I dont think Legal 
and General acted unfairly or unreasonably in this complaint. I think it considered the 
available evidence and fairly concluded X hadnt met the policy definition of incapacity 
throughout the deferred period. Without reciting everything, let me explain why:
X provided a personal statement which set out the history of her health and the 
impact of it on both her and her work. I thank X for taking the time to produce this. It 
is a detailed statement and describes why she feels it was her medical conditions 
that ultimately prevented her from working, but her testimony would need to be 
corroborated by supporting medical evidence too. 
Supporting statements were provided by Xs line manager and a colleague. These 
detailed their observations of Xs health and the impact of it on her work. X says she 
provided these as they were from people who had known her for years and who had 
seen her deterioration for themselves, even when she did not want to admit it. I thank 
Xs line manager and colleague for providing statements too, but they cannot be 
considered medical evidence in the circumstances of this complaint. Neither 
individual appears to have been clinically involved in Xs medical care. The 
statements are based on personal opinion and observation, and again, the 
testimonies within them would need to be corroborated by supporting medical 
evidence. 
An occupational health (OH) report found X unfit for work. I can understand why X 
says this further demonstrated her incapacity, but the report is largely based on her 
own self-reporting of matters. The report also set out that Xs reported anxiety was 
being triggered by her work and was no longer a significant issue for her since shed 
been away from the workplace. So, while the OH report adds additional context and 
opinion to the claim, I dont think it was unreasonable of Legal and General to find it 
did not demonstrate incapacity. 
A letter from Xs Consultant Interventional Cardiologist refers to an earlier 
echocardiogram showing evidence of left sided plural effusion in addition to Xs 
rheumatic mitral valve disease. It advises X had reported shortness of breath but that 
had mainly related to inclines and she did well on the flat, and there were no other 
symptoms from a cardiovascular perspective. The letter explains further investigation 
would probably be needed with a heart monitor to assess the atrial fibrillation and the 
ventricular response on Xs current medication. But no comments surrounding any 
impact on Xs ability or inability to work were made within it. So again, I cant fairly 
conclude that it was unreasonable of Legal and General to not consider this as 
evidence of incapacity either. 
X provided a variety of backdated medical evidence. Its not disputed that X has a 
number of health conditions, but the medical evidence provided here and which 
dates back to 1995 is not contemporaneous. It does not provide any detail or 
commentary on Xs health at the time of claim or throughout the deferred period. And 
so similarly, I dont think it was unreasonable of Legal and General to find it was not 
evidence of incapacity. X says she provided this evidence to show a progression and 
deterioration of her conditions. And that the lack of contemporaneous evidence came 
from consultants not being available in her area during the Covid-19 pandemic and 
her experiencing difficulties getting appointments with her GP. But at the point of 
claiming, the onus to demonstrate incapacity was on X. And while I appreciate what X has said, I cant fairly conclude that Legal and General acted unreasonably in 
deciding that backdated medical evidence did not demonstrate current incapacity.   
X provided a letter from her GP. It set out that both X and her historic medical 
information and notes had reviewed by the GP at the time of the letter being written. 
And that having done so the GP felt X would have had difficulty performing in her role 
because of her medical condition and the difficulties shed experienced in providing 
responses to this service post-view. The GP letter helpfully provided a retrospective 
opinion on matters. But it did not specifically address Xs health or ability at the time 
of her claim or throughout the deferred period. So again, and I realise X will be 
further disappointed by this, I dont think it was unreasonable of Legal and General to 
determine it did not demonstrate incapacity either.   
It is not disputed that X suffers from a number of different medical conditions. The findings I 
have made above are in no way intended to take away from that, nor the impact X says 
those conditions have had on her. I empathise with Xs situation and acknowledge 
everything she has told us. But based on the evidence made available to it I dont think Legal 
and General acted unfairly or unreasonably in determining incapacity had not been 
demonstrated. I will not be interfering with its position on this occasion. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman