DRN-2720221
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way MAPFRE Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. (MAPFRE) handled a claim made on their travel insurance 
policy (the policy).
What happened
Mr and Mrs S  along with their son  were due to travel abroad on 22 May 2020. They were 
due to be away for almost three weeks, but their holiday was cancelled due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
They booked their flights, accommodation and some activities separately. They were able to 
get refunds for most of their pre-paid costs. 
Mr and Mrs S made a claim on the policy on 21 May 2020. At the time, they couldnt get a 
refund for their flights  only an offer to move the flights to a later date. They wanted 
MAPFRE to cover the cost of the flights and the costs they incurred booking a particular 
excursion and accommodation. 
By the time they complained to our Service in July 2020, MAPFRE hadnt assessed the 
claim made on the policy. However, it did confirm towards the end of October 2020 that the 
claim had been declined on the basis that the flights would be re-issued at a later date (and 
that Mrs S had been able to get back the other costs being claimed elsewhere).
Mr and Mrs S are very unhappy with the way in which MAPFRE handled the claim. They 
say:
- it took too long for MAPFRE to reach a claims decision;
- they had to continually chase MAPFRE as they werent provided with updates;
- they werent told at the outset, before making their claim, that they should try to 
recover any sums directly from the booking companies. Nor were they told that they 
should make a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Rights Act 1974 (section 75) 
as theyd partly paid for the flights on a credit card;
- MAPFRE didnt provide any meaningful support, leaving Mrs S to have to chase for 
the refunds which she and Mr S say they were owed.
MAPFRE has said that around the time Mr and Mrs S submitted their claim it had been 
inundated with an inordinate number of claims due to the pandemic and it was reasonable to 
expect some delays in the assessment of claims. However, it accepts that it couldve 
responded to Mrs S a little more promptly, on occasion, and offered Mr and Mrs S £50 as 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs S dont think thats enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience they 
experienced, and the costs of the many calls they say they had to make. 
Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. She felt MAPFREs offer of £50 was fair. As 
Mr and Mrs S disagree, their complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh 
and make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MAPFRE has an obligation to handle complaints fairly and promptly. And it mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim. 
Im satisfied that MAPFREs obligations should be considered in light of the circumstances of 
this particular complaint including the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on MAPFRE at the 
time and the service it was able to provide as a result.
Delays and not replying promptly to communications:
Mr and Mrs S made their claim in May 2020. I accept that the impact of the pandemic meant 
that MAPFRE was inundated with claims around that time - due to holidays being cancelled 
and customers being unable to travel. And although this isnt Mr and Mrs Ss fault, due to the 
unexpected and unprecedented situation caused by the pandemic, I think its reasonable 
that MAPFRE took longer than it would usually expect to assess Mr and Mrs Ss claim.
Mr and Mrs S submitted their claim to MAPFRE on 21 May 2020, which MAPFRE 
acknowledged on 1 June 2020  six working days later. I dont think thats unreasonable in 
the circumstances. That acknowledgment informed Mr and Mrs S that it was an extremely 
busy time due to the pandemic and that it could take up to 30 working days for it to get back 
to them. I appreciate that this might seem like a long time to Mr and Mrs S. But with all that 
was going on around this time, and the unprecedented influx of claims MAPFRE was dealing 
with, I dont think it was unreasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
This was followed by another email from MAPFRE on 8 June 2020 confirming that the claim 
was awaiting assessment and once the status of the claim changed, Mr and Mrs S would be 
contacted. 
Mrs S emailed MAPFRE on 26 June 2020 and 2 July 2020 for an update. She didnt receive 
a reply. And on 13 July 2020, Mrs S raised a complaint that she hadnt been contacted  and 
nor had she received a refund. From Mrs Ss perspective, I can see why she felt frustrated 
by not having received a response, particularly given what she says about her familys 
circumstances at the time. But MAPFRE had previously told her that it could take up to 30 
working days from 1 June 2020 before it would be back in touch  so around mid-July 2020. 
MAPFRE did respond to Mrs S on 21 July 2020 regarding her claim  which was around a 
week later than the timeframe it provided on 1 June 2020. MAPFRE said it required further 
information. I can see it sent an email to Ms S on 24 August 2020, reminding her of the 
information it had asked for - to which Mrs S replied that she would try to retrieve the 
information requested and send it to MAPFRE. But she also said she felt that she had 
provided MAPFRE with everything when originally submitting the claim. 
It then took MAPFRE a further two months to assess the claim and provide Mr and Mrs S 
with its decision to decline the claim. However, during this time, Mrs S had called MAPFRE 
on 11 September 2020 and the call note reflects that MAPFRE asked for further information 
such as confirmation of her credit card providers decision not to reimburse her for the costs 
of the flights. It doesnt look like Mrs S provided the further information requested because on 1 October 2020 MAPFRE wrote to her requesting this information again, along with other 
documents. I can see that she may have provided some of the information requested 
previously, as she says, but from what Ive seen, she hadnt provided everything MAPFRE 
had asked for.
So, all in all, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to hold MAPFRE responsible for 
any delays to the claim. 
MAPFRE has, however, offered Mr and Mrs S £50 and I think that fairly and reasonably 
reflects the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs S experienced by not having received a 
prompt response to Mrs Ss emails dated 26 June and 2 July 2020 - or a formal response to 
her complaint letter dated 13 July 2020.
Attempts to reclaim costs elsewhere:
Although the reason for cancelling the holiday was one which was covered under the policy, 
the costs claimed by Mr and Mrs S arent automatically covered; any claim is subject to the 
remaining terms of the policy. 
The policy covers:
unused travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to 
pay under a contract and which you cannot get back, including any local prepaid 
excursions, tours or activities, if it is necessary and you cannot avoid 
cancellingyour trip
Ill refer to this as the relevant term.
Relying on the relevant term, I dont think MAPFRE  unfairly requested further information 
from Mr and Mrs S to enable it to fully assess the claim to see whether any costs being 
claimed could be recovered elsewhere. Nor do I think it was unreasonable for it to have 
asked for evidence that Mr and Mrs S had explored these other routes  such as seeking to 
directly recover costs back from the airline, the companies theyd booked certain excursions 
and accommodation through and via their credit card company. 
Mr and Mrs S also say that when first notifying MAPFRE of the reason why they might not be 
able to travel in April 2020, they werent told that it was for them to contact individual 
companies for refunds. However, even if they shouldve been told this by MAPFREs 
representatives at the outset, I dont think that wouldve prevented Mrs S from having to 
contact those companies directly. 
Further, the claim form Mr and Mrs S submitted to MAPFRE in May 2020 sets out the cost of 
the flights, accommodation costs in the sum of £52 and a pre-paid excursion which cost 
around £317. Ive also seen an email from Mrs S to the excursion provider from the end of 
April 2020, requesting a refund. This was sent before a claim was made on the policy. And 
Mrs S confirmed to MAPFRE on 24 August 2020 that shed managed to get refunds for 
everything apart from the flights. 
So, MAPFRE not giving her any information about contacting various companies earlier 
didnt have any impact on Mr and Mrs S as this was something they wouldve always had to 
do. And its likely that those communications with various companies happened before the 
claim was made  and Mrs S had successfully claimed back most of her pre-paid costs. Had 
that not happened, its likely that Mr and Mrs S wouldve claimed for further costs under the 
policy, given the number of things that Mrs S says shed pre-booked and paid for.As for the costs of the flights, Mr and Mrs S had already been told of the airlines offer to 
allow them to rebook their flights for the year after. And from what Mrs S says, it appears 
that shed contacted the airline several times to get a cash refund instead, without any 
success initially. So, had she known any earlier that she might need to contact the airline 
again, given the stance the airline initially adopted, I dont think this wouldve resulted in her 
and Mr S receiving a refund earlier than they eventually did. 
Its reflected in MAPFREs call note dated 11 September 2020 that Mrs S told its 
representative that although her credit card provider had refunded some of the costs, they 
hadnt reimbursed the outstanding flight costs. Therefore, it looks like Mr and Mrs S were 
already in contact with the credit card provider. So, even if MAPFRE shouldve told Mrs S in 
April 2020 that she should seek to make a section 75 claim, and Mr and Mrs S had made 
such a claim earlier, Im not persuaded that the outcome wouldve been any different or that 
they wouldve received the monetary refund they eventually received any sooner. 
Mr and Mrs Ss claim:
The policy does include cancellation cover. And one of the reasons stipulated as being 
covered under the policy is being unable to:
commence travel to your intended destination due to the (FCO) Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office advice for your destination/location changing to as a minimum 
all but essential travel after the purchase of your policy or after the booking of any 
individual trip, whichever is the latter. 
So, subject to the remaining terms of the policy, Im satisfied that the policy covered Mr and 
Mrs S for their cancellation costs because the FCO advised against non-essential travel on 
17 March 2020 which was after they bought the policy and had booked their trip. And this 
advice was still in place when they were due to travel abroad towards the end of May 2020.
As stated above, any cancellation claim was subject to the relevant term. And by the time 
MAPFRE took the decision to decline the claim at the end of October 2020, Mrs S had 
confirmed that she and Mr S had been able to reclaim all their costs through alternative 
routes apart from the costs of the flights. 
And because the airline offered Mr and Mrs S a voucher to rebook their flights (and that of 
their sons) to travel in 2021, Im not persuaded this was unfair or unreasonable at the time 
that decision was made. I know that Mr and Mrs S preferred a cash refund. But I dont think 
MAPFRE has unreasonably relied on the relevant term when concluding that Mr and Mrs S 
had been able to get back the cost of the flight  albeit by way of a flight voucher.  
In any event, Mrs S has recently told our Service that she and Mr S received a monetary 
refund of the flight costs in mid-September 2020 and has provided a credit card statement to 
evidence this. That was over a month before MAPFRE decided to decline the claim. So, Mr 
and Mrs S had already recovered the cost of the three flights, even though MAPFRE were 
unaware of this at the time it made its decision. So, even if MAPFRE shouldve accepted the 
claim, which Im not persuaded it shouldve, Mr and Mrs S havent incurred any financial loss 
as a result of the claim being declined. 
Other issues:
Mr and Mrs S have also said that due to the lack of support they received from MAPFRE, 
they should be entitled to a refund of the premium they paid for the policy. For the reasons 
set out above, I think the offer MAPFRE has made to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
they experienced by not replying promptly to certain communications is fair and reasonable. And Im not persuaded it would be fair to reimburse them for the policy premium for this 
reason alone.
However, if Mr and Mrs S think they are entitled to a refund because they were unable to as 
their holiday ended up being cancelled due to the pandemic  and so they were unable to 
utilise the policy for the period they were meant to be abroad - thats a separate complaint 
which MAPFRE hasnt had an opportunity to address. So, theyll need to refer that particular 
complaint to MAPFRE - and it will have eight weeks to respond.
Mr and Mrs S has also said that the policy was mis-sold to them. They will need to raise a 
complaint to the business who sold the policy to them in the first instance about the sale of 
the policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman