DRN-2727980
The complaint
Miss F complains that Aldermore Bank Plc undervalued her home  and didnt take into 
account the evidence she provided that showed it was worth more. She also says that its 
complaint handling was poor.
What happened
A mortgage broker recommended that Miss F remortgage her home with Aldermore. 
Aldermore accepted the application in principle for around £125,000 against a property value 
of £165,000. 
Miss F paid £370 for a mortgage valuation, that was carried out by a third-party surveyor. 
But the report said the property was only worth £130,000 in its present condition. So Miss F 
wasnt able to go ahead with the remortgage with Aldermore.
Miss F said she sent Aldermore evidence that comparable properties were worth more than 
the valuation. But Aldermore wouldnt change its decision. As a result, she said that she had 
to continue paying her existing mortgage at a higher rate. But she was eventually able to 
remortgage to another lender who accepted her home was worth £165,000.
Miss F also says that Aldermores complaint handling was poor. She said it took ten weeks 
after logging the complaint for Aldermore to issue a final response letter and that the letter 
didnt address her complaint. She also said she wasnt given a copy of the valuation report 
and had to make a subject access request to receive it. Miss F wants Aldermore to refund 
the fee she paid for the valuation report and the additional interest she had to pay to her 
previous mortgage lender.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss F didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three parties in this complaint  Miss F, Aldermore and the surveyor. I can only 
look at whether Aldermore has acted fairly and reasonably. It wasnt responsible for the 
surveyors actions in completing the valuation report. So I cant consider whether the 
surveyors valuation was correct. 
I am satisfied that Aldermore set out in a clear, fair and not misleading way that the valuation 
fee was £370 and that it wasnt refundable once the valuation was carried out.
Aldermore instructed a suitably qualified surveyor to carry out the valuation. And there were 
no factual errors in the report. So I consider it was reasonable for it to rely on the surveyors 
opinion about the value of the property.
I accept that Miss F may have found similar properties that were worth more. Other lenders 
dont necessarily require a full mortgage valuation report. Or another surveyor might have a 
different opinion on the value of the property. But I think it was reasonable for Aldermore to 
rely on the valuation by an independent and suitably qualified surveyor. It has explained that 
it placed more weight on their opinion and justification for the valuation. That is in line with 
good practice.
Overall, I consider that Aldermore has acted fairly and reasonably in respect of the valuation. 
It was reasonable for it to rely on what the surveyor said.
There wasnt any requirement for Aldermore to send Miss F a copy of the valuation report as 
it was solely for mortgage purposes. 
I can look at how Aldermore handled Miss Fs complaint as her complaint isnt solely about 
complaint handling. I can see that the complaint was originally made on 15 September 2020 
and the final response letter was issued on 11 November 2020. That is just over eight 
weeks. Businesses have eight weeks to issue a final response letter. This was one day over. 
I dont think this very small delay has caused Miss F any distress or inconvenience that 
would warrant compensation.
I also dont agree that the final response letter is a template. It addresses the complaint 
that Miss F made. And Aldermore clarified its position in a follow up email. Overall, I consider 
its complaint handling was reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman