DRN-2853742
The complaint
Mr C complains that Premium Choice Ltd cancelled his motor insurance policy and didnt 
notify him of this. Mr C is represented in this matter by his mother. 
What happened
Mr C took out a policy through Premium Choice and it validated his details. It found there 
had been an undisclosed claim from 2016 and it wrote to Mr C asking for an additional 
premium. Mr C said he called Premium Choice and agreed for this sum to be taken from his 
account. Premium Choice sent Mr C two more letters asking for the same information, but he 
dismissed these as he thought the matter had been dealt with. 
Mr C was later stopped by the police for driving whilst uninsured. Premium Choice said it 
had no record of his call and it hadnt received the additional premium. Premium Choice said 
it had sent Mr C warnings of the cancellation by text and then a notification of cancellation 
letter by post. A court discharged Mr C and he wanted Premium Choice to pay his costs. He 
found that his previous insurer had recorded a claim against him that was a case of mistaken 
identity. Premium Choice said it had acted correctly.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Premium Choices checks had flagged the fault incident and he thought this had fairly led to 
the premium increase. He thought there wasnt record of the call from Mr C to Premium 
Choice. But he thought Mr C could have responded to the two text messages it sent chasing 
the payment or noticed that the amount hadnt been taken from his account. He thought 
Premium Choice had sent Mr C sufficient warnings and notification of the cancellation. 
Mrs C replied that a court had found for Mr C. She said Mr C hadnt received any texts or the 
notification of cancellation letter from Premium Choice. She thought Premium Choice had 
missed the amendment made on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database by 
the previous insurer that the claim didnt relate to Mr C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this has been a very frustrating, distressing and upsetting episode for 
Mr C and his family. I was sorry to hear of their health concerns. Mrs C and Premium Choice 
have both provided detailed submissions for my consideration. I can see that Mrs C has also 
sought information from other businesses that were involved in this matter. But here I can 
only consider whether Premium Choice has acted fairly and reasonably and in keeping with 
its Terms of Business. 
The problem arose because of a fault claim recorded on CUE by a previous insurer. It said it 
had amended this entry the following day. But from the CUE entry Ive seen, the claim was 
still recorded as open, a fault, and NCD disallowed, when Premium Choice validated Mr Cs 
policy. 
Mrs C said the subsequent insurer had checked Mr Cs NCD and validated it. But I can see 
that this insurer said it checked the NCD with the previous insurer that had recorded the 
claim. So the previous insurer may have updated its internal records about the claim being a 
mistake, but I cant see that it updated the CUE record that Premium Choice accessed. I 
think this is a matter for Mr C to take up with the previous insurer. 
Premium Choice said it had acted correctly on the information shown on CUE. I can see 
from its records that the fault claim still showed when it priced the policy and hadnt been 
amended by the previous insurer. So I cant say that Premium Choice made an error in 
acting on what it found.
Its action was to write to Mr C and ask him to contact it to arrange payment of an additional 
premium. Mr C said he called Premium Choice and agreed for it to take an additional 
premium from his account. Premium Choice has searched its records but cant locate any 
record of this call. It also hasnt found that its agents accessed Mr Cs account at this time. 
Mr C hasnt been able to provide any record of such a call from his telephone provider. So I 
havent seen any evidence that Mr C did call Premium Choice and, as I cant request the call 
recording, I cant comment on what may have been discussed. 
Mrs C thought Premium Choice had written to Mr C saying that hed confirmed the incident, 
which he thought was a speeding offence. But I dont think this is right as the letter says that 
the incident had been confirmed, meaning from Premium Choices checks of CUE. The letter 
is headed Non Disclosed Claims History, which should have alerted Mr C that this didnt 
refer to speeding offences. 
Premium Choice then sought the payment from Mr C and, when this wasnt provided, it 
cancelled his policy. This service believes that insurers should take reasonable steps to 
ensure that policy holders are told that their policy has been cancelled as this will have 
serious consequences for them and expose them to possible court action.
Premium Choice said it had sent Mr C letters and texts warning him of the cancellation. I can 
see they were sent to the correct phone number and postal address. Mr C said he received 
these letters, but not the cancellation notice. But I can see that the notice of cancellation 
letter was sent to the correct postal and email addresses. So I cant say it wasnt sent. 
I also think Premium Choice sent Mr C sufficient prompts by text for him to make contact. I 
think these should have alerted Mr C that something was amiss with his policy. And the £474 
refund of premium was made six weeks before Mr C was stopped by the police. I think that 
this, and that the additional premium hadnt been taken from his account, should have 
reasonably alerted him that something was wrong. Mrs C said Mr C lived within his means 
and didnt check his account. But I think it was Mr Cs responsibility to ensure that he was 
insured. 
Mrs C thought that the courts decision showed that Mr C wasnt at fault. But whilst I can 
consider the courts decision, its not something that I can comment on as the court relies on 
a different standard of proof. Also, the court has considered Mr Cs alleged offence but Ive 
to consider whether Premium Choice has done anything wrong.
Mrs C has also raised concerns about Premium Choices reputation online. But I cant 
consider this. I need to consider how it has dealt with the particular concerns raised in Mr Cs 
complaint. Mrs C was also concerned about Premium Choices records. I think its clarified 
when it wrote and emailed Mr C. But Ive seen no evidence to show that it hasnt contacted 
Mr C as it said it did. 
So, in summary, I think Premium Choice fairly and reasonably relied on the information it 
found on the CUE database of an undisclosed fault claim to ask Mr C for an additional 
premium. I havent seen any evidence that Mr C made this payment, despite multiple 
contacts from Premium Choice by different means. So I think Premium Choice cancelled the 
policy in keeping with its Terms of Business giving reasonable notification of this. And so I 
cant say that Premium Choice was responsible for Mr C driving whilst uninsured or his 
subsequent costs.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman