DRN-3680177
The complaint
Mrs M complains that National Savings and Investments opened a Direct Saver Account, in 
error, after she tried to purchase Premium Bonds, and then failed to backdate her application 
after telling her it would do that.
What happened
Mrs M says that on 26 March 2021 she applied to purchase Premium Bonds from NSI. She 
followed the online process and read the product information presented. She says that 
when she got to the end of the process the system told her shed opened a Direct Saver 
Account. Shed paid £20,000 into the account using her debit card.
Mrs M says she did not apply for a Direct Saver account, wasnt presented with any product 
information for a Direct Saver account and didnt want this type of account. She wanted to 
purchase Premium Bonds and wanted to be entered in the May draw.
Mrs M tried to contact NSI by email but was unable to send the email. She telephoned NSI 
on 27 March 2021. She says NSI told her this issue had happened before, but it promised 
the problem would be fixed. Over several subsequent conversations Mrs M says NSI 
assured her that it would close the Direct Saver and purchase the Premium Bonds for her. 
She says it also told her it would retrospectively check the May draw to see if shed won 
anything.
Mrs M says that the problem wasnt fixed until 14 April 2021. NSI closed the Direct Saver 
account and put the £20,000 into a Premium Bond account for Mrs M. But it said it was too 
late for the May draw. She complained to NSI.
NSI investigated her complaint. It said it had not experienced any issues with its online 
systems on the date that Mrs M made her online application. It had now closed the Direct 
Saver and switched the £20,000 to Premium Bonds. Mrs M had paid by debit card. That 
meant it took seven days for the funds to clear before they could be switched to the 
Premium Bond account. NSI said it hadnt made any errors. It said the Premium Bond 
account had been opened too late for the May draw.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied. She referred her complaint to our service. At this stage NSI looked 
at everything again. It acknowledged that Mrs M had made several phone calls to it and 
hadnt always been given clear information about its clearance times. So, it offered to pay 
her £50 by way of compensation for the inconvenience shed experienced. Mrs M didnt 
accept this offer.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ms complaint. She said that because it took seven days to 
clear the debit card payment, the earliest date NSI couldve switched the funds to Premium 
Bonds was 8 April. NSI had switched the funds on 14 April. Although thered been a short 
delay, our investigator thought the offer of £50 from NSI was fair and reasonable. It was too 
late for the May draw. So, our investigator didnt think Mrs M had experienced any financial 
loss.
Mrs M didnt agree with what our investigator said. She was adamant she hadnt made an 
error. She said she was told the Premium Bonds would be backdated.
Our investigator considered what Mrs M had said. She said she couldnt be certain where 
the fault lay but what she had considered was the action NSI had taken to try to put things 
right. She thought the offer of £50 was fair and reasonable. She didnt think NSI should 
have to do anything more.
Because Mrs M disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What happened on 26 March 2021
Mrs M says she didnt apply for a Direct Saver Account. She thinks there was 
something wrong with NSIs systems on 26 March which meant that the wrong type 
of account was opened.
Ive listened to the telephone call Mrs M had with NSI on 27 March. During that call 
NSIs adviser stated that this problem had happened before and there was a known 
software problem. The adviser said that he had reported this as a technical issue 
previously.
I asked NSI to comment on this. It says it has checked its incident logs and there 
have been no previous incidents reported where someone has tried to open a 
Premium Bond account online but instead a Direct Saver Account has been 
opened. It says its also checked its logs relating to the date when Mrs M tried to 
open the account and theres no record of any issues with its systems. So, it says 
that its adviser was mistaken and gave Mrs M incorrect information.
I asked NSI for an electronic log of Mrs Ms application. It says its systems dont 
create such a log.
Mrs M says that on the date in question she went through the process to open 
Premium Bonds. She saw all the product information for Premium Bonds and then 
noticed she was being asked to pay by debit card. She seems to have paused her 
application at that stage. After thinking further about making the payment using her 
debit card, she started the process again. She doesnt recall seeing any product 
information about a Direct Saver during the process. She paid by debit card and it 
was only then that the system told her shed opened a Direct Saver.
Having considered everything that both NSI and Mrs M have said, I agree with our 
investigator that its not possible to be certain whether there was a system error or 
whether Mrs M inadvertently applied for a Direct Saver when she restarted the process. But, I dont have any reason to doubt that Mrs M didnt want a Direct Saver 
and she made that very clear to NSI as soon as she could.
The telephone calls with NSI
Mrs M contacted NSI several times in the days following 26 March 2021. Ive 
listened to the telephone calls. I can see NSI accepted that Mrs M wanted to open a 
Premium Bond account. She was told the funds could be switched from the Direct 
Saver to the Premium Bond account. She was given information about the fact that 
because shed paid by debit card it would take seven banking days for the payment 
to clear and it was only after that period of time that the funds could be switched.
Mrs M was anxious that despite this delay, she would still be entered in the May 
draw. For her account to be eligible for the May draw, the funds would have to 
switch to Premium Bonds before the end of March. Mrs M explained to NSI that she 
wasnt happy that the funds would be switched in time and she said one of the 
reasons why shed made the investment was because she wanted to be entered in 
the monthly draws, starting in May.
On 27 March NSIs adviser assured Mrs M she would be entered in the May draw. 
He said he would refer the matter to the technical team and they would resolve it. 
She would still be eligible for the May draw and NSI would honour that. During a 
subsequent call on 29 March 2021, a different NSI adviser also confirmed to Mrs M 
that she had no need to worry. NSI had a process whereby it could retrospectively 
enter her Premium Bond numbers for the May draw. The adviser told Mrs M she 
would send an email to the relevant team so that her Premium Bonds could be 
retrospectively entered in the May draw. Ive also listened to another call where a 
different NSI adviser provided similar assurances to Mrs M.
Having listened to all of the calls, Im satisfied, on balance, that NSI did give Mrs M 
assurances that despite any delay switching the funds to Premium Bonds, NSI 
would retrospectively enter the Premium Bonds for the May draw.
What Ive provisionally decided needs to be done to put things right
NSI assured Mrs M that it would switch her funds to Premium Bonds. I think it was 
fair and reasonable that it should do that.
It switched the funds on 14 April. It wasnt immediately able to make the transfer 
because it takes seven banking days for a debit card payment to clear. NSIs terms 
and conditions make that clear. So, I think the earliest it could switch the funds out 
of the Direct Saver account was 8 April 2021. By that stage it was already too late to 
be automatically entered for the May draw. Ive noted NSI paid interest on the funds 
whilst they were in the Direct Saver Account.
Although I dont think Mrs M suffered any financial loss as a result of the delay in 
switching the funds, that doesnt mean NSI shouldnt have done what it promised to 
do, on at least three occasions, when Mrs M contacted it. It said it would 
retrospectively enter Mrs Ms Premium Bond numbers into the May draw. Mrs M 
acknowledged that she realised this wouldnt mean she would be guaranteed to win 
a prize.So, I asked NSI to make that retrospective check now. Its confirmed it has done 
that. But, unfortunately the retrospective check indicates that none of Mrs Ms 
Premium Bond numbers was selected in the May draw. Whilst I know Mrs M will be 
disappointed by that, it is an outcome that she accepted was a possibility.
Ive then thought about the distress and inconvenience Mrs M has experienced 
because of everything thats happened here. NSI has offered to pay her £50 by way 
of compensation. But, having considered everything, I currently dont think that is 
enough. Ill explain why.
Mrs M had to make numerous telephone calls to NSI in the period after 26 March. 
She was given information about systems problems which NSI now says was 
incorrect. She was also, on at least three occasions, given assurances and 
promises that her Premium Bonds would be retrospectively entered in the May 
draw. NSI then reneged on this. So, having considered everything, Ive provisionally 
decided that NSI should pay her £150 by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced as a result of what happened.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about National Savings and Investments. I intend to require it to pay 
Mrs M £150 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced as a result of what happened.
NSI responded to my provisional decision. It said it agreed to pay the compensation set out 
in my provisional decision.
Mrs M also responded to my provisional decision. She said she didnt have any further 
information to provide. 
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision. I havent received any new or 
further information. So, theres nothing that persuades me to change my view about how this 
complaint should be resolved.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about National Savings and 
Investments. I now require it to:
Pay Mrs M £150 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced as a result of what happened.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman