DRN-3778991
The complaint
Mrs P, together with the trustees of the P Trust, complain that Sound Financial Management 
Ltd (SFM) gave unsuitable advice to surrender Mrs Ps investment bonds which caused her 
tax issues.
For ease, Ive referred to Mrs P or her representative throughout.
What happened
Mrs P sought advice from SFM to mitigate her potential inheritance tax liability (IHT) in 2016. 
SFM advised her to surrender two investment bonds and invest the proceeds into an 
investment bond and a Flexible Investment Plan  both of these were to be placed into 
Discounted Gift Trusts (DGT).
In 2020, Mrs Ps representative complained after Mrs P received a bill from HMRC due to 
the surrender of the bonds. Mrs P said that she was advised to surrender both bonds at the 
same time and SFM hadnt told her about the additional tax shed have to pay because the 
bonds realised a chargeable gain. Because of this, she faced a penalty fine as well as a bill 
for over £20,000 of tax she hadnt paid due to the gain.
Mrs P says that SFM ought to have advised her to surrender the bonds gradually to ensure 
she was under the higher rate threshold for income tax. And that it had been negligent with 
its advice which has caused her a direct loss.
I sent my provisional decision upholding this complaint on 5 October 2022. I said that whilst 
the advice to invest into a DGT was suitable, SFM gave incorrect information to Mrs P about 
her tax liability which had led to a penalty. The relevant extract from my provisional decision 
(which forms part of this decision) is below.
Tax charges
The crux of this complaint is about the penalty and tax charge Mrs P incurred when she 
encashed two investment bonds as a result of this advice. The advice was to invest the 
proceeds into plans utilising DGTs to mitigate Mrs Ps potential IHT liability. It isnt disputed 
that there was a potential IHT liability at the time she received advice.
When SFM gave the advice, the adviser calculated that, due to top slicing relief, Mrs P 
wouldnt have to pay any additional tax on the gain she received from the two investment 
bonds. He went as far as saying that the top sliced gain would be added to her income and 
shed remain under the higher rate threshold for the year, therefore no further tax is payable.
But, SFMs calculation at the time didnt add the whole gain to Mrs Ps income for the year, 
didnt run through the complex actual calculation for top slice relief and didnt use the correct 
level of income for her for that year. So, mistakes were made.
SFM has since sent in another calculation from a third party to show the additional tax 
liability wouldve been around £5,000. This is different from the information Mrs Ps 
accountant has sent in which shows it to be around £20,000. Either way, Mrs P wouldve 
incurred an income tax charge for surrendering the bonds and she was told the opposite.
Im not a forensic accountant, and I cant say which of the calculations Ive received is 
accurate, but I dont think I need to. Im satisfied that Mrs P ought to have been told that 
surrendering her bonds wouldve created a tax charge so I need to determine what shed 
have done if shed been told this.
The advice
Mrs Ps representative says that SFM shouldve advised Mrs P to surrender her bonds over 
a number of years, ensuring her yearly income didnt go above the basic rate allowance.
Ive thought about this carefully and my role here isnt to think about what the most suitable 
advice wouldve been with the benefit of hindsight but rather to determine if the advice SFM 
gave Mrs P was suitable for her circumstances. 
Mrs Ps objectives when she sought advice from SFM was to find ways to mitigate her 
potential IHT liability. Its clear from the documents from the point of sale that different trust 
options were discussed but that it was settled that a DGT would be the best option as it 
ensured the full amount invested would fall outside of her estate after seven years and there 
was a potential for an immediate discount. As Mrs Ps objective was to place money into 
trust, I dont think its likely that surrendering her bond over time, as her representative 
suggested, would have met this. The advice allowed Mrs P to place funds outside of her 
estate with the potential to take an income and for there to be an amount to fall immediately 
outside of her estate (the discount) subject to actuarial calculations. Having looked at Mrs 
Ps circumstances and objectives, I cant see this advice was unsuitable. DGTs arent 
designed to take additional contributions, so if Mrs P only gradually surrendered her bonds, 
the amount would take longer to fall outside of her estate.
The issue is that SFM didnt tell Mrs P that the gain she received when she surrendered her 
bond would give rise to an income tax liability. But, I think the advice was still suitable, and 
given Mrs Ps objectives I dont think its likely shed have done something differently had 
she been given correct information about the income tax liability shed face. To achieve the 
IHT mitigation she needed, shed likely have had to pay something to place the sums she 
had in the bonds into a trust to fall outside of her estate.
Has SFM caused a loss?
SFM has maintained that it isnt responsible for any of Mrs Ps tax liability or losses. It has 
said that the responsibility was entirely hers. I disagree. I can see Mrs P was asked to check 
figures with her accountant but given SFM was giving her advice to mitigate a potential tax 
liability, albeit IHT, Id expect her to trust what it was telling her. And it told her very certainly 
that no additional income tax liability would be incurred.
Ive concluded that shed likely have gone ahead with the advice had she been told the 
correct information, so shed still be liable for the amount of tax that is due to HMRC for the 
surrender of her bonds. But shed likely have paid that as part of her tax return for that year, 
rather than incur a penalty and interest. SFM made errors, it didnt calculate her income 
correctly, or her potential liability on the gain from surrendering her bonds. And if it expected 
Mrs P to get her accountant to carry out those calculations, it shouldnt have attempted to do 
it and give her incorrect information.
I think its likely Mrs P only incurred a late penalty and interest on her tax due because of 
SFMs mistake, and so it follows that I think SFM ought to compensate her for this.Trouble and upset
Aside from the actual financial loss Mrs P has suffered as a result of SFMs mistakes she 
has suffered considerable trouble and upset. She was sent a warning from HMRC and told 
she owed money for which the potential penalty is high. I think this wouldve come as a 
significant shock, which couldve been avoided if SFM had either carried out correct 
calculations or told Mrs P that it didnt know about any of the potential tax charges on 
surrender. As such, I think it needs to pay Mrs P £350 to compensate for the trouble and 
upset she experienced as a result of its errors.
Putting things right
Subject to any additional evidence I receive I intend to direct Sound Financial Management 
Ltd to do the following:
-Upon receipt of evidence, pay Mrs P any penalty charge and interest she has had to 
pay to HMRC as a result of not declaring the chargeable gain as part of her tax return 
in 2016/17.
-To this amount add 8% simple interest* per annum from the date Mrs P paid HMRC 
to the date of settlement.
-Pay Mrs P £350 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Responses to the provisional decision
SFM responded to say it had no further comments to make. Mrs Ps representative 
disagreed with the provisional decision. In summary it said:
- Mrs Ps objective was to reduce her IHT liability. That objective did not include 
increasing her liability to Capital Gains Tax (CGT).
- The advice wasnt fit for Mrs Ps circumstances as the advice in respect to top slicing 
relief was wrong.
- Mrs P wouldnt have taken the advice had she been made aware of her liability to 
CGT.
- If the Ombudsman finds that SFMs advice was wrong then it follows that Mrs Ps 
loss should be properly compensated. The Ombudsman shouldnt second guess 
what Mrs P might have done.
- Mrs P feels the Ombudsman should make an award of costs, in particular in respect 
of accountant fees. 
- Mrs P wants the Ombudsman to award:
o£23,068.51 plus interest at 8% per annum from 10 April 2019
o£350 compensation
o£3,204 for accountants fees
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any additional evidence that persuades me to reach a different 
outcome to my provisional decision. For completeness Ill respond to Mrs Ps submissions in 
summary.I concluded that the advice Mrs P received was suitable for her objectives of mitigating IHT, 
and just because this generated a chargeable gain, liable to tax, didnt make the advice 
unsuitable. Ive not seen anything else to suggest that the whole advice was unsuitable. But I 
did conclude that SFM ought to have told Mrs P about the potential tax liability.
I appreciate Mrs Ps representative doesnt think I should make a finding as to what Mrs P 
might have done had SFM not given incorrect information, but this is part of my role. I need 
to conclude what position Mrs P is likely to be in had the error not occurred. I explained in 
my provisional decision why I thought shed still have gone ahead with the advice and my 
decision remains the same - the advice met her objectives which was to reduce her IHT 
liability. Ive not seen anything to suggest she wouldnt have gone ahead with the advice, 
and Mrs Ps representatives idea that shed have surrendered the bond gradually wouldnt 
have matched with her objectives at the time.
Mrs P has asked for her accountants fees to be paid. I can see she instructed her 
accountant to calculate losses and tax charges, this is something it appears shed have 
always paid for and I dont consider it fair to ask SFM to pay for these costs. Mrs P 
mentioned in her complaint that she had an accountant and it appears this was something 
shed likely pay out for given her sources of income and that she said shed consult her 
accountant at the time of advice. I do appreciate that Mrs P asked her accountant to provide 
evidence as part of this complaint. This was in response to this service asking her to explain 
why her calculations were the correct ones to use (in relation to top slicing relief) rather than 
SFMs. It was Mrs Ps choice to get this explanation from her accountant. So, I dont think it 
would be reasonable to ask SFM to reimburse these costs. 
Overall, I think SFM gave incorrect information to Mrs P about her tax liability following the 
surrender of her bonds. I dont think the correct information wouldve meant Mrs P acted 
differently, but I do think that shes incurred trouble and upset because of it, as well as a 
potential penalty for not declaring it to HMRC on time.
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mrs P, who has asked for the full tax liability back in 
addition to an award for costs. However if Mrs P wishes to pursue this matter further she can 
reject this decision and look at legal proceedings.
Putting things right
Sound Financial Management Ltd must do the following:
- Upon receipt of evidence, pay Mrs P any penalty charge and interest she has had to 
pay to HMRC as a result of not declaring the chargeable gain as part of her tax return 
in 2016/17.
- To this amount add 8% simple interest* per annum from the date Mrs P paid HMRC 
to the date of settlement.
- Pay Mrs P £350 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
*If Sound Financial Management Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs P how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs P a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint and direct Sound Financial 
Management Ltd to carry out the instructions Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P, Mrs M and 
Mrs S as trustees of the P Trust to accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman