DRN-3237824
The complaint
Mr B complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc has dealt with his account following a 
dormant account letter being sent to him.
What happened
Mr B says he received a letter from HSBC about his account telling him it had been dormant 
for five years. He says he called HSBC and was told to use the account but a payment into 
the account was rejected by HSBC which resulted in charges to cash the cheque. He says 
he provided identity documents to HSBC which were not accepted, and it eventually sent 
him all of his money which he didnt ask for as well as having his account closed. Mr B would 
like interest on the money and his charges refunded. He says he was harassed by HSBC for 
over a year.
HSBC says it correctly wrote to Mr B about his account in 2019. It says it needed certified 
identity documents which Mr B didnt provide and says it doesnt have a copy of a request for 
the money but accepts closing his account and sending the money via a cheque. HSBC 
says it could have dealt with parts of this complaint more appropriately and has offered £250 
compensation.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation offer 
appropriate. The investigator thought part of the delay here was caused by the documents 
not being certified and that Mr B was told HSBC would be sending a cheque which he could 
have requested be sent via a different method. The investigator accepted HSBC could have 
told Mr B the account was being closed.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and says nobody requires certified copies in these 
circumstances and maintains he would like interest paid on the amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I can see from HSBCs records that it wrote to Mr B about his account in 2019 telling him 
that it hadnt been used for five years. I make clear that I find that its Mr Bs responsibility to 
manage his account and that HSBC followed its regulatory duty by telling Mr B the account 
would become frozen until contact made. I accept there is some confusion about what took 
place during a telephone call between the parties about the account and I appreciate why Mr 
B thought that he could activate the account by using it. I can see that money paid into the 
account was returned to the business I will call J but can see in any event Mr B received 
his money from J at a later stage. I accept that J sent Mr B the money by cheque which may 
have resulted in a charge, but I cant see Mr B has told us how much that charge was.
Im satisfied that the main delay in Mr B being able to access his money was caused by the 
request for certified identity documents. I appreciate that Mr B questions why they were 
needed but Im satisfied that its up to HSBC to decide what type of documents it accepts in 
these circumstances and Im sure Mr B appreciates the risk of fraud. Im also satisfied that 
HSBC sent Mr B his money within a reasonable time period.
I appreciate that Mr B says he wanted the money transferred rather than in a cheque. HSBC 
says it doesnt have a record of that request.
I accept that there were communication issues on both sides here and that the initial 
problem was caused by the account not being used. I also accept there would have been 
inevitable delays caused by Mr B living abroad and not being able to, for example, attend a 
local branch. I appreciate Mr B has paid charges for cashing cheques.
The main part of Mr Bs complaint is that he would like interest on the money and that HSBC 
closed the account. I dont think it made any real difference to Mr B by the account being 
closed in any event and find that he did receive his money. Im also satisfied that as I have 
made clear the main delay here was the identification issue and so I cant fairly hold HSBC 
responsible for that delay. It follows that I cant fairly order it pay interest on the money and 
find it was Mr Bs choice to leave the money in the HSBC account for the length of time he 
did, an account that didnt pay interest.
Overall, I accept there were communication issues that HSBC has fairly accepted. I dont 
think Mr B suffered any real financial loss except the cost of cashing the cheques which I 
think is fairly covered in HSBCs compensation offer. I am satisfied the compensation offer is 
fair and reasonable and reflects what took place and what I think was a relatively limited 
impact on Mr B. It is of course up to Mr B to decide if he wishes to accept that offer if the 
compensation hasnt been paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable compensation 
offer of £250. Mr Bs acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman