DRN-2294955
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy because One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) has avoided his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Z said since May 2014, he has held a car insurance policy with One Insurance. It was a 
monthly rolling contract and he renewed it every month. In January 2018, he contacted them 
as he bought a new car and they amended the policy accordingly.
In October 2019, Mr Zs car was stolen. It was reported to One Insurance and when 
validating the claim, they found out he wasnt the registered keeper or legal owner of the car. 
As a result, One Insurance decided to avoid the policy for the month of October 2019 - 
treating it as if it never existed, meaning they wouldnt cover the claim for his stolen car. 
Mr Z complained but One Insurance maintained their position. Unhappy with their response, 
the complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator recommended the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. They believed One Insurance were entitled to avoid the policy based on 
the incorrect information provided. Mr Z disagreed and raised a number of points. In 
summary, he said he mustve misunderstood and made a mistake when answering One 
Insurances question about the registered keeper of the car. He didnt believe it was fair the 
policy was avoided because he had been a loyal customer for many years, they didnt ask 
him for proof of ownership from the outset and now he must continue to make finance 
repayments on a car that he no longer has. He said the situation has caused him stress and 
negatively impacted his financial circumstances.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to me to decide.
In September 2020, I issued a provisional decision and said:
Although a number of matters have been raised, this decision has centred on what I think 
are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision. Having done so, I intend to partially uphold Mr Zs 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
One Insurance said Mr Z didnt give them correct information about the registered keeper or 
legal owner of his car when amending the policy details in January 2018. Where such 
allegations are made, this is referred to as a misrepresentation and the relevant law which 
applies is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out an insurance policy. It sets out several considerations for deciding whether the 
consumer failed to do this and, if it did, the options available to the insurer. Ive addressed 
each of these considerations in turn below.
Did Mr Z take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation?
When considering this question, its important to decide if One Insurance asked a clear 
question when the policy was amended. Ive listened to the call where Mr Z called to change 
the car to be insured. The advisor asked Will you be the registered keeper and legal owner 
of the vehicle to which Mr Z answered yes.
I think this is a clear question and it was for Mr Z to take reasonable care not to provide 
inaccurate information when answering. This information was then relied on for each 
renewal thereafter. 
Mr Z said when he made the call, he had problems with his phone and I can hear he 
mentioned this to the advisor at the start. However during the call, I can hear Mr Z has 
answered a number of questions about the car and the policy so Im satisfied he heard the 
question about the registered keeper. If Mr Z was unsure about what was being asked or felt 
rushed to provide an answer, I believe it wouldve been fair for him to ask the advisor for 
clarity, to slow down when speaking or to repeat the question. However I cant hear that he  
asked this during the call. 
One Insurance has provided a copy of the cars V5 document which is commonly known as 
the log book. This shows another person, who is not Mr Z, as the registered keeper of the 
car. Mr Z has told us due to his credit history, he was unable to get a hire purchase 
agreement in his name to buy the car so his sister-in-law took out the finance agreement on 
his behalf. However he said he was the main driver and he alone was responsible for the 
finance repayments, insurance and general maintenance of the car. While I accept this was 
the case and Mr Z considered himself the registered keeper, at the time of amending the 
policy he had bought the car that day therefore it was reasonable for him to know that his 
sister-in-law was the registered keeper and the legal owner was the car finance provider. 
The V5 is a legal document issued by the Driver and Vehicle Leasing Agency (DVLA) so I 
must rely on this when reaching my decision and it confirms the registered keeper of the car 
is another person, who isnt Mr Z. 
At the end of the call the advisor said policy documents would be sent immediately to Mr Z 
via email. Ive seen a copy of the documentation and the covering letter tells Mr Z to make 
One Insurance aware if any of the details were incorrect. These documents included the 
policy certificate, schedule and a statement of fact which outlined the information he gave 
about the car including the registered keeper of the car. Mr Z said he never received these 
documents or any other documents from One Insurance therefore he wasnt able to check 
the information. However if they werent received, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr 
Z to chase this but I cant see this happened. Having considered One Insurances system 
notes, Im satisfied policy documents were sent to him when the policy was amended and 
every month thereafter given the rolling monthly nature of the policy. Therefore, Mr Z had 
more than one opportunity to tell One Insurance the correct information and I believe it 
wouldve been reasonable for him to do so. 
Based on the above, I believe Mr Z was asked a clear question by the advisor about the 
registered keeper of the car but Im not satisfied he took reasonable care not to misrepresent 
the facts when amending the policy.
Did Mr Z make a qualifying misrepresentation?
One Insurance has provided details of its underwriting guidelines. Had Mr Z told them the 
correct information - that his sister-in-law was the registered keeper of the car - I can see 
they wouldnt have provided cover. Im satisfied the same wouldve applied to any other 
consumer, not just to Mr Z. 
On this basis, I believe Mr Z made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. Was the misrepresentation deliberate, reckless or careless?
Where a qualifying misrepresentation has been made, CIDRA says the action an insurer can 
take will depend on whether the misrepresentation was deliberate, reckless or careless. In 
this case, One Insurance hasnt said it was deliberate or reckless therefore CIDRA says it 
should be treated as being careless and I think this is reasonable in the circumstances for 
the reasons Ive explained above.  
With a careless misrepresentation, if the insurer can show it wouldnt have provided cover, it 
can avoid the policy but they should refund the premiums unless a successful claim has 
been made. One Insurance said they are avoiding the policy for October 2019, which is 
when Mr Zs car was stolen. They also said as Mr Z hadnt paid that months premium, no 
refund was due. However I disagree. I believe the policy should be avoided from when the 
misrepresentation was made in January 2018 because its clear cover wouldnt have been 
provided had the correct information been given, therefore there was no risk to One 
Insurance. 
Other
Mr Z said One Insurance shouldve asked him for proof of the cars ownership from the 
beginning and had they done so, they wouldve realised he wasnt the registered keeper nor 
legal owner. Generally speaking, it isnt common for insurers to ask for this type of evidence 
when a policy is set up or amended, this is because it can cause delays. Insurers expect 
consumers to take reasonable care when providing information so I cant say One Insurance 
did anything wrong by not asking for this information before amending the policy.  
Im sorry to hear Mr Z feels One Insurance didnt handle his complaint professionally. He 
said when he complained he was told not to do so because the outcome wouldnt change. 
But having considered One Insurances call notes, it says Mr Z was advised to complain if he 
remained unhappy about the avoidance. I think its fair for One Insurance to set out their 
reasons for avoiding the claim and to make it clear if they dont believe the decision will 
change even if a formal complaint is raised.  
Summary
Having taken everything into account, Im satisfied a qualified misrepresentation has been 
made and One Insurance are entitled to avoid Mr Zs policy from January 2018 under 
CIDRA. This means, it will be treated as if it never existed and One Insurance doesnt have 
to deal with the claim for Mr Zs stolen car. However, they must return to Mr Z all the 
premiums he paid plus pay 8% simple interest per year from when the policy was amended 
in January 2018 to the date of settlement.  
I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr Z and I appreciate the 
significant financial consequences he now faces because the claim for his stolen car wont 
be covered. Lastly, Mr Z will need to let future insurers know about this avoidance and 
cancellation however I cant comment on whether they will treat this as a single instance of 
policy cancellation or several separate instances. This will be a matter for the prospective 
insurer to decide. 
Response to my provisional decisionOne Insurance said as Mr Z had a month to month policy, they would only avoid the most 
recent renewal month and not to the point when the policy was amended or refund the 
premiums paid.
In summary, Mr Z maintained he didnt purposefully provide incorrect information for his own 
benefit and he believes the issue was a result of his phone not working well when he called 
to amend the policy details. He questioned why the V5 document was not requested by One 
Insurance to verify the details given. Mr Z also said he didnt receive monthly policy 
documents, only when it was amended in January 2018 and at annual reviews. He said he 
was happy for the premiums to be refunded but he believed he shouldnt lose his no claims 
discount as these were protected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr Z for his further comments but I believe Ive already considered them in my 
provisional decision and given my thoughts. As nothing new has been raised, my reasons 
remain unchanged so I wont repeat them again here. However I must make it clear that as 
the policy will be avoided from January 2018, this means it will be treated as if it was never 
existed therefore no claims discount will be applicable during this time. 
As it was evident cover wouldve never been provided from when the policy was amended, 
there was no risk to One Insurance. So I remain of the opinion that they must return all the 
premiums paid plus pay 8% simple interest per year from when the date of amendment to 
the date of settlement. Therefore, Ive reached the same outcome as my provisional 
decisional and for the same reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Zs complaint and One 
Insurance Limited should refund all the policy premiums to Mr Z, plus pay 8% simple 
interest* per year from when the policy was amended in January 2018 to the date of 
settlement.
*If One Insurance Limited considers that it's required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to 
take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr Z how much it's taken off. It should also 
give Mr Z a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC, 
if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman