DRN-4333653
The complaint
Ms D complains Nationwide Building Society provided her with an unaffordable credit card 
account and credit limit increases.
Ms D is represented on her complaint, but for ease Ill refer to all submissions as though they 
are her own.
What happened
Nationwide initially approved Ms D for a credit card with a limit of £1,200 in September 2012. 
The limit was increased five times across the years, lastly in November 2016 to £4,500.
Ms D complained to Nationwide in August 2022 saying it had irresponsibly provided her with 
the credit card and limit increases. She said had it completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks it would have identified the credit was unaffordable for her at each lending event.
Nationwide didnt consider the original sale and limit increases as it said Ms Ds complaint 
about these lending events had been made outside of the regulatory time limits. Unhappy 
with Nationwides response Ms D brought her complaint to our service for review. 
After resolving the jurisdiction consideration our investigators review considered the final 
limit increase in November 2016 to £4,500. He concluded Nationwide hadnt conducted 
proportionate checks; and that had it done so it would have identified this limit increase 
wasnt affordable for Ms D. He therefore concluded Nationwide made an unfair lending 
decision when approving this limit increase.
Ms D responded accepting the unaffordable lending findings but questioning Nationwides 
activity outside of the lending decisions. She said she should receive compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Nationwide caused in its handling of her complaint; and by 
contacting her to continue to collect the outstanding balance. She also asked that any 
adverse information be removed from her credit file. 
Nationwide responded to our investigators assessment and agreed in principle; but after our 
investigator looked the clarify the redress set out within his assessment, he wasnt able to be 
satisfied that Nationwides acceptance was in line with his recommendations. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
My decision here focuses on the credit card limit increase in 2016 for the reasons Ive set out 
above. Ms Bs other complaint about unaffordable lending on personal loans with Nationwide 
is being dealt with under a separate complaint refence; although in both complaints Ive 
taken into account the overall picture Nationwide had available to it at the time of each 
lending event.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website; and both Ms D and Nationwide are aware of this.
Nationwide needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was 
responsibly lent to Ms D. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time of each of 
Nationwides lending decisions required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. 
These checks needed to assess Ms Ds ability to afford the credit limit being approved and 
repay it sustainably, without causing her financial difficulties or harm.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for Nationwide to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make fair lending decisions. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without the need to borrow further.
Both parties appear to agree that the credit card limit in November 2016 was irresponsibly 
lent; as it was unaffordable for Ms D. So, there is no longer an ongoing dispute about 
irresponsible lending. But what remains in dispute is how Nationwide should put Ms B back 
in the position she would have been in had this limit increase not been approved. And 
Nationwides handling of her complaint and its activity when looking to collect the 
outstanding balance.
Nationwide has confirmed it will refund all interest, fees and charges applied to Ms Ds 
account from the date of the limit increase in November 2016 onwards. It has confirmed that 
this will be on the full debit balance and wont omit any amounts where Ms Ds balance was 
within a previously agreed limit.
So, Nationwide will in effect be removing all of the interest, fees and charges added to 
Ms Ds account from November 2016 without exception. 
I think this is a fair outcome in the individual circumstances. I say this because our usual 
approach in these circumstances would be for Nationwide to refund the interest and charges 
applied from November 2016 onwards on the difference in Ms Ds balance between the 
previously agreed limit (which Ive seen was £3,000) and this increased limit of £4,500. Our 
service hasnt considered any limit increases prior to November 2016 because weve already 
found these to be outside of our jurisdiction. But Nationwides offer puts Ms D in a better 
financial position than our usual approach to these cases would direct it to. 
It also means that as all interest, fees and charges are being removed from November 2016 
onwards that this covers the second part of our investigators recommendations; which was 
to refund all interest, fees and charges applied to the card from June 2017 onwards. 
Ive considered what Ms D has said about Nationwides handling of her complaint; and its 
continued contact when looking to recover the outstanding balance. I know Ms D has been 
from an exceptional time in her personal life; and continues to do so. But I cant find 
Nationwide acted unreasonably in its handling of her complaint; or by looking to recover the 
outstanding balance. I say this because Nationwide is entitled, under the regulatory rules, to raise if it considers 
the complaint to be one raised outside of the time limits set by the regulator. And I cant see 
that Nationwide unreasonably raised these considerations. 
And in relation to contacting Ms D to recover the outstanding debt; I acknowledge that this 
would have been distressing to Ms D, especially given the personal circumstances he has 
made us aware of. But I cant reasonably say Nationwide acted unfairly by contacting Ms D 
to look to recover the outstanding balance. Ms D has had use of the funds, and this is money 
owed to Nationwide. And I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to look to contact 
her to recover the outstanding balance.  
So, having carefully considered all of the evidence in this case Im satisfied that Nationwides 
offer in resolution of the complaint is a fair one; and it therefore follow it should take this 
action to fairly resolve this complaint.
Putting things right
In order to fairly settle Ms Ds complaint Nationwide Building Society should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges added to Ms Ds credit card from November 
2016 onwards, applying any repayments Ms D has made during this time to the 
remaining balance.
a) If this results in the account being in credit, Nationwide Building Society 
should refund the overpayments together with 8% simple interest from the 
point of the overpayments to the point of settlement.
b) If this results in an outstanding balance to pay, Nationwide Building Society 
should agree a suitable/affordable repayment arrangement for the remaining 
balance, while having due consideration for Ms Ds vulnerabilities and ability 
to make repayments.
Once any outstanding balance is repaid Nationwide should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Ms Ds credit file from the final limit increase in November 
2016
Given all of the information Ms D has told us about her past and current financial and health 
circumstances, I would remind Nationwide of its obligations to treat Ms D fairly and 
sympathetically when looking to contact her and arrange any repayment arrangement for 
any outstanding balance.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Ms Ds complaint about Nationwide Building Society 
and direct it to resolve the complaint as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman