DRN-3034631
The complaint
Miss G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard was irresponsible in its 
lending to her.
What happened
Miss G was provided with a credit card account by Barclaycard in January 2018. The credit 
limit applied was £3,500. In February 2019 the limit was increased to £5,000.
In December 2019 Miss G contacted Barclaycard to explain she was experiencing financial 
difficulties. A review was carried out, and a repayment plan agreed.
In October 2020 Barclaycard wrote to Miss G to say it had reviewed the way it set some 
customers credit limits, and that the limit shed been given may have been too high. 
Because of this, it refunded Miss G £43.30. Miss G contacted Barclaycard in December 
2020 and was offered a further £75, which she declined.
Barclaycard said that before the credit limit was increased credit checks took place and 
Miss G met its lending criteria. It said Miss G had been managing her account satisfactorily 
and had no adverse information on her credit file. It said Miss G had been maintaining her 
payments and her account didnt show signs of financial difficulty. Barclaycard didnt accept 
that the lending to Miss G was irresponsible but confirmed that the offer of £75 was still 
available. 
Miss G wasnt happy with what Barclaycard had done to resolve her complaint and referred 
her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She thought the checks carried out before the credit 
card was provided were proportionate and as nothing in the information gathered suggested 
Miss G wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the credit limit of £3,500 alongside her other 
commitments she didnt think it was wrong to provide the credit card. However, she didnt 
think the checks carried out before the credit limit increase to £5,000 took place were 
sufficient given the size of the increase compared to Miss Gs monthly income. She thought 
if more detailed checks had taken place, Barclaycard wouldve found that it was unlikely 
Miss G would be able to sustainably repay the new credit limit of £5,000 alongside her other 
commitments. Because of this she said that it wasnt reasonable to have increased the credit 
limit.
Barclaycard didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that before the credit limit was 
increased it carried out checks which showed her income position, lending commitments and 
expenses and what increase could be afforded. It said Miss G had a balance on her 
Barclaycard, £2,500 on other credit cards, £800 overdraft and £4,000 in loans and no 
mortgage. It said that affordability checks were then carried out to establish what increase 
would be affordable for Miss G. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G was provided with a credit card account by Barclaycard in January 2018 with a credit 
limit of £3,500. This was increased to £5,000 in February 2019. 
As our investigator set out, as a responsible lender, Barclaycard needed to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to make sure Miss G could sustainably repay the credit 
it provided. What amounts to a reasonable and proportionate check will vary depending on 
the circumstances of the case. For example, how much is being borrowed, how long the 
consumer has to pay it back, and what their income is. 
I have looked at the information provided in the application process and can see that Miss G 
is recorded as being retired with a monthly net income of £925. Her living expenses are 
recorded as £323 and her credit commitments as £150. A credit check was carried out which 
showed Miss G had a loan outstanding and balances on two other credit cards. Repayments 
towards these were taken into account in the affordability assessment. Having considered 
the application process, I think the information gathered was proportionate and as this didnt 
raise concerns about the affordability of the credit card account I do not find I have enough 
to say the credit card shouldnt have been provided with the initial £3,500 limit.
Barclaycard increased Miss Gs credit limit to £5,000 in February 2019. This was a 
significant increase (over 40%) and I think it reasonable to expect that further checks should 
have taken place before this additional credit was provided.
Barclaycard has explained that it carried out a credit check. I have looked at the information 
gathered, and this shows Miss Gs other credit card balances, overdraft and outstanding 
loan. Barclaycard has said that Miss Gs balance on her credit card at that time was just over 
£3,100 and this combined with her other credit commitments gave a total outstanding debt 
balance of around £10,500. While I note Barclaycard has said Miss G was maintaining her 
payments, I can see since the Barclaycard had been provided, Miss Gs outstanding balance 
on her other credit cards had been increasing and she was also using the majority of her 
limit on her Barclaycard. Miss G was also increasing her use of her overdraft in the months 
leading up to the credit limit increase. I think this information combined with the fact that 
Miss G was on a relatively low income (less than £1,000 which being retired was unlikely to 
increase in any significant way) should have resulted in Barclaycard carrying out more 
thorough checks to ensure that any further credit advance was sustainably affordable for 
Miss G.
Had further checks been carried out, Barclaycard would have seen that Miss G had taken 
out another credit card in January 2019 which further suggests her indebtedness was 
increasing against a relatively fixed and low monthly income. 
On balance, while I note the comments Barclaycard has made about how Miss G was 
maintaining her account, given the size of the credit limit increase, against the background of 
Miss Gs income and other credit commitments, I think there should have been concerns that 
the increased credit limit wouldnt be sustainably affordable for Miss G. Therefore, I uphold 
this complaint as I do not think that Barclaycard should have increased her credit limit in 
February 2019 to £5,000.
Putting things right
In addition to the £75 already offered, Barclaycard should remove any interest and 
charges incurred as a result of the credit limit increase in February 2019 (not including any that have already been refunded). 
Barclaycard should work out how much Miss G would have owed after the above 
adjustments. And any repayments Miss G has made since 19 February 2019 
(including payments made to a third party) should be used to reduce any remaining 
adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Miss G 
along with 8% simple interest* - calculated from the date of overpayment to the date 
of settlement. Or, if an outstanding balance remains Barclaycard should continue to 
work with Miss G by having a suitable payment plan set up for the outstanding 
amount.
Barclaycard should remove any negative information about the account from 
Miss Gs credit file from 19 February 2019 onwards, and not reapply any negative 
information provided any remaining outstanding balance is repaid within a 
reasonable period of time.
If the debt has been sold Barclaycard should either repurchase it and ensure the 
above is carried out, and/or liaise with the purchase to ensure this happens.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Miss G a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard should take the action set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman