DRN-4038154
The complaint
Mr C brings a complaint about Fisher Investments Europe Limited trading as Fisher 
Investments UK (hereafter referred to as Fisher). He says that Fisher behaved 
unprofessionally when seeking to solicit his custom for discretionary investment 
management services. Mr C also submits that Fisher did not provide him with complete 
subject access within the required timescale, after he made a specific data request.   
What happened
Mr C says he became aware of Fisher after receiving contact on LinkedIn which began 
around 2020. He says that he felt the approach was harassing, but nonetheless he 
eventually agreed to a meeting with one of its advisers. 
Fisher says Mr C requested specific product information brochures via LinkedIn in October 
2017, June 2020, February and August 2021, and finally in January 2022. As a result of 
these enquiries, calls and emails were exchanged between the parties sporadically from 
March 2020 until early 2022, when an introduction meeting was arranged.  
On 22 March 2022, Mr C agreed to speak to a Fisher Private Client Director (who I will 
hereafter refer to as the adviser) via video conferencing, with a view to discussing a 
business relationship and receiving future investment advice. Fisher says the meeting was 
approximately 30 minutes  but there is no recording of it.   
After the meeting Mr C complained to Fisher via email. He said that the adviser had failed to 
listen to anything he said, and the service he received as a prospective client was shocking. 
He set out several areas of concern around the gathering of information, the hard selling 
nature of the call, the behaviour of the adviser and the failure to understand his needs. Mr C 
told Fisher that he felt it was a train wreck of a meeting. 
Later that day, Fishers Executive Managing Director called Mr C  but did not receive a 
reply. On 1 April 2022, Fisher acknowledged the complaint in writing. 
On 19 May 2022, Fisher issued a complaint outcome to Mr C. It said it had a goal to provide 
every person with a positive experience of its business, regardless of whether the person 
goes on to become a client or not. Though it was sorry that the meeting of 22 March 2022 
didnt meet Mr Cs expectations, it did not uphold the complaint and believed the matter 
closed. It said it would, however, use the feedback to engage in additional training 
measures.  
The following day, Mr C complained to this service. He said the adviser failed to identify 
herself, did not evidence her credentials, did not understand or appreciate his investment 
portfolio or objectives, and failed to conduct any type of risk assessment. He also said she 
failed to consider his overseas assets, she refused to listen to his concerns about protecting 
his capital, and she was generally harassing, ignorant and aggressive. 
Mr C said he held grave concerns that other people are being misled by Fisher since the 
poor conduct has been disregarded or referred to as feedback.  
Finally, Mr C said he had to make a Subject Access Request (SAR) because Fisher refused 
to provide him with the data it collected and processed about him internally, and it would not 
provide data regarding its adviser or its investigation.  
On 21 May 2022, Mr C emailed Fisher to say he felt it had failed to undertake a proper 
complaint investigation, as well as breaching law relating to data protection. He also said he 
would refer it to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in relation to how it advertises itself 
on LinkedIn.  
Mr C also said he wished to make a Subject Access Request (SAR) which should be 
provided within one month. He told Fisher that he had made a SAR previously  but it says it 
has had no record of that. 
On 6 June 2022, Fisher wrote to Mr C again. It provided him with the information he had 
sought in response to his SAR. Fisher also said it recognised Mr C remained dissatisfied and 
on that basis it provided a response to key aspects of his email. In summary, it said:
it was wrong of Mr C to assert that no complaint investigation was completed;
the matter had been reviewed in full;
it will not be conducting any further investigation;
it had replied to Mr Cs SAR in accordance with its privacy notice;
the first instance of any such SAR request was by email on 21 May 2022;
it had otherwise obtained relevant consent to contact Mr C in accordance with that 
notice;
it was not required to evidence the credentials of its adviser;
however, to reassure Mr C, it confirmed that the adviser he spoke with was qualified 
and properly registered with the FCA;
Mr C had six months from the date of the final response letter (of 19 May 2022) to 
bring the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service if he hadnt done so 
already. 
Mr C sent an email to Fisher on 9 June 2022 providing further comments, as well as 
including annotations handwritten onto the letter of 6 June. That same day, Fisher emailed 
Mr C a further copy of the SAR information.  
On 17 June 2022, Fisher wrote to Mr C for a final time. It said it had reviewed Mr Cs 
comments and handwritten observations following its previous letter but nothing it had seen 
changed its position. It remained satisfied that it had fully complied with the request for 
personal information under the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR), and it held no 
other information about Mr C that had not already been supplied to him within his SAR. 
When the complaint was originally referred to this service, Fisher objected to it being allowed 
to continue. It said that it did not believe any regulated activity had taken place; nor did it 
consider that Mr C was an eligible complainant  and therefore the complaint Mr C was 
making now did not fall within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint, firstly in respect of our rules  and 
she determined that it ought to be allowed to proceed. 
Fisher thereafter agreed for the complaint to continue. Our investigator then went on to 
review the merits of the complaint. She concluded that Fisher had not done anything wrong 
in the way in which it approached and met with Mr C. She realised Mr C felt unhappy with 
the manner of the introduction meeting but noted Fisher had apologised for this. Finally, our investigator said that she believed Fisher had replied to the SAR within the 
required timeframe  and she didnt think it needed to do anything more.  
Mr C said he disagreed with the outcome reached by our investigator, and the complaint 
should be sent for an ombudsmans review. Mr C said that the investigator had not looked at 
the facts correctly and disregarded the behaviour of Fishers adviser during the meeting by 
transposing facts and downplaying the advisers poor conduct. In his view, that was 
unacceptable.  
In a further email, Mr C made additional comments. I have read these in their entirety, 
though I shant be repeating them verbatim as theyre known to both parties. In summary, Mr 
C said:
he did not accept the summary of the facts as set out by the investigator;
he felt she ought to be required to go back and repeat the facts precisely as he had 
relayed them to her;
she had relied on claims made by Fisher without evidence to support them;
the Financial Ombudsman Service should operate as the consumer watchdog;
on that basis, this service must be obligated to consider the law, specifically as it 
related to false advertising by Fisher on LinkedIn;
this service must also be obligated to obtain the credentials of the adviser to prove 
their qualifications;
we must also obtain an affidavit or similar from the adviser or evidence of a call 
recording because Fisher was legally required to provide a recording;
this service must investigate Fishers use of LinkedIn as a means of promoting 
financial services;
the investigators role was to protect him as a consumer and she has failed to do her 
job;
he remains of the view that he demands proof of the meeting from March 2022;
the complaint has not been properly reviewed, and this service has not seen all of the 
evidence as Fisher has failed to provide it;
even though he requires an ombudsmans decision, he knows it wont be a different 
outcome as ombudsmen always agreed with investigators, which is a stitch up;
he agrees his full name should not be published. 
Our investigator was not persuaded to change her view, and she explained that to Mr C. 
However, he still remained unhappy and submitted further comments, noting:
Fisher had no right to refer the complaint to this service, if our decisions do not 
compel it to act within legal requirements;
otherwise the complaint is a waste of his time and this services time, and Fisher 
ought merely to refer itself to the FCA;
failing that, this service should be required to refer Fisher to the FCA;
in terms of his service complaint, he has the right to refer it to the Independent 
Assessor (IA);
without any recording of the meeting, it has to be the case that his comments are 
material fact as to what happened  and therefore the evidence ought to be weighted 
in his favour;
he asked that our investigator pass the complaint to both the FCA and the IA. 
Fisher reconfirmed that it did not have any recording of the meeting conducted by video 
conferencing. Mr C thereafter pursued a complaint about the service he had received from our investigator, 
specifically in her consideration of the evidence on file. That matter was addressed 
separately by one of our managers.  
Mr C then made some final comments in respect of the complaint:
    
he believes all matters can and should be referred to the FCA;
he also remains steadfast in his view that this service ought to uphold consumer law, 
and we promote ourselves as doing so;
the main crux of his disagreement with the outcome is that he feels our investigator 
failed to look at how Fisher misleads potential customers;
we have a duty to tell Fisher if it needs to alter its professional behaviours; 
as it was, the adviser had no details about his specific assets and investments and 
as such could not conduct a meaningful discussion about global holdings;
he believes the IA should oversee the investigators conduct. 
Fisher did not have any further comments to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their considerable patience whilst this matter has awaited review by an 
ombudsman. I can see how strongly Mr C has about this issue. I do not intend to make 
matters worse for him, but I am not going to uphold this complaint or make any award 
against Fisher. For the reasons Ill go on to explain, I do not find Fishers actions to be unfair 
or unreasonable in the circumstances.
My decision will not review any aspect of the service concerns Mr C has raised about our 
investigator; those were addressed by our team manager. I can see Mr C is also familiar with 
recourse to the Independent Assessor  a process which can occur after a case has closed.  
Ive included a detailed chronology of the complaint in the what happened section of this 
decision. I have done so to assist Mr C and to recognise the depth of his ongoing concerns. 
However, I wont be addressing every individual submission Mr C has made in turn. 
We are not a court; and though there are rules I may rely on in respect of complaint handling 
procedures, I am not required to comment on each point or make specific determinations on 
every submission put forward by the parties. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service provides informal dispute resolution. My remit is to make 
findings on what I believe to be fair and reasonable to both parties in the circumstances and 
this does not follow a prescribed format. Instead, I will set out my reasons for my findings on 
what I consider to be the central issues in this complaint, based on the evidence before me. 
The reason I explain this is because Mr C has told us that he feels this service ought to act 
as a consumer watchdog; that is not the case. Mr C also believed that my decision would 
have to be the same as the investigators  and that is not the case either. I have 
independently reviewed this matter and reached my own determination on the evidence 
before me. Mr C can find further information about our service and how we make decisions 
online at: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/who-we-are/make-decisions.  
Its also important for me to point out that we do not act in the capacity of a regulator. That 
means our decisions dont ordinarily interfere in how a business may conduct its operations or exercise what may be commercial judgment on the provision of a particular service. That 
remit falls to the FCA. So, though Mr C believes otherwise, it is not my role to determine how 
Fisher positions itself in a marketing capacity on networking sites, such as LinkedIn.  
Whilst Mr C is entitled to form his own view on the reasonableness of Fishers approach to 
introducing its services to prospective clients, I must also do the same. And from an 
objective standpoint, I do not consider that the approach or the introductory meeting has 
been unfairly handled.
On each of the six occasions that he requested brochures from Fisher, Mr C consented to 
being contacted to receive information about the services it could offer him. This eventually 
led to the meeting of March 2022 being arranged. 
It is quite clear that Mr C and the adviser did not have any satisfactory exchange of views in 
that meeting  and underlying this was a misapprehension from Mr Cs side that this meeting 
consisted of investment advice (and the adviser could not offer that advice). However, Fisher 
says this was not the case. The purpose of the meeting was for the parties to have an 
introduction, so Mr C could understand what Fisher does and how it operated. If that 
introduction was successful, a further investment fact-find meeting would be arranged.  
In any event, the parties both determined that progression to a second meeting was not 
appropriate. Both Fisher and Mr C say that Mr C was focused on investment holdings 
overseas  in a country where Fisher does not hold regulatory authority. As such, its adviser 
could not assist Mr C. 
Accordingly, because the meeting did not proceed to any form of investment advice, Fisher 
says it was not obliged to retain a recording of the meeting (which would otherwise be a 
regulatory requirement). I agree with this, and do not believe I otherwise ought to compel 
Fisher to provide a transcript that it has not obtained; it has given a reasonable explanation 
as to why the meeting did not need to be recorded. I agree that businesses ought to obtain 
recordings of electronic communications in instances of arranging (bringing about) deals in 
investments  but, on balance, that did not apply here.
I recognise that Mr C continues to feel that the use of his data is a matter of wider concern 
for him  specifically regarding any data Fisher holds. I have seen the complete file Fisher 
provided Mr C and I agree that it sent it within one month of the request of 21 May 2022. 
However, I cannot make findings on whether that provision was a GDPR breach or not. That 
role falls to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), and Mr C can contact that 
organisation about data protection issues, if he requires.
As I have set out above, the parties have markedly different impressions of what happened 
at the 22 March 2022 meeting  and neither account is conclusively verifiable. Instead, each 
party has provided their recollection of events along with the contemporaneous email 
correspondence.
I have not seen any objective evidence by which I can conclude that Fisher has behaved 
unfairly or unreasonably in the context of any regulated activity such that I could make any 
direction or award. If Mr C was unhappy with perceived unprofessionalism on the part the 
adviser, he was able to choose not to undertake any further business relationship with Fisher 
as well as notify it of his concerns and he did both. That aside, the issues he is raising are 
matters which are governed by the FCA and/or the ICO and not otherwise within my remit.
My final decision
I realise that my decision will come as a great disappointment to Mr C. However, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not believe Fisher Investments Europe Limited trading as 
Fisher Investments UK has acted unfairly in the circumstances. I therefore cannot uphold Mr 
Cs complaint or make any award to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman