DRN-4020915
The complaint
Mr O has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) in respect of a 
claim or claims that were logged when a car he was taking for a test drive was damaged.
What happened
Mr O was taking a car for a test drive. He wasnt given any insurance papers. After the test 
drive Mr O reported damage to the car. He said thered been an incident at a fast-food 
restaurant drive-thru. There was damage to the drivers side, as well as to the passenger 
wing mirror and to the passenger-side of the rear bumper. The incident was reported to RSA 
as the insurer. RSA felt there had been three instances of damage  that the damage 
couldnt all relate to one incident. So it recorded three claims. The insurer for the restaurant 
said it would view it as being one incident only, so RSA amended its records. 
All the damage to the car was fixed and RSA sent invoices to the other insurer. However, the 
other insurer wouldnt agree to cover the cost of all the repairs. So RSA withdrew the 
invoices for the passenger-side repairs. RSA didnt re-raise further claims relating to the 
invoices it had withdrawn. After nearly a year the other insurer settled the claim for the 
invoiced repairs on the drivers side. RSA had confirmed that the claim was non-fault against 
Mr O. RSA said it hadnt always handled things as well as it should have done and offered 
£100 compensation.  
Mr O was unhappy though. He felt RSA hadnt treated him in line with the Equality Act and 
had treated him unfairly because he hadnt been given any paperwork at the outset. He felt 
RSA had also acted unfairly in respect of the claim  logging it as three claims and not 
updating him adequately about what was happening. He felt the claim had taken far too long 
to resolve. He said he wanted the black mark of the claim removing from his history. He 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator felt that RSA had acted fairly and reasonably in respect of the claim. And he 
explained why RSA wasnt responsible for providing policy paperwork to Mr O. He didnt 
think RSA had caused unreasonable delays in the claims progress. But felt it could have 
managed things better particularly in respect of the communication it had with Mr O. He felt it 
should pay Mr O £275 compensation in total (including the £100 already offered).
RSA said it accepted the outcome. Mr O said he wanted £2,000 compensation. Our 
Investigator reviewed the complaint but confirmed that he felt £275 compensation was fair 
and reasonable. Mr O remained unhappy so his complaint was passed for consideration by 
an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this was a difficult time for Mr O. And I know the claim is linked to the 
actions of the charity who arranged the test drive for him. Whilst I know he is unhappy with 
the charity  it is separate to RSAs insurance activities. It is RSAs actions as an insurer 
which I am considering here.
As our Investigator explained, RSA did not set the insurance up for Mr O. That was done as 
part of the arrangements for the test drive. So whilst RSA, as an insurer selling Mr O 
insurance, would have needed to provide him with paperwork, in this situation it was not 
liable to Mr O in this respect. So I cant fault RSA for not providing paperwork. And clearly 
adequate cover was provided to protect Mr O as a beneficiary as he did benefit when the 
damage occurred. The car had to be fixed and the other insurer had to be approached for 
acceptance of liability and reimbursement of costs. Further, when the other insurer wouldnt 
agree to cover all of the costs (despite its initial suggestion that it had accepted liability for 
everything), RSA absorbed the outlay.
As a result, Mr O only has one claim recorded against him. I know he believes that there was 
only one claim anyway. And like our Investigator, I do think RSA should have acted to 
formally interview Mr O at the outset. However, I also think that RSAs engineers view  that 
it seemed unlikely the damage in different areas of the car could have been caused in the 
one event  makes sense. Mr O was proceeding through a drive-thru when the drivers side 
of the car connected with a bollard. The restaurant then changed the layout so the bollard 
was no longer in the road, but was part of raised paving. But its unclear how the car, 
connecting with that bollard on the drivers side, could have also been damaged at different 
heights and positions along the passenger-side of the car. I know Mr O has described the 
layout as sandwiching the car. But Ive seen nothing on the other side of the road that could 
have caused damage to either the wing mirror or the rear bumper, on the passenger-side. 
I can see that RSA looked into this and made some reasonable enquiries. And I think it 
acted pragmatically, when the other insurer initially said it was viewing this as one incident, 
to handle the matter in that way.
RSA has confirmed that the one incident was recorded as a non-fault accident as the other 
insurer did reimburse the repair costs. I think RSA reasonably withdrew the part of that claim 
for some of the invoices the other insurer was disputing. If it hadnt the matter may have 
become even more protracted. As it was, the other insurer still disputed the remaining costs. 
RSA answered that challenge adequately in my view and chased reasonably thereafter to 
obtain settlement. I think it managed the claim in a reasonable manner. I cant reasonably 
require RSA to take the one claim from Mr Os record because it accurately reflects an 
incident which occurred.
I think RSA has accepted that it didnt handle things well for Mr O at times though  that is 
particularly the case in its communications with him where I think it failed him. Mr O has 
referenced the Equality Act. I note RSA, at one time, refused to speak to Mr O, insisting on 
dealing only by email. I think this ignored Mr Os specific needs and there wasnt a good 
enough reason for RSA to have insisted on that despite those needs. I accept this caused 
Mr O further frustration  and RSA could have avoided all of that if it had acted early on to 
provide a dedicated point of contact for Mr O.RSA has agreed to pay the £275 compensation recommended by our Investigator. I do think 
that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I know Mr O would like RSA to be made to 
pay him £2,000 compensation. But with regard to our approach to compensation awards and 
other awards, made by this service in similar circumstances, I think an award at that level, 
given RSAs failures and the upset Im satisfied they caused, would be unfair and 
unreasonable. I appreciate, as I noted above, that the incident itself has had some knock-on 
effects for Mr O with the charity involved, and that those effects may well have affected 
Mr Os life over the years since. But, as I explained at the outset, my focus, in this decision, 
is on RSA as the insurer of the damaged car. So in awarding compensation for the impacts 
of RSAs failures, I cant take into account what has happened or how things have changed 
for Mr O due to the charitys view of the incident. 
  
Putting things right
I require RSA to pay Mr O a total of £275 compensation. If £100 has been paid already, then 
it now only need pay the difference remaining.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman