DRN-2628417
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc led him to understand that he would be offered 
another interest only mortgage when the term of his existing loans came to an end. Because 
of that Mr C says he missed the opportunity to explore other providers between June 2018 
and November 2019. Mr C wants HSBC to continue the existing arrangement or agree a 
replacement one. 
What happened
Mr C took out an interest only mortgage with HSBC in 2005 for 14 years with the term 
ending in November 2019.  There was additional borrowing in 2006.The mortgage balance is 
about £107,000. The property is valued about £700,000.  Mr C was 75 in 2019. Mr C had a 
meeting with a HSBC mortgage adviser in June 2018 about the upcoming end of term. 
Although Mr C was in a position to pay off the mortgage he wanted a term extension and Mr 
C says the adviser told him that there wouldnt be a problem extending the term for another 
5-10 years; his age wouldnt be a problem and the arrangement could be finalised in August 
2019 when he says he was told that the rates and terms could be more favourable than they 
were then. 
Mr C then met another HSBC adviser in September 2019 about the possible extension of the 
mortgage term. Mr C wanted a five-year extension as he wasnt ready to pay the mortgage 
off yet. The HSBC adviser said that it couldnt agree to that as the application didnt meet its 
lending criteria. Although Mr C had substantial assets his income was state pension income 
and he failed the affordability test.  A repayment mortgage was discussed but Mr C didnt 
want that. Mr C brought a complaint to us, but our investigator didnt recommend that this 
complaint should be upheld. Mr C disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C had an interest only mortgage with HSBC. The term ended in November 2019 and 
HSBC should have been repaid the outstanding loan at that time. It appears Mr C has 
access to a number of ways to pay off the loan. In an interview with HSBC in September 
2019, Mr C said that he has savings, a property abroad worth 350,000 euro and some 
shares and access to a pension drawdown. In his discussions with HSBC Ive noted that Mr 
C told the bank that he had the cash to pay the loans off but preferred to hold onto it.  Mr C 
said that over the years he had been looking for another property to downsize to but hadnt 
found one that he yet liked. It seems that his preferred method is to downsize at a time of his 
choice and would like the current mortgage to be extended on similar terms as now. 
There are two grounds to this complaint. Firstly, that HSBC unfairly refused his request for a 
term extension and secondly that it gave him incorrect information in 2018 that meant he 
didnt have access to other alternative sources of finance. 
Dealing with the first point. At the end of the mortgage term HSBC expected to get its capital 
repaid. Mr C wanted to remain in the property pending looking for another property to 
downsize to. HSBC considered Mr Cs application and looked at a five year term extension 
but his application failed its test on affordability grounds based on his income being the state 
pension. The term Mr C wanted would also take the lending beyond HSBCs maximum 
lending age of 80. I note that the application was then reviewed by an underwriter. The 
underwriters view that, as Mr C already had the ability to repay the mortgage, he should 
repay it rather than extend the term. I also note that Mr C told our investigator that he didnt 
want a repayment option.
As these loans were taken out before 2014, Ive considered whether the change that Mr C 
requested would have been in his best interests in which case HSBC could have used its 
discretion to set aside its affordability checks in determining whether to grant Mr C the 
mortgage. That requires an assessment of Mr Cs overall circumstances and whether there 
are other options that would allow Mr C to repay the debt whilst remaining in his home. Its 
clear that in 2019, Mr C could pay off the debt to HSBC from his assets and retain his home I 
see no benefit to Mr C  in delaying doing that for another extended period when his personal 
and economic circumstances may change and he may not be in a better position to do so in 
the future. 
A separate issue is that Mr C says that he was told by a mortgage adviser in 2018 that he 
was likely to get such an extension. There is a difference in recollections between the 
adviser and Mr C as to what was said and no independent record of it. I note that it was a 
discussion in the context of what Mr Cs options were at the end of term. Mr C refers to the 
offer of an extension and not a new mortgage. Lenders will often offer short term extensions 
to assist consumers like Mr C coming to the end of an interest only mortgage if, for example, 
they have to sell the property and downsize or liquidate savings to discharge the borrowing. I 
believe its likely that it was in that context that the adviser would have referred to the 
possibility of an extension of the existing mortgage rather than a promise of a new mortgage. 
In any case there was no offer of a new mortgage.
Mr C says that because of the positive prospect that the adviser held out of an extension that 
he suffered by not checking out other providers and so lost out on the opportunity of an 
alternative mortgage. But Mr C has provided no evidence that would support his view that an 
alternative mortgage provision would have been available to him and that he missed out 
purely because of the prospect he says that was held out by HSBC. 
So, for the above reasons, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. I recognise that it may take Mr 
C a period to organise an orderly disposal of his assets to pay off the debt and I would ask 
HSBC to allow Mr C a reasonable period to do that. I would also request that Mr C provide 
HSBC such information as it reasonably requests on that disposal so that its debt is paid in a 
reasonable period.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Gerard McManusOmbudsman