DRN-4257478
The complaint
Miss C complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua did not change her statement date in 
line with her instructions. 
What happened
Miss C says that she contacted Aqua to change her statement date to a couple of days later. 
She says nobody was available to do this for her and she was told she would get a call back, 
but this didnt happen. Miss C says she has received notices of late payment as her monthly 
payments are being recorded as late payments and she is incurring fees as a result of this. 
She says she contacted Aqua to see if this can be changed and they have told her they cant 
change this. Miss C made a complaint to Aqua. 
Aqua did not uphold Miss Cs complaint. They said her statement dated 3 October 2022 
requested a payment of £18.18 due on 20 October 2022, but they received £20 on 22 
October 2022, so they added a late payment fee. As a result of charges and interest, Miss C 
exceeded her credit limit. They said she contacted them on 22 October 2022 and informed 
the call handler she was having difficulty paying online and that she wanted to change her 
due date, but the call handler told her that as her account wasnt up to date, she would need 
to wait for the payment to clear and then request a payment due date change. They said as 
per their account notes, Miss C told the call handler she would call back, but there wasnt 
any evidence of her contacting them after this to change the payment due date. Miss C 
brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Cs complaint. He said there was no evidence to show 
Miss C requested a change in payment dates in August or September 2022 as Aqua has 
been unable to locate any evidence of this call and Miss C is also unable to provide 
evidence to show it took place. As such, he couldnt say Aqua failed to act on an instruction 
to change the payment due date. He said the charges that had been applied to the account 
have been done so in accordance with the terms and conditions. Our investigator said Aqua 
refunded some of the interest and charges as a gesture of goodwill which was more than fair 
given theres no indication they were applied incorrectly.
Miss C asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said she requested the 
payment date change on an outbound call to her from Aquas collection team. She said from 
August 2022 she asked her statement date to be changed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Miss Cs complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by her. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Ive looked through Aquas system notes from the account opening to see what was 
discussed about the change in the statement date. The first instance I can find about this is 
on 22 October 2022, which is later than Miss C believes she first spoke to Aqua about this. 
Ive considered what Miss C has said about a call made by Aquas collections team. A 
collections team would tend to ring a customer when they are in arrears. Ive looked at Miss 
Cs account statements to see when she was in arrears to get an indication of when such a 
call might have taken place as there are no system notes to show they spoke to Miss C on 
any outbound calls during the timeframe shes mentioned. 
Miss Cs statements shows that her first statement was issued on 3 August 2022. It asked 
for a payment to be made by 22 August 2022. So as Miss C had until 22 August 2022 to 
make her payment, its unlikely that Aquas collection team would have tried to ring her when 
she wasnt in arrears. And although Miss C didnt make the payment by 22 August, it was 
received the following day, so again, its probable that the collections team didnt ring her on 
23 August 2022. And as she wanted the payment date to be 22nd of the month, it was the 
22nd for August when she was required to pay by, so its unlikely she had this conversation 
on 23 August 2022 before Aqua received her payment. Her following statement was 
produced on 4 September 2022, required a payment by 21 September 2022 and the 
payment was made on 21 September. So Miss C was not in arrears at any point in 
September 2022, and therefore it would be unlikely for Aquas collections team to give her a 
call when she was not in arrears. 
Her 3 October 2022 statement requested a payment by 20 October 2022. So this would fit in 
with the timeframe of Miss C saying she wanted to move the repayment date to a couple of 
days later. This payment was received by Aqua on 22 October 2022. This was a result of an 
outbound call from Aqua as she missed the payment two days prior. Ive listened to this call. 
Miss C explains she tried to make the payment the previous day, but she was experiencing 
problems with her online banking. The call handler explains there were payment reminders 
that Miss C could set up so she wouldnt incur late fees. Miss C says to be honest, it was a 
call that I was due to, due to make to yourselves, because the payment, you know the date 
that the payment is requested by, I need to know whether that can get changed, for the 
simple fact is that I dont get paid until the 21st of every month.  
So Miss C had told the call handler that she was due to make a call to them. She did not say 
on this call that she had previously spoken to them and they agreed to give her a call back, 
which is what I would expect Miss C to have told the call handler if she had previously had 
this agreed by Aqua. She also asks is there any way of me changing the payment date that 
youre requesting payment by. So again, if Miss C would have had a conversation 
previously about the statement date changing, its unlikely she would have asked if she 
could change the statement date, as she would have already been aware of the answer. 
Miss C makes a payment and the call handler explains that as the payment was made on a 
weekend, it will clear on to her account on Monday. The call handler asks if Miss C wants 
her to look into her changing the payment due date, which Miss C agrees to. The call 
handler explains she cant get onto the system to change the date. The call handler says 
this payment will clear as of erm like midnight on Monday, if you can give us a call back on 
Tuesday, and then erm, youll go through to the customer services, theyll be able to change 
your payment err due day she also says if you go online err online or the app, you can 
actually change err the payment due date yourself. 
Im persuaded that the call Miss C believes she had in August 2022, was the call she 
actually had on 22 October 2022 as it has a lot of similarities to what she said about the call she had with Aqua. It was an outbound call from Aqua, she did want to change her payment 
date forward by a couple of days due to her getting paid on 21st of the month, the call 
handler was unable to change this on the system due to system issues (this is likely because 
the call handler explained the payment wouldnt clear until Monday, so the account would 
have still been in arrears which would be likely why she was unable to change it on the call), 
and she didnt reference any previous conversations with Aqua regarding this. 
So as the call handler was unable to change the payment due date she had asked Miss C to 
either ring back on the Tuesday (the day after her payment had cleared), or for her to 
change the payment due date herself in Aquas application (app). But theres no evidence to 
show that Miss C did either of these things. So I cant hold Aqua responsible for the payment 
date not being changed. And Im not persuaded that Aqua made any errors in how they 
reported Miss Cs payment history to the Credit Reference Agencies. The interest and fees 
they added to her account were in line with the terms and conditions, although I have noted 
as a gesture of goodwill they refunded a £12 overlimit fee charged to her account on 26 
December 2022 and two months interest totalling £35.34. So it follows I dont require Aqua 
to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman