DRN-3271917
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
In September 2020 Mr S acquired a used car through a PCP agreement with MotoNovo. The 
car was registered in March 2017, which means it was about three and a half years old and 
had travelled around 27,104 miles at the time of supply. The purchase price of the car was 
£18,190. Mr S paid a deposit of £1,800 and part exchanged a car which had some previous 
finance to settle, so the total amount financed on this agreement was £16,390 payable over 
48 monthly payments of £363.98 and one final monthly payment of £5,988.97
Mr S said he told the dealer he wanted to lease a car rather than buy one. Mr S said the 
dealer showed him a car which he test drove and was told hed have to put down a deposit 
of £1,800 as an excess to cover damage and was told theyd buy his car from him. Mr S said 
he was told he could change his car after six months of leasing it. Mr S explained thats what 
his friends have done, and he wanted to do the same.
After six months, Mr S said he wanted to change the car but was told hed have to purchase 
the car or pay the remainder of the finance. Unhappy with this, Mr S said he wanted his 
deposit returned and to give the car back. 
MotoNovos system notes have recorded in June 2021 that Mr S contacted them to enquire 
about changing his car, and when told about the settlement figure, complained because he 
thought it was on a lease contract. The notes reflect that he said he never wanted to own car 
and didnt want the hassle of part exchanging or selling it. Mr S said had he known the car 
was provided under a PCP finance agreement, he wouldnt have entered into it.
In July 2021 MotoNovo provided their final response to Mr S complaint. MotoNovo didnt 
uphold the complaint advising that Mr S signed the agreement and was provided with a copy 
of the sales invoice which set out the terms of the contract that he was entering into.
Unhappy with MotoNovos final response, in August 2021 Mr S brought his complaint to our 
service for investigation. Having considered all of the evidence, our investigator said that 
MotoNovo hadnt mis-sold the car to Mr S because Mr S had been provided with the 
necessary information about the agreement he was entering into. So, our investigator didnt 
ask MotoNovo to do anything in relation to the complaint.
Mr S asked that our investigator listen to call recordings from when the agreement had 
started which would demonstrate that he was led to believe it was a lease agreement. Our 
investigator requested the call recordings from MotoNovo which they provided. Following our 
investigators review of the recordings, they issued another view to Mr S however it remained 
unchanged. 
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr S asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. 
When considering what I think is fair and reasonable, I have regard for relevant law and 
regulations. Part of Mr S complaint is about what he was told by the dealer before entering 
into the contract. This means section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant here. 
This explains, under certain circumstances that finance providers are responsible for what is 
said by a credit broker before a credit agreement is entered into.
In this case, the dealer brokered the credit between Mr S and MotoNovo. So, MotoNovo are 
responsible for what the dealer said.
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), which can be found within the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) handbook sets out rules, in respect of credit broking that firms should 
observe. Among other things the rules say a firm must:
Explain the key features of a credit agreement, enabling a customer to make an 
informed choice; and
Advise a customer to read, and allow the customer sufficient opportunity to consider, 
the terms and conditions of a credit agreement before entering into it.
Mr S said had he realised the agreement was a PCP finance agreement he wouldnt have 
entered into it. So, I find that Mr S is effectively saying that the finance agreement was mis-
sold to him. However, in consideration of the FCA rules Ive also thought about whether the 
agreement was mis brokered to Mr S.
To find the PCP agreement had been mis-sold to Mr S Id need to be satisfied that the 
dealership had either induced Mr S to take out the agreement by saying something that was 
untrue and on which he had relied on.
Mr S says he signed the agreement under the belief that he was entering into a lease 
agreement with MotoNovo. Mr S said at the point of supply he decided he wanted a car on 
lease rather than purchase one and that the dealer told him they provided lease vehicles. Mr 
S said he wanted to change his car throughout the term.
One of the main differences between a hire purchase (HP) and a lease agreement is in 
relation to ownership. With a HP agreement the consumer can own the vehicle at the end of 
the contract, if all the payments and contract terms have been met. However, with a lease 
agreement at the end of the leasing term the consumer hands the vehicle back to the leasing 
company.
Having said that, within their terms, and under different circumstances, both types of 
agreement allow a consumer to exit the contract early, which allows the consumer to enter 
into a new agreement for a different vehicle should they wish. MotoNovo said that Mr S signed a legally binding declaration confirming hed read and 
understood and accepted the terms of the PCP agreement. The dealer also disputed that Mr 
S wasnt aware of the terms of the finance agreement.
Having considered all the evidence provided, Im satisfied that the agreement wasnt mis-
sold to Mr S. Ive reached this finding because Ive seen no evidence that MotoNovo 
presented Mr S with information that wasnt true. I acknowledge what Mr S has said about 
the interaction which took place with the dealer when he entered into the contract, however, 
Ive seen no evidence that supports what Mr S has said. So, Im satisfied that Mr S knew he 
was entering into a PCP contract. In addition, as mentioned above, the agreement Mr S 
entered into allowed him to exit the agreement early, if certain circumstances were met.
MotoNovo provided us with a copy of the documents completed at the point of sale, these 
included but were not limited to the PCP agreement, the sales invoice, the precontractual 
agreement and the vehicle deal summary. Im satisfied that as a whole, the documents make 
clear the type of agreement in place was a PCP finance agreement for £16,390 payable over 
48 monthly payments of £398 and an optional final payment of £5,988.97, should Mr S 
decide to purchase the car. 
Within the PCP agreement under the section termination: your rights it also outlines what Mr 
S would have to do to end the agreement early which includes having to pay £12,630.01. 
Im satisfied that the pre contract credit information also meets the requirements of the FCA. 
It provided a clear explanation of the key features of the agreement and advised of the 
option to take the documents way to read carefully before signing them.
In addition to the documentation MotoNovo also provided us with the recordings of a 
telephone conversation Mr S had with MotoNovo less than two weeks after entering into the 
PCP agreement. 
Mr S highlighted that his desire to have a contract that would allow him to change his car on 
a regular basis without much hassle and advised MotoNovo that this was the first time he 
was doing this.
During the phone call, MotoNovo confirmed with Mr S the amount of credit, the repayment 
term and the type of agreement. At one point during the phone call MotoNovo said youve 
gone for a PCP agreementdesigned so you can have lower monthly repayments across 
the finance agreement. MotoNovo went on to cover the three options Mr S would have at 
the end of the agreement, to either purchase the car by paying the optional balloon payment, 
to part exchange the car for another vehicle, and referenced that its likely what Mr Ss 
friends had done, or to hand the car back. 
When MotoNovo covered the key details of the agreement during the phone call with Mr S, I 
note Mr S didnt challenge the type of agreement hed been given. However, I think it would 
have been reasonable for Mr S to do so as around two weeks had already passed since the 
agreement started
I acknowledge during the call Mr S expressed his desire to have a contract that would allow 
him to change his car on a regular basis, possibly after six months without much hassle and 
advised MotoNovo that this was the first time he was doing this. However, Even had Mr S 
leased the car Im satisfied that its unlikely hed be able to hand the car back after six 
months without there being a financial penalty. Both agreement types allow the car to be 
handed back early but not without some cost.From reviewing the call recordings Im satisfied that MotoNovo provided Mr S with enough 
information together with the point of sale documents for him to understand the type of 
agreement he was entering into, and the conditions attached if he decided to change his car. 
So, all things considered Im not persuaded that Mr S had been mis-sold or had the 
agreement mis-brokered by MotoNovo claiming the agreement type was a lease. Im 
satisfied that the point of sale documents, and the conversations Mr S had with MotoNovo 
within a couple weeks of entering into the agreement, were enough to ensure Mr S knew 
what type of agreement he was signing up for.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint about MotoNovo 
Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman