DRN-3499162
The complaint
Mr A complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund him for payments made from his account.
What happened
Mr A had 13 payments leave his account, all made by card, to a betting company. Mr A 
contacted TSBs fraud department and told it he hadnt authorised any of the payments.
TSB didnt refund any of the payments and sent Mr A to the betting company to ask for a 
refund. The betting company directed Mr A back to TSB.
Mr A complained, and TSB responded and said fraudsters dont use other peoples cards to 
place bets. The reasoning behind this is any successful bets are paid back to the card the 
money initially came from.
Unhappy with this response, Mr A brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld. They saw Mr A had 
paid several amounts of money into his TSB account to allow the payments to be made.
The investigator couldnt explain how someone else had made the payments, knowing 
money was coming into Mr As account. On balance, the investigator thought it was more 
likely Mr A had authorised the payments.
Mr A said TSB didnt have a tool to stop people placing bets, but, in any event, he hadnt 
authorised the payments so TSB should refund him. Mr A asked for an ombudsman to 
decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general rule TSB can hold Mr A liable for card payments made from his account where 
the evidence suggests he made or authorised the payments.
Looking at the payments leaving Mr As account, these are made within a minute of 
payments in. Ive looked at the first payment, Mr A credited money to his account at 14.08 
and the card payment to the betting company was made at 14.09.
The further 12 card payments follow a similar pattern.
Mr A hasnt said the payments into his account were unauthorised. Im satisfied each 
payment in was made by Mr A. And each payment in is followed by a same, or very similar 
value payment to the betting company.
Mr A also checked his banking application after the tenth payment. At this point Mr As 
account would have been showing a credit balance. But, because of the card payments, 
Mr As available balance was a few pence. By this point Mr A had credited £157.
Im satisfied Mr A would have seen these pending payments on his mobile application on the 
day the transactions were made. But Mr A then credited a further three payments to his 
account and all were used almost immediately to place bets.
I cant see how anyone else could have known Mr A would be transferring money to his 
account. And I cant see how Mr A didnt realise the money he was transferring was being 
spent. I think the only likely explanation is Mr A authorised these payments.
And because I think its more likely than not Mr A authorised all the payments its fair and 
reasonable for TSB to hold Mr A liable for these payments. I dont think TSB needs to refund 
anything to Mr A.
Mr A is frustrated TSB sent him to the betting company, only to be sent back to TSB. 
Although this wasnt the right thing to do, I dont feel it had a significant impact on Mr A.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman