DRN-3448303
The complaint
Mr K complains Allay Claims Ltd has charged him success fees for payment protection 
insurance (PPI) claims he said he never authorised them to make.
What happened
Mr K said he asked Allay to carry out a free PPI check. But he hadnt given them any 
instruction to pursue any PPI claims on his behalf. He said his intention was to see if hed 
any PPI and then claim directly with his lender(s).
Mr K said he was told PPI had been found and Allay asked him to sign letters of authority 
(LoA) for them to pursue the claims. Mr K said he didnt sign any of the forms. He 
complained to Allay.
Allay said Mr K had initially asked for them to act for him in March 2019 when he signed a 
LoA, for a previous address. They subsequently received further LoAs after Mr K changed 
his address and details of another nine lenders. They said theyd acted in good faith in 
submitting these to Mr Ks lenders, pursuing his PPI claims based on the information 
provided to them in the application. In September 2019, Allay said theyd updated Mr K when 
PPI had been found for accounts with one of his lenders Ill refer to as R, and theyd 
provided him with their claims service. Allay said they asked Mr K to complete a PPI 
questionnaire (PPIQ) to strengthen his claim that the PPI had been mis-sold. Allay said the 
PPIQ was completed and returned to them the same day , and theyd submitted this to R.
Allay said R  and another lender Ill call H told them when Mr Ks claims were successful, 
and as he hadnt cancelled his agreement with them, they said their fee was justified.
Mr K wasnt happy with Allays response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Mr K, on balance, had authorised Allay to act on his behalf for his PPI 
claim with R. But Mr K had looked to cancel his agreement concerning H in January 2020 
before he was told by Allay that PPI had been found, and before they were providing their 
claims service for any mis-sold PPI claims hed with H. But he was given incorrect 
information about this claim, so the cancellation hadnt been actioned. Our investigator said 
Allays fees for the successful claims with R were justified. But said the fees charged for 
lender H werent.
Allay accepted that the fee for H wasnt justified. Mr K didnt agree that he should pay the 
fees for R. He said he hadnt signed the LoAs and that Allay hadnt followed regulations as 
theyd pursued claims with only a digital signature. He also said he hadnt been sent a 
cancellation form or the agreement in a durable medium. He asked for his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im partially upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Both parties have accepted that the fees for lender H arent justified. So I wont consider 
this further as Allay has agreed to waive this fee. What is still in dispute are the fees Allay 
have charged for PPI claims made to Mr Ks lender R. 
I can understand Mr Ks frustration as he feels strongly that he didnt authorise Allay to act
on his behalf to pursue a PPI claim with R. And doesnt accept the signature on the LoAs 
are his. Allay also feel strongly that theyd Mr Ks authority to submit his PPI claim to his 
lenders, and it was their work that meant Mr Ks claims were successful.
Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I have to base my decision
on what I think most likely happened. I understand Mr Ks concerns about the LoAs Allay 
said hed signed that authorised them to pursue a claim of mis-sold PPI on his behalf. But it 
isnt our role to validate a signature. Were an informal dispute resolution service, this means 
were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on one sides 
story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information were 
given.
So, I need to determine whether, on balance, I think Mr K authorised Allay to act on his
behalf. And if he had, whether he let them know he no longer wanted them to work for him.
Ill also consider whether I think Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with 
Mr K.
Its not in dispute that Mr K made an online application asking Allay to carry out a free PPI 
check. Allay has shown an online application for Mr K for a free PPI check was made in 
March, June and August 2019. The personal details in the application(s) correlate with the 
personal details Mr K has given to us. The application(s) also needed details of Mr Ks 
lenders, and these details were also provided.
Allay has shown the audit trail for the on-line application(s) and the information that was
supplied. They said that the terms and conditions had been agreed to. And by agreeing to
the terms and conditions this would have generated the LoA populated with the personal
details that had been supplied. Allay said the LoA couldnt be submitted without a signature
being added. And an acknowledgement would have been sent to Mr K after it was 
submitted. Mr K said a wet signature was needed for an agreement. But the relevant 
guidance for claims management companies (CMC) such as Allay does allow for a digital 
signature to be acceptable.
As the information provided was specific to Mr K, and he has confirmed that he was aware 
the information was supplied. Ive no reason to doubt that Mr K or someone acting on his 
behalf submitted the online application(s). And  I can see from Allays records a LoA 
submitted to them dated 25 August 2019  was sent to R just prior to the deadline date for 
making such claims. 
As outlined above Allays terms and conditions were available to see and that they could be 
downloaded in a durable medium. In submitting the LoA Mr K would have had to agree to 
them.
Allays terms and conditions say:We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will
apply.
In  September 2019, I can see from Allays records they sent to Mr Ks email address (the 
same email address given to us) notification that R had told them theyd found PPI on his 
accounts and that they would investigate his claim that PPI had been mis sold. The 
notification was headed Great News and went on to say theyd submitted Mr Ks claim to 
his lender. 
In 2019, leading up to the August PPI deadline many CMCs amended their terms and 
conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims. And reflected that lenders 
could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. A PPIQ wasnt always needed 
for a PPI claim to be considered. But the information could be used to strengthen the claim 
that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So, for some lenders the submission of a LoA was accepted 
as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to investigate the 
mis-sold PPI claim. This is generally referred to as the claim being auto converted. But some 
lenders asked for a wet signature and for a PPI questionnaire to be completed  for them to 
investigate whether any PPI had been mis-sold.
I cant see that R asked for a wet signature, and  it was Allay who recommended that Mr K 
complete a PPIQ to support his claim that hed been mis-sold PPI. The notification sent by 
Allay to Mr K in September 2019 provided a link to the PPIQ. I can see from Allays records 
that the PPIQ was completed and returned to them the same day. So, I think it was clear 
from Allays terms and conditions that from this point the free PPI check period would end as 
any successful claim would incur a fee.
Allay has shown that in October 2019 they submitted a letter of complaint with the completed 
PPIQ to R. And that R acknowledged receipt of the submitted documents the same 
month. 
In December 2019, R notified Mr K and Allay that six PPI claims had been successful for 
loans *9718, *4027, *6565, *0072, *6446 and *3957 and offered in total redress for the mis-
sold PPI claims, £6,122.89. I know Mr K said he planned to claim directly with his lenders 
once he found hed PPI. 
Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have been accepted by the 
lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so. And Ive only seen 
evidence that Allay submitted Mr Ks claims before the August 2019 deadline. The 
notifications sent by R I think show R recognised Allay as being authorised by Mr K, and 
that they werent solely dealing with Mr K for his PPI claims.
Ive considered whether Mr K cancelled his agreement with Allay. Their  terms and 
conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14 day cooling off period during which
you can cancel your contract with us. If at any time during the 14 day cooling
off period we obtain an offer of compensation for you, our normal fee will be payable.
And go on to provide various ways the agreement can be cancelled, including a cancellation 
form:
To cancel your contract with us, either call Customer Services on 0191 462 0000,email your cancellation request to cancellations@allay.co.uk, download a Cancellation Form 
from our website www.allay.co.uk or write to us at The Processing Centre,
Trafalgar Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 2LA.
I can see from Allays records they told Mr K that PPI had been found 19 September 2019, 
and so from this point he would have had a 14 day cooling off period to cancel the 
agreement without incurring any charge. This meant Mr K would have had up to and 
including 2 October 2019 to cancel the agreement without incurring any fees.
I can also see from Allays records a number of emails and text messages were sent to Mr K 
throughout September to the same email and mobile phone number he has given to us. But I 
havent seen any evidence that Mr K asked or attempted to cancel the agreement.
As Mr K hadnt told Allay he wanted to cancel his agreement with them before he received 
his redress in December 2019 Allay had continued to provide their services, and to update 
Mr K about his PPI claim. So, Im satisfied that Mr K authorised Allay to act for him in 
pursuance of his PPI claim(s), and that he hadnt cancelled his agreement with them.
The agreement Mr K had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. Allay charged a
percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook.
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. When a
claim was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And Mr Ks claims
were successful.
Allays fees were charged in line with what Mr K agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats in
place for PPI claims. Mr K could have cancelled his claim with Allay. But I cant see he
cancelled the claim before it was successful.
I agree with our investigator that Mr K tried to cancel the agreement hed with Allay for lender 
H in January 2020 before the end of the free PPI check period, Mr K wasnt told by Allay 
that PPI had been found for lender H until early February 2020, but Allay didnt cancel the 
agreement. Allay has agreed to waive their fee for Mr Ks successful claim with H
I know Mr K will be disappointed by my decision, that the fee being charged by Allay for his 
claims with R are justified. But, on balance, Im satisfied that Allay was authorised by him to 
act on his behalf and his claims with R were  successful. This means Allay have acted fairly 
and reasonably in charging their fees for these claims.My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. And ask Allay Claims Ltd to waive their fee for Mr Ks claim 
with lender H only.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman