DRN-3163459
The complaint
Mr S complains about a loan provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited trading as Loans 2 
Go, which he says was unaffordable.
  
What happened
  Loans 2 Go provided Mr S with a loan. The details of which are given in this table:
Taken Amount Instalments Monthly 
RepaymentTotal to repay
13/09/2019 £500 18 months £114.28 £2057.04
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 November 2021. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Did L2G carry out proportionate checks?
I can see that Loans 2 Go asked Mr S about his income and expenditure. It has told our 
service that it adjusted Mr Ss income and expenditure based on an online verification tool 
for his income, and its own calculations using what it had in front of it for expenditure. It says 
it made its calculations about Mr Ss expenditure by using what it saw in his credit report and 
also added a buffer of 10% for any unexpected spend.  
It reduced Mr Ss declared income from £2650 a month to £2356.85 after verifying this. It 
then increased what Mr S says his expenditure was of £1400, to £1977.48, based on checks 
it carried out this included a credit search. 
Ive carefully considered what Loans 2 Go has said about how it calculated Mr Ss 
disposable income when it agreed to the loan. I acknowledge the comments it has made, but 
I dont think its checks were proportionate for this loan. This is because I can see there was 
a discrepancy between what Mr S said about his expenditure and what it says it could see 
through its checks. I dont think Loans 2 Go should have accepted the loan knowing or 
having reason to suspect Mr S wasnt being truthful about his income or expenditure in this 
case. In this instance the discrepancy between what Mr S said his income and expenditure 
was and what Loans 2 Go calculated it was, was fairly wide. So, I think Loans 2 Go should 
either have carried out further checks to see if there were good reasons for this, or it 
shouldnt have provided Mr S with the loan. This leads me to think that Loans 2 Go needed 
to take additional steps to verify what Mr Ss actual monthly expenditure was and carry out 
further checks about his income.
In addition to this, Loan 2 Gos credit search results for Mr S showed credit impairment. He 
was in arrears on two of his accounts: a credit card and a loan. And I agree with our 
investigator when she said Mr S had taken out a lot of credit within a short space of time 
leading up to the application for this loan. I think all of this ought to have prompted Loans 2 
Go to find out more and carry out further checks to assure itself that the loan repayments for 
this loan were sustainable for Mr S. 
So, as I have concluded that Loans 2 Go needed to carry out further checks for the loan, I 
need to consider what it would have seen if it had done so. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Loans 2 Go that Mr S would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Loans 2 Go was required to establish whether Mr S could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided including reviewing a detailed credit report 
that Mr S has provided. The credit report gives a detailed picture of what Mr Ss finances 
were like at the time he applied for this loan, and I think more likely than not show what 
Loans 2 Go would have uncovered if it had carried out further checks. 
Having looked through this recent credit report, its clear to me that Mr S was reliant on using 
finance to cover a short fall in his finances including taking loans by other short-term lenders 
at the time he applied for this loan. At the time Loans 2 Go granted the loan, Mr S was 
paying off 7 open short-term loans with other finance providers. He was also persistently in 
his overdraft which was attracting fees. At the point Loans 2 Go agreed to this loan, Mr S 
would have taken on credit commitments that took up at least 35% of his income each 
month. Mr S was also in arrears on 7 accounts also. It is clear to me after seeing this, that 
Mr S was struggling to manage his finances. In short, the loan repayments for this loan from 
Loans 2 Go wouldnt have been sustainable. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have shown Loans 2 Go that Mr S would not have been able to 
sustainably repay this loan. So, Im satisfied that Loans 2 Gos failure to carry out 
proportionate checks resulted in it unfairly providing this loan to Mr S.
So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right with the loan for the reasons given above.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Loans 2 Go responded and said it has no further comments. Mr 
S responded through his representatives, and said he agreed with the findings in the 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Both parties have not made any further points. So, as neither party has anything further to 
add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With 
that being the case, Loans 2 Go now needs to put things right. Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr S shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed for the loan. With this in mind, Loans 2 Go should:
add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Mr S made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr S was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr S to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ss credit file because of the loan;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman