DRN-4049575
The complaint
Mr E complains about the advice given by L J Financial Planning Ltd (LJ Financial) in 
relation to his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme and his desire to transfer 
it to a personal pension arrangement  a Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme 
(QROPS). Mr E says L J Financials actions have caused significant financial loss.
What happened
Mr E approached L J Financial in 2016 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Mr E 
was referred to L J Financial by another party.
L J Financial completed a fact-find in April 2016 to gather information about Mr Es 
circumstances and objectives. L J Financial also carried out an assessment of Mr Es 
attitude to risk, which it deemed to be moderately adventurous. 
On 23 August 2016, L J Financial advised Mr E not to transfer his pension benefits into a 
QROPS and invest the proceeds in an investment scheme Mr E had sourced, but to retain 
his DB scheme benefits. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation 
were:
It couldnt recommend the transfer away from valuable benefits based on future 
circumstances that might not happen;
Because of the term to retirement (around 19 years) there was no benefit in 
subjecting Mr E s plan to investment risk and additional cost in the short-term;
It didnt know where Mr E was going to move to in the future, so it wasnt able to 
assess whether the QROPS Mr E had sourced was the most appropriate solution;
As it didnt know the details of the investment portfolio Mr E intended to use, it 
couldnt assess whether it matched Mr Es attitude to risk and what yield it was likely 
to achieve;
It couldnt assess the liquidity, capital, or other risks that could impact the fund value, 
so retaining the guarantees on offer through the DB scheme was appropriate;
Mr E stood a better chance of achieving his desired retirement income by remaining 
in his DB scheme;
It didnt believe Mr E had the capacity for loss giving the illiquid nature of his estate 
and the significant mortgage debt outstanding, so a guaranteed income in retirement 
would be appropriate for him.
In 2017 Mr E went ahead with the transfer of his DB pension scheme benefits. 
As part of the paperwork required by the scheme trustees to affect the transfer, L J Financial 
signed two confirmation of advice documents  in July 2017 and August 2017  to confirm 
that it had provided Mr E with the required advice as set down by the industry regulator the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
In 2022, Mr E complained to L J Financial, using the services of a representative, about the 
suitability of the transfer advice.  
L J Financial didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. It said its advice to Mr E was to retain the 
benefits of his DB scheme and not to transfer. It said no investment advice was given. It 
enclosed its suitability report of August 2016.
Mr Es representative replied saying that the advice it was referring to was given by L J 
Financial in July 2017 and it also referred to the signed confirmation of advice forms theyd 
signed in July and August. It said while Mr M has confirmed he received advice from L J 
Financial not to transfer, he received a phone call from them during which they explained 
that the advice not to transfer was just a formality, which had to be fulfilled. It says this 
narrative is supported by the advice confirmation document which L J Financial signed 
despite providing advice to the contrary. It said telling Mr E that he should not transfer, at the 
same time as saying this was only a formality and then proceeding to facilitate the transfer is 
not communicating in a clear and unambiguous manner.
L J Financial repeated that it did not facilitate the transfer and its advice was for Mr E to 
remain in his DB scheme. It said it had to sign the Section 48 certificate (confirmation of 
advice) to confirm that Mr E had received advice. It said the certificate is to confirm this and 
it does not say what the advice is. It said it disputed that it told Mr E that its advice not to 
transfer was just a formality.
Mr E, via his representative, referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked at all of this and they didnt uphold the complaint. In summary they said L J 
Financials advice was clear that Mr E should not transfer. They said there was no evidence 
to support what Mr E said about being told the advice was a formality and encouraging him 
to transfer. They said L J Financial were obliged to sign the confirmation of advice form, 
which simply confirmed that it had provided Mr E with advice  it was a regulatory 
requirement to do so given the value of Mr Es pension. They said that while the signed 
confirmation allowed Mr E to transfer his pension, there was no evidence that L J Financial 
facilitated it. 
Mr E disagreed. In summary he said the quality of the advice from L J Financial fell below 
the standards expected. He said L J Financial should not have signed the confirmation of 
advice form confirming that it gave advice specific to the type of transaction proposed by the 
member. He said L J Financial did not consider the receiving scheme in its advice, so the 
advice did not comply with the relevant rules. He said he was provided with conflicting 
advice and enclosed a copy of an email, which he says confirms the adviser contacted him 
to sign off the transfer to proceed. He said all of this demonstrates he was given inconsistent 
advice and L J Financial failed to comply with the rules and guidance including in relation to 
insistent clients.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of L J Financial's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to not uphold this 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. My reasons are set out below.
The regulators position
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, L J Financial 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Es best interests.
L J Financials advice
It does not appear to be in dispute that L J Financial advised Mr E not to transfer the benefits 
from his DB scheme and to remain in the scheme. Nevertheless, for clarity Im satisfied this 
was the case. I can see that L J Financials suitability report of 23 August 2016 is clear that it 
was not in Mr Es best interests to transfer for the reasons I set out in the background 
section above and so he should remain in the DB scheme. And while Mr E has not 
specifically complained about this aspect of L J Financials advice or actions in this regard, 
for the sake of completeness, I consider L J Financials advice that Mr E should remain in his 
DB scheme was reasonable in the circumstances. 
I can see L J Financial considered, amongst other things, the fact that Mr Es anticipated 
retirement was many years away; it did not have the details of the intended receiving 
scheme and investment plan Mr E had sourced himself for the proposed transfer, so it could 
not assess the suitability in terms of risk profile and likely returns; and it did not consider it 
was necessary for Mr E to risk his benefits and that a guaranteed income in retirement was 
more appropriate, particularly given Mr Es outstanding debt and illiquid estate. In addition to 
the above I can see that L J Financial took Mr Es wider circumstances into account in giving 
its advice. So I think the overall conclusion L J Financial reached that Mr E should not 
transfer his pension benefits, was reasonable in the circumstances.Turning to what appears is the crux or main thread of Mr Es complaint and his strong 
representations around the subsequent advice confirmation paperwork L J Financial signed. 
I understand that Mr E says that, because L J Financial signed this paperwork it undermined 
or contradicted the advice he received not to transfer and by signing it, it ultimately facilitated 
the transfer of Mr Es pension out of his DB scheme in 2017. Mr E therefore believes it is 
responsible here.
But I disagree with the argument Mr E makes. Ill explain why. Mr E approached L J 
Financial to provide him with advice about the possibility of transferring the benefits from his 
DB pension. Because the value of Mr Es preserved benefits was more than £30,000, Mr E 
was obliged to seek advice (based on the requirement set down by the regulator) before he 
could do so. It is not the case that Mr E could only transfer if the advice he received was a 
positive - i.e. a recommendation to transfer. The requirement is only that Mr E should receive 
advice. 
L J Financials advice to Mr E not to transfer out of his DB scheme was given in August 2016 
and in my view it was clear. In 2017, Mr E made arrangements to transfer his pension, which 
appears to have been the result of his interactions with another business and/or at his own 
request. So when Mr Es DB scheme trustees contacted L J Financial to ask it to confirm that 
it had provided Mr E with advice about his DB scheme benefits, L J Financial fairly and 
reasonably signed the necessary forms to say that it had. The confirmation it gave was not 
that it had provided Mr E with positive advice to transfer as Mr E argues  it was only to 
confirm that it had provided Mr E with the requisite advice. It did not have to say what that 
advice was.
I can see Mr E says L J Financial should not have signed the confirmation of advice form 
confirming that it gave advice specific to the type of transaction proposed by the member 
because it did not consider the receiving scheme, so its advice did not comply with the 
relevant rules. But I disagree. As I set out earlier on, one of the reasons L J Financial gave 
why it couldnt recommend the transfer was because it didnt have sufficient detail about the 
proposed receiving scheme. But not having sufficient detail about it doesnt mean its advice 
wasnt specific to the type of transaction proposed. I think L J Financials suitability report 
shows that it was specific to what was proposed and that its advice was clear. I dont think
L J Financial has done anything wrong here. 
Overall I dont think L J Financial has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. L J Financial 
signed the confirmation of advice paperwork as it was obliged to do. And while that meant 
the transfer of Mr Es DB scheme benefits went ahead in 2017, this appears to have been 
the result of Mr E employing the services of and dealing with another business  not L J 
Financial. Im satisfied that Mr Es ultimate transfer of his DB scheme benefits was not the 
result of a positive recommendation or advice from L J Financial that he should do so -  it is 
not responsible for the ultimate transfer of Mr Es DB scheme benefits.
I can see that Mr E has made reference to L J Financial not following insistent client 
guidance in its dealings with him. But this isnt relevant here  as Ive said above L J 
Financial did not facilitate the transfer of Mr Es pension. 
Mr E has also said that L J Financial spoke to him on the phone and told him that the advice 
not to transfer was simply a formality and that he should go ahead. He says not only does 
the confirmation of advice paperwork support this, but hes provided an email dated August 
2017, which he says also supports this. This says:
Just a quick one to let you know that [x] called you earlier, and apparently left a voicemail message.
He just needs a quick chat about the pension transfer analysis, and following this can sign-
off on the return to....for the QROPS request to be made.
Should be fairly routine.
Firstly, L J Financial does not have a call recording of any phone call with Mr E around this 
time or any other information to support what Mr E says it told him. Secondly, the copy of the 
email Mr Es provided did not originate from L J Financial  its from a third party who isnt a 
party to this complaint. So I dont think I can place much weight on this. 
But Im also not persuaded that the timing of things supports Mr Es argument. The above 
email is from August 2017, which is 12 months after L J Financial provided its advice to Mr E 
not to transfer. So why would it tell Mr E, at this stage that the advice not to transfer was just 
a formality and that he should go ahead with it? It appears by this stage Mr E had already 
made up his mind to transfer because L J Financial had received paperwork from Mr Es 
scheme trustees in relation to this in July 2017 when it asked it to confirm that it had 
provided Mr E with advice in relation to his scheme benefits.
I can see Mr Es representative has referred to advice given by L J Financial to Mr E in 2017 
pointing to a copy of a suitability letter dated 26 July 2017. I can also see that the 
investigator suggested Mr E contacted L J Financial around this time and it repeated its 
advice from 2016. But I dont think this is what happened. Im satisfied L J Financial gave its 
advice to Mr E in 2016. The suitability letter dated August 2017 is an identical copy to the 
one from 2016. I think the copy dated 2017 simply bares that date because this is the date it 
was printed out by L J Financial in connection with the signing of the first confirmation of 
advice paperwork, which also bares the same date. I dont think there was any interaction 
with Mr E around July 2017.
Nevertheless I accept that the email evidence Mr E has provided suggests it was likely there 
was a phone conversation between Mr E and L J Financial in August 2017. But taking all of 
the above into account, Im not persuaded the evidence supports what Mr E says happened. 
I think a more likely explanation for any phone call is that, given the timing of things, this was 
likely in relation to L J Financial signing a second confirmation of advice form from the 
scheme trustees, which took place in August 2017. As I said above, I find it unlikely L J 
Financial wouldve encouraged Mr E to transfer some 12 months after advising him not to go 
ahead. 
I understand Mr E will be disappointed with my decision and Im sorry if hes lost out as a 
result of transferring his DB pension scheme benefits. But for the reasons Ive set out above, 
Im satisfied this is not as a result of anything L J Financial has done wrong, so theres 
nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint, so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman