DRN-2294405
The complaint
Mr A, whos represented by a third party, says Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in May 1995. He took the policy out at the same 
time as applying for a credit card. 
What happened
Mr A says he didnt know the PPI had been added to his credit card account and he wasnt 
given any information about the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint because:
I think Barclays made Mr A aware that the PPI was optional and that it was his 
decision to take it out. Although Mr A initially thought hed taken out the PPI by way of a 
postal application, weve seen that the application form was filled out in a branch of 
Barclays. On the form, Mr A was asked to indicate if he wanted PPI by ticking a box 
to show he wanted it. Mr A did this. If hed left this section blank the PPI wouldnt 
have been added to his credit card. So I think its fair to say that the PPI was added 
at his request.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr A but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
him based on what Ive seen about his circumstances at the time. The policy would 
have paid out for up to 12 months if Mr A had made a successful claim. This would be in 
addition to existing benefits or other sources of funds. Mr A told us he was entitled to 
some employer benefits if he wasnt able to work. He also mentioned having an 
income protection policy but unfortunately hasnt been able to give us any details. 
Mr A also said he could have relied on his partner to help out, but thats something 
that would very much depend on his partners financial circumstances  something 
that can always be subject to change.
So I think, based on what Ive seen, Mr A could well have found it difficult to make 
his monthly payments fairly soon after being off work due sickness or if he were to 
lose his job. It follows that the PPI cover, which would pay out for up to 12 months if 
Mr A made a successful claim, was likely to have been suitable for Mr A.
Ive seen that the policy cost 70p for each £100 Mr A owed on the card. If he made a 
successful claim, Mr A would have had 10% of the outstanding balance on the card 
paid for up to 12 months. The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other 
similar policies offering similar benefits at the time and it appears to have been 
affordable.
So having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr A. 
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr A, Barclays also had to give him clear 
enough information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Barclays gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think the 
policy was suitable for him, I dont think better information wouldve stopped him 
from buying it. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman