DRN-3215261
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as E, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as 
Yorkshire Bank) declined its request for a loan under the Coronavirus Business Interruption 
Loan Scheme.
Mr K is Es director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
E applied to Clydesdale for a loan of £100,000 under the Coronavirus Business Interruption 
Loan (CBIL) Scheme in October 2020. It had already obtained a £50,000 loan under the 
Bounce Back Loan Scheme, and wanted to refinance this while borrowing a further amount 
to support the business in dealing with the ongoing impact of the coronavirus pandemic.
Clydesdale liaised with E through November and December about the application, asking for 
further information along the way to consider the request. 
On 10 December, the business development manager dealing with Es application emailed 
Mr K to advise that she had been unable to demonstrate that E could service the proposed 
loan satisfactorily. She said that the monthly payments would be £2,080 and would leave E 
with a deficit of £6,000 each month  and while she offered to review things again, she said 
it was very unlikely that the banks underwriters would approve the application.
Mr K emailed back to say that E could pay £6,000 upfront, or deposit it in an account with 
the bank, in an effort to satisfy its concerns. 
Clydesdale only responded some weeks later, on 7 January 2021, after Mr K had chased on 
a number of occasions. The business development manager confirmed that the bank was 
unwilling to approve Es CBIL application on the basis that it didnt pass the viability and 
affordability assessments, while also referencing considerations of Es account conduct, 
capital adequacy and the trade and transactions going through its account.
Mr K challenged Clydesdales decision, including by way of complaint. But it remained 
unchanged. Mr K was also unhappy with delays on Clydesdales part in dealing with the 
application, for which the bank apologised.
Mr K then referred his concerns to us and the complaint was reviewed by one of our 
investigators. But he didnt think Clydesdale had done anything wrong. He said, in summary, 
that:
Under the rules of the CBIL Scheme, Clydesdale had the authority to decide whether 
to offer finance to E. And there were certain criteria against which the bank had to 
assess Es application  including whether the proposal was one that wouldve been 
considered viable were it not for the pandemic.
Clydesdale had declined Es application due to concerns over the viability of the 
proposal. And having reviewed the information on which its decision was based, he 
thought this was reasonable  finding that the bank had reasonably deemed the 
prospective loan repayments unaffordable for E.
While noting that Clydesdale hadnt specifically responded to Mr Ks proposal to 
deposit £6,000 upfront, he didnt think that suggestion wouldve affected the banks 
decision or eased its affordability concerns.
In response to Mr Ks concerns that Clydesdales business development manager 
had inappropriately pushed E towards other more expensive lending in place of the 
CBIL, he said the bank hadnt done anything wrong in suggesting that E may want to 
consider other options in light of its unsuccessful application.
Although he accepted that the application process had probably taken longer than it 
should have, he couldnt see that this had really impacted E. 
Mr K didnt accept our investigators view. He thought that the companys past performance 
had been unfairly overlooked and said that it wouldnt have needed the loan were it not for 
the pandemic. He thought that the banks concerns only came down to a possible £6,000 
shortfall, for which hed put forward a proposal to guard against. And he said that delays by 
the bank in dealing with the matter were designed to force E into borrowing at higher rates 
elsewhere. So he asked that an ombudsman review the matter, and the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly similar 
reasons. Ill explain why. I should point out that in doing so, I wont address each and every 
point that Mr K has raised over the course of his correspondence with us and the bank, 
which I hope he wont see as discourteous. Rather, Ill focus on the matters that I consider 
most relevant to how Ive reached my decision.
Under the rules of the CBIL Scheme, lenders were entitled  and expected  to assess the 
viability of the lending proposition. Applications were still subject to affordability and 
creditworthiness assessments in a similar way to conventional loans, with lenders retaining 
the discretion to consider requests in line with their usual underwriting policies. And while 
lenders could disregard concerns over an applicants short-to-medium term performance, 
this wasnt something that lenders were obliged to do altogether (rather, allowance was 
made for the uncertainty and impact of the coronavirus pandemic).
Clydesdale declined Es application on the basis that it didnt think E would be able to afford 
the monthly repayments that would be due on the proposed loan. The bank has shared its 
calculations and projections with us, which show that  in line with how it typically assesses 
the affordability of a loan for the borrower  it thought E would be left with a monthly shortfall 
of £6,000 once it was required to begin the repayments. I think that was a decision it was 
entitled to make and having reviewed the information on which it was based, I think it was 
reasonable. In addition to the calculated shortfall, the bank noted E had made losses in 
2017, 2018 and 2019.
I understand from what Mr K has said that he believes Clydesdales decision was based on 
a total shortfall of only £6,000 over the loan term  hence he proposed lodging £6,000 
upfront with the bank to ease its concerns over this. But the banks assessment showed a 
monthly deficit of £6,000  i.e. a shortfall of £6,000 each month. Clydesdale didnt properly respond to Mr Ks suggestion, but I think it is clear that this was never going to be sufficient 
to counterbalance the forecasted deficit. 
Clydesdale set out the rationale for its decision to decline Es application in some detail to 
Mr K within their email exchanges. I wont repeat all those reasons here as, ultimately, I think 
the legitimate affordability concerns alone were sufficient grounds for the bank to decline the 
application. I know Mr K doesnt think the banks review, or ours, properly considers the 
overall performance of E over the years. But I think the bank has explained and evidenced 
why it deemed the proposed loan unaffordable for E and I dont think the points hes made 
about historic performance outweigh this.
Ive also considered what Mr K has said about the way Clydesdale handled the application. I 
dont think there were any unreasonable delays initially  the email exchanges between the 
bank and Mr K evidence that the application was being progressed, with requests for further 
information and then further assessment in light of what was received. There was an 
unreasonable delay between 10 December and 7 January, during which time there was little 
meaningful action on the banks part and which required Mr K to chase matters up. 
Clydesdale has acknowledged this and apologised, and I dont think any further action is 
required. 
Mr K also told us that Clydesdale referred E to private lenders  as recommended by the 
business development manager  for which the company would be liable to pay high rates of 
interest on any borrowing it obtained. Ive seen that Clydesdale offered to refer E to 
alternative financial platforms and see nothing unusual or unfair in that. It would still be up to 
E to decide whether or not it wished to enter into agreements on whatever terms were 
proposed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman