DRN-3366699
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society declined to make a refund after a failed 
ATM transaction.
What happened
Mr R made two withdrawals from an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) each for £250. After 
counting the money, Mr R believes the second withdrawal was only £230, missing £20.
Mr R, with the assistance of his representative, asked Nationwide to refund the missing £20, 
commenting that the notes from the second withdrawal were in an untidy bundle. Nationwide 
didnt own the ATM and asked the operator of it to check if the withdrawal was successful.
The operator of the ATM, who Ill refer to as J, replied to Nationwide and confirmed the 
withdrawal was successful and the machine was operating properly. Nationwide were also 
able to confirm that the ATM balanced (that no funds were unaccounted for). Nationwide 
declined to refund Mr R because the evidence they received showed the withdrawal was 
successful.
Mr R complained to Nationwide and when it was relooked into, Nationwide didnt change 
their position. Mr R was unhappy and brough his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who 
obtained evidence from both parties before writing her outcome. 
Mr Rs representative added that Mr R felt as though he was being called a liar. Our 
investigator discussed the situation with Mr Rs rep and it was speculated that because the 
notes were in an untidy condition when they came out of the machine, its possible a £20 
note was left in it and the next user of the ATM may have taken it.
Mr Rs complaint wasnt upheld because the evidence from J indicated the ATM successfully 
dispensed the full amount requested (£250). Mr R asked for a further review of it, which has 
now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide had to rely on the evidence they received from J, which is usual where the ATM 
isnt owned by the account holders bank. So, Ive examined the evidence J sent to 
Nationwide, which shows two successful withdrawals for £250 each. The use of the ATM by 
other users both before and after these transactions show they were also successful. There 
were no reports of the ATM breaking down or having problems when Mr R withdrew his 
funds. I understand Mr Rs representative was told by J that the ATM had had problems  
but there was no additional detail given. 
Ive thought about this comment from the branch about the ATMs performance and the 
reports Nationwide received, which seem to be at odds with each other. ATMs do break 
down for various reasons but whats relevant here is how it was operating when Mr R 
withdrew his funds and the evidence shows it dispensed the cash properly. Whilst I 
appreciate what a branch teller told Mr Rs representative; I dont think the comment is 
backed up by the evidence of what was happening at the time when Mr R withdrew his 
money. Its possible the ATM had broken down previously but the information Ive been able 
to examine shows it was working when Mr R used it. I dont think the missing £20 was as a 
result of a broken ATM.
The evidence produced indicates the withdrawals were successful on both occasions and Mr 
Rs representative later thought one of the notes may have been dispensed but not taken by 
Mr R, because of the way they came out of the machine. Thats entirely possible, although I 
wont be able to say precisely what happened to it. The issue here is whether it was 
dispensed and whether Nationwide can hold Mr R responsible for it. 
If the funds hadnt been dispensed Id expect to see that the machine had recorded this in its 
audit logs, or the additional funds had been found in its purge bin ( an area of the machine 
that collects damaged or problem notes). None of these things were recorded, so I think on 
balance the ATM dispensed the funds. 
I realise Mr R thought that he was being accused of being a liar, but thats not the case here. 
He genuinely believed the ATM hadnt given him the money he requested, which is why he 
asked Nationwide for a refund. The evidence shows it was likely dispensed and was 
probably collected by another ATM user. So, I hope Mr R can take some comfort in the fact 
that his complaint has been independently investigated. But, from the evidence Ive 
examined, I think it was fair and reasonable for Nationwide to hold Mr R liable for the 
withdrawal because the evidence shows it was more likely than not that the full amount was 
dispensed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman