DRN-2746766
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handing of a claim made under 
the building warranty.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T hold a building warranty with Amtrust for their two properties. 
After experiencing problems with the roofs, they made a claim under the 
warranty.
The claim was initially dealt with under the conciliation service. However, on 15 May 
2019, Amtrust took over the claim.
Mr and Mrs T have complained that Amtrust havent completed the remedial works. 
They think Amtrust failed to properly manage and oversee the repairs that took place, 
and also caused delays in starting the work.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Amtrust had 
been progressing the claim throughout the relevant period, and didnt think it had caused 
unavoidable delays.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 March 2021. Heres what I said:
Delays
Although Amtrust took over the claim on 15 May 2019, it took several months before 
remedial work began. However, I see that during that period, there were site visits, 
reports, and a schedule of work was put together. Mr and Mrs T had a number of 
queries about the proposed schedule of work. This was then later amended to take into 
account Mr and Mrs Ts comments.
Overall, whilst I can appreciate Mr and Mrs Ts concerns about the length of time taken 
for the repairs to start, Im minded to agree with our investigator that Amtrust was 
progressing the matter through the relevant period and didnt cause any unavoidable 
delays.
Remedial work
Mr and Mrs T raised concerns with Amtrust about the remedial works that had been done 
in late 2019.
In January 2020, Amtrust said it would attend the properties to review the fixings of the 
tiles and measure the drape. It would then provide a summary of its findings, together 
with any proposals.
The inspection took place on 29 January 2020. Amtrust accepted that the underlay drape 
to both properties was excessive, and that incompatible tiles had been used to replace 
damaged tiles. It said the remedial specification required every tile to be fixed, but this 
hadnt happened. Also, a row of tiles to one property was laid to a different pitch. Finally, it 
said there was incomplete pointing to the eaves brickwork.
Amtrust confirmed that it would arrange a programme for the roofs to be stripped and 
replaced. In other words, it would be arranging for the work to be done again. It was 
agreed between the parties that the work would be deferred until the weather improved.
Between January 2020 and March 2020, further discussions took place, and Amtrust 
suggested three proposals in early March 2020 to put matters right. One of those wasnt 
supported by Mr and Mrs Ts representative. Unfortunately, matters were then delayed 
as a result of the national lockdown that was in place due to Covid-19. I understand that 
Amtrust has since put forward a new proposed scope of works to put right the issues.
Although Mr and Mrs T werent living at either of the properties during the remedial works, 
its apparent theyve spent a great deal of time corresponding with Amtrust and its 
representatives on the matter. Consequently, I think theyve been caused unnecessary 
worry and inconvenience as a result of the poor workmanship, which has meant the 
repairs need to be done again and has led to further delays. I intend to require Amtrust to 
pay Mr and Mrs T £500 compensation to recognise this.
I asked both parties to provide any further comments they wished to make before I issued 
a final decision.
Mr and Mrs T responded to say they had nothing further to add. 
Amtrust responded to say it accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, as neither party has provided any further comments for me to consider, Im 
satisfied my provisional findings should remain, and for the same reasons.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Amtrust Europe 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs T £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and 
Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman