DRN-2160827
The complaint
Mr A complains that Ageas Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr A had a motor insurance policy under which Ageas was responsible for dealing with 
claims. Where I refer to Ageas, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Ageas 
responsible for their actions.
In January 2020, Mr As car and a third partys vehicle were involved in an accident. Both 
were damaged.
Mr A later complained that  without consulting him  Ageas had decided to settle the third 
partys claim.
Ageas wrote a final response dated 14 July 2020. Mr A brought his complaint to us in early 
August 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
Ageas had acted unfairly.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Ageas made decisions made without consulting him.
Ageas went from defending, to 50/50, to accepting liability. 
Ageas had made an offer for him to go to court and then withdrew it, which was unfair.
If Ageas had consulted with him before accepting liability, he could have re-explained 
the accident and discussed further evidence points that may have reinforced his 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common practice for an insurer to treat a claim as a fault claim unless and until that 
insurer recovers its outlay in full from a third party. There may be many reasons why an 
insurer is unable to recover its outlay. So a policyholder may have a fault claim against him 
without having done anything wrong.
If an insurer treats liability as being split 50/50 then it will only recover 50% of its outlay.
Most insurance policies allow an insurer to decide how to deal with a claim involving a third 
party. Mr As policy with Ageas included the following term:
In dealing with any claim under the terms of this policy, your insurer may:
- Carry out the defence or settlement of any claim and choose the solicitor who will 
act for you in any legal action.
The effect of that term is that  on the question of liability for a claim involving a third party - 
Ageass view will prevail over Mr As. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service will consider whether an insurer has applied such a term 
fairly. Unlike a court, we dont hear evidence from all parties and decide the extent to which 
any of them is responsible for causing injury or damage.
Mr A reported that he had been parked in a parking bay on the side of the road when a 
passenger opened the rear right door slightly and the third party hit that door.
There was no evidence from independent bystander witnesses. And there was no police 
report of the accident. Ageas considered some photographs taken after the event.
Ageas settled Mr As claim for his damaged car. At first Ageas sought to recover that outlay 
from the third partys insurer. Thats what Mr A wanted. Ageas checked that Mr A was willing 
to attend court. 
I dont consider that  by asserting his claim and checking his willingness to go to court  
Ageas promised that it would pursue Mr As claim in court or that it would be successful. 
I consider that Ageas was entitled to change its stance in the light of the response from the 
third partys insurer and in the light of any advice Ageas received from its solicitors.
Later Ageas offered the third partys insurer a 50/50 settlement. The third partys insurer 
rejected that offer.
I can understand that Mr A felt Ageas shouldve consulted him before making that offer. But 
 keeping in mind the policy term quoted  I cant say Ageas treated Mr A unfairly by 
negotiating without first consulting him. 
From the file, Im satisfied that Ageas gave Mr A reasonable opportunities to make his points 
about the accident  and he did so. 
Ageas instructed solicitors. The third partys insurer continued to assert that Mr A was liable.
In July 2020, Ageas solicitors assessed the prospects of success if the claim went to court. 
The solicitors said the prospects were poor and advised Ageas to settle the third partys 
claim. So Ageas decided to do so. And it wrote a letter dated 9 July 2020 to let Mr A know.
Again,  keeping in mind the policy term quoted  I cant say Ageas treated Mr A unfairly by 
doing this without first consulting him.
Ageas recorded a fault claim against Mr A. Thats likely to cost Mr A money in future 
insurance premiums. However, a 50/50 settlement wouldve had a very similar effect.
Moreover, Ageas had instructed a solicitor to assess liability  and relied on the solicitors 
advice. So I dont find that Ageas treated Mr A unfairly. And I dont find it far and reasonable 
to direct Ageas to do anything further in response to this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman