DRN-3291542
The complaint
Mrs and Mr W complain that, in 2009, Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold 
them a packaged bank account (PBA). 
What happened
Mrs and Mr W had had a bank account with Bank of Scotland since 2002. It was at first a 
fee-free account. In 2009 the account was changed to an Ultimate Reward Current Account 
(URCA). The account at the time cost £10 each month, and came with a package of 
benefits, which included worldwide family multi-trip travel insurance, RAC breakdown cover, 
mobile phone insurance, home emergency cover, card protection, and travel accident cover. 
With the URCA there was also no interest on the first £300 of an overdraft.  
Mrs and Mr W say they were told they could only have an overdraft if they took the fee-
paying URCA. They say they have been unhappy about this ever since. However, since 
recently changing to a fee-free account, theyve discovered that the bank has still allowed 
them a large overdraft. They say they would have changed the account earlier if theyd know 
they could keep their overdraft. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mrs and Mr W didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
I must decide whats most likely to have happened, based on the evidence available. And, 
having done that, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant be sure, but I do think its quite likely that Mrs and Mr W havent remembered all 
the details fully  which isnt surprising given how long ago this happened. Mrs and Mr W 
say they were told in 2002 that they could only have an overdraft if they took the URCA. 
But, in fact, they actually did have a fee-free account from 2002, and Ive seen evidence 
that they had reasonably large overdrafts whilst using this fee-free account. It was only in 
2009 that they switched to the URCA and started paying a fee for that. 
So I think its unlikely Bank of Scotland led Mrs and Mr W to believe they had to take the 
URCA to get an overdraft. 
There were other benefits that might have attracted Mrs and Mr W  although again, I 
cant be sure about what motivated them. But they did intend to travel abroad, and they 
also ran a car, making use of the breakdown cover on at least one occasion; and they 
would have gained a small reduction in some of their overdraft interest too. There may 
also have been other parts of the package that could have been useful to them. 
Mrs and Mr W have said they werent happy that they had to pay more to upgrade the 
breakdown cover to a level they would find useful; and also that were told they would 
have to pay an extra premium, if Mr W wanted  his medical condition covered for travel 
insurance. But the decision, on whether the overall package was worth the money, was 
for Mrs and Mr W to make. Bank of Scotland just needed to give them information so they 
could to make that decision. 
I cant be sure how well Bank of Scotland explained the features of the URCA, but its 
likely it would have at least explained the monthly cost and the main benefits, if only to 
convince Mrs and Mr W that it was worth taking. I think its unlikely fuller information would 
have changed whether Mrs and Mr W took the URCA. 
It wouldnt be fair for me to decide that Bank of Scotland misled Mrs and Mr W, unless 
there was reasonable evidence of it  it wouldnt usually be fair to require someone to 
prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was so many years ago. And, 
overall, I dont have enough evidence to say the PBA was mis-sold.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman