DRN-2937371
The complaint
 A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs delay 
processing its application for a Bounce Back Loan and responding to its Data Subject 
Access Request. 
In bringing this complaint, T is represented by one of its directors who I refer to as Mr B. 
  
What happened
 T applied to Barclays for a £20,000 Bounce Back Loan in May 2020. An automated 
message was generated advising T that Barclays would be in contact. Nobody contacted T, 
so, later in the month, it submitted another application. 
Barclays sent it another automated message saying that it needed to verify some information 
before it could process the application and that the company should call the bank to move 
things forward. Mr B said he made several unsuccessful attempts to contact Barclays. He 
calculated that he spent 14 hours, calling and emailing the bank to find out how Ts 
application was progressing. 
Ts loan was completed in July 2020 but Mr B believed the time taken was too long. He 
argued that Barclays should pay T for the 14 hours that he spent dealing with its Bounce 
Back Loan application. So, on Ts behalf Mr B submitted an invoice to Barclays for 
£2,164.80, which he said was based on the £895.00 daily rate T charges in consultancy 
fees. 
In August 2020 Mr B submitted a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) to Barclays and 
received the banks response in October 2020. 
When Mr B complained about delays on the banks part, Barclays agreed that there were 
delays dealing with Ts application and apologised for any inconvenience this might have 
caused, including the longer waiting times Mr B experienced when he tried calling them. 
They said, however, that the delays were caused by the requirement to complete certain 
regulatory checks on Ts business before they could continue with its application. They also 
said the demand they experienced for Bounce Back Loans generally, coupled with the 
impact of the pandemic on the resources available to deal with all the applications, had 
exacerbated the delays. But Barclays didnt think theyd made any errors and so they didnt 
believe that they should pay the invoice received from T. 
In relation to the DSAR, Barclays accepted they delayed providing the information Mr B 
requested and offered to pay £100 in compensation. 
T didnt think Barclays had done enough to put things right and referred its complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator upheld Ts complaint in part. In relation to the delays in processing its 
Bounce Back Loan application, she didnt think there were set timescales for such 
processing, but nonetheless said there was an expectation this would happen in days. So, 
she believed it was reasonable for T to expect that its application would be progressed more 
quickly than the time Barclays took to do so. And she didnt think the bank had provided 
clear communication regarding the anticipated timeframe for processing Ts application 
either. She noted Mr B had been unable to speak to anyone at Barclays until June 2020  
approximately a month after submitting Ts application. 
Overall the investigator concluded Barclays actions caused T avoidable inconvenience, for 
which she recommended they pay £200 compensation to T. 
In relation to the DSAR request, however, the investigator believed the delay happened 
because there was confusion regarding the information Mr B was asking for. But she 
believed the £100 offered by Barclays for their delay was fair and reasonable. 
Barclays accepted the investigators conclusions. However, T did not and has asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. 
On Ts behalf, Mr B says he doesnt think the recommended compensation goes far enough. 
He doesnt believe that it would act as sufficient deterrent against the delivery of poor service 
by Barclays. He thinks a reasonable settlement would be to require Barclays to pay T a £500 
goodwill payment as well settling its £2,164.20 invoice in full. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions, for broadly the same reasons. 
Ill explain why.
The BBL application 
Barclays accept there were delays processing Ts Bounce Back Loan application. As noted 
above, theyve said this resulted from their obligation to carry out certain regulatory checks 
against the background not only of the huge demand for such loans but also the impact of 
the pandemic on their resources.  
I acknowledge Barclays would have faced an unprecedented level of demand for Bounce 
Back Loans. And at the time, I believe they would have faced significant challenges arising 
from the pandemic.
But I agree with the investigator that T was entitled to expect its application to be assessed 
quickly, as envisaged under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. I think the delay of 
approximately two months  between May and July 2020 to get this done was unreasonable. 
During that time, Mr B made a further application and had to contact the bank a number of 
times by phone and emails to chase things up. Mr B did manage to speak to Barclays on 11, 
19 and 23 June 2020, but this was approximately one month after T submitted its first 
application. And Barclays notes of the calls they received indicate they were unable to give 
Mr B any firm timescale as to when Ts application would be progressed. 
I also note that email exchanges between Barclays and Mr B between 25 and 29 June 2020 
were similarly non-committal regarding timescale for the completion of Ts application, 
although Barclays apologised and assured Mr B they were looking into the issues 
surrounding their delay.  
So, in addition to the delay which Barclays have accepted, Im also satisfied their 
communication with Mr B wasnt as effective as it could have been, which couldve alleviated 
some of the need for Mr B to chase things up.I am satisfied that after the initial delay of a month, by June 2020 there was a reasonable 
level of communication between Mr B and Barclays even though they were unable to say for 
sure how long Ts application would take to complete. That was of course the information 
Mr B needed most, so its understandable he would have been frustrated by the absence of 
any firm timeframe which led to further calls and emails. So, like the investigator, Im 
satisfied T was inconvenienced by Barclays delay and I agree T should be appropriately 
compensated. 
Ts invoice to Barclays is aimed at claiming for the time Mr B spent in phone calls and emails 
to Barclays. So, theres no suggestion T has suffered financial loss because of Barclays 
delay. Its worth noting this is Ts complaint. And in such instances, we wouldnt generally 
award compensation based either on its or its directors hourly consultancy rate. Rather we 
look at the overall impact the error had on the complainant. 
Having done so I think the £200 the investigator recommended is fair compensation in the 
circumstances. 
I know Mr B doesnt think thats sufficient, and that in order to have a deterrent effect not 
only should Barclays pay the £2,164.20 T is claiming but also £500 as a goodwill gesture. 
But our role isnt to fine or punish the business we cover and our awards are not intended 
make a financial business change the way it acts. We look at the individual circumstances of 
the complaint and where we find that the financial business has failed its customer in some 
way, we award compensation for the impact of that failure. I believe £200 fairly does that in 
Ts case. 
DSAR request
It seems there may have been confusion regarding whether the request had been actioned, 
whether it was from T -  the limited company which wasnt subject to DSAR - or from Mr B 
personally. All that being said, here too Barclays have accepted they delayed responding to 
the request. 
I accept this would have caused further inconvenience. However, I also think the £100 
offered by Barclays is fair and reasonable
Putting things right
 Based on everything Ive said above I find that overall the £300 offered by Barclays is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
 My final decision is I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to pay T £300 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman