DRN-3126030
The complaint
Mrs G complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) reduced the limits on her credit card 
accounts without informing her and didnt properly apply the promotional interest rate offers 
she was entitled to. 
What happened
Mrs G has two credit card accounts with Barclays and says Barclays reduced the limits 
substantially after she had reduced the borrowing on these cards, without informing her. Mrs 
G says this has caused her financial problems and she wouldnt have made these large 
reductions if she had known that Barclays were going to take this course of action. 
Additionally, Mrs G says Barclays havent given her the promotional interest rate she was 
approved for on both cards, which she says was for 36 months and not the 18 months that 
she received. Mrs G feels Barclays have acted unfairly.
Barclays says they are entitled to reduce the credit limits available to its customers under the 
terms and conditions of the credit card accounts. As far as the promotional offers were 
concerned, Barclays says they did apply the correct balance transfer interest rate offers to 
both credit card accounts and have done nothing wrong here. 
Mrs G wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Barclays had written to confirm the credit card limits had been reduced and 
in any event if those letters hadnt been received by Mrs G, under the terms of the credit 
card agreement they had no obligation to put this in writing. The investigator says Mrs G 
should have been aware of the limit reductions from her credit card statements. The 
investigator says he checked the balance transfer promotional offers, and these were 
correctly applied to both credit card accounts.
Mrs G didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I understand Mrs G has raised a further complaint regarding the appropriateness of the 
credit limits made available to her, but this is being considered by this service as a separate 
complaint, so I will not be commenting on that here. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mrs G to discover the limits on her credit 
card accounts had been reduced, without as she says, being informed first and on top of 
that, she didnt receive the full extent of the promotional interest rate offers, on those credit 
card accounts. 
When looking at this complaint, I will consider if Barclays acted unreasonably, when they 
reduced the credit limits on Mrs Gs credit card accounts, and if they failed to provide the 
correct promotional interest rate term on them.
Mrs Gs complaint centres around two main issues, firstly Barclays reduced her credit card 
limits without informing her, after she had reduced the borrowing on both credit card 
accounts, and secondly she didnt receive the full benefit of the interest free balance transfer 
offer she applied for. 
Mrs G says she never received any correspondence from Barclays regarding the reduction 
in the credit limits available on her credit card accounts.
The first thing to say here is under the terms and conditions of Mrs Gs credit card accounts, 
under  Managing your credit limit, it states: If we reduce your credit limit based on an 
assessment of risk or your ability to repay, we have the right to not give you any notice 
beforehand if we think this would not be appropriate.
I am satisfied that any notice period here would be minimal, if at all, and I say this because 
Barclays would wish to act as soon as possible to reduce the credit available, if they deemed 
it necessary. This is because, its possible the cardholder may utilise the credit limit available 
over any such notice period, which would potentially prevent Barclays from carrying out the 
reduction they felt was necessary. 
Barclays have told this service they issued a letter to Mrs G a few days prior to the limits 
being reduced and provided a copy of an example letter, they send in these circumstances. 
While I cant say with any certainty it was sent or Mrs G received it, I am satisfied in all 
probability it would have been issued in line with Barclays process. That said, as the 
investigator has explained, Barclays had no obligation to send it in any event, although Mrs 
G would have been made aware of the credit limit reductions, from the monthly credit card 
statements she received.
I can see Mrs G has suggested the limits were reduced because they were incorrectly 
applied initially. I understand the point Mrs G makes but Barclays in their final response, 
where they refer to one of her credit card accounts, say this isnt the reason behind the 
reduction in her credit card limits and dont offer a full explanation of why the limits were 
reduced. While Mrs G may not agree, I am satisfied Barclays dont need to provide a reason 
for withdrawing or reducing credit limits available to their customers, thats a business 
decision for them to take, based on their risk appetite. 
So, with that in mind I cant say Barclays have done anything wrong when they reduced the 
credit limits available on Mrs Gs credit card accounts when they did.
Mrs G also believes she hasnt received the full promotional balance transfer interest rate 
offer on her credit card accounts. From the information I have seen Mrs G had two 
promotional balance transfer offers at 0% interest, one applied for in August 2016 (card 1) 
and the second in February 2017 (card 2). 
I can see for card 1, Mrs G applied for a 36 month offer on that card, but its worth saying 
that Barclays by making that offer arent at that point guaranteeing its approval, and what 
happened here, from the information I have seen, is a counter offer was made by Barclays 
for an 18 month offer instead. This application was made online and from the process that 
Barclays adopts and confirmed to this service, the only way the application could have 
proceeded would have been for Mrs G to have ticked a box to accept it, otherwise the application wouldnt have gone ahead to be approved.  
So, while Mrs G may not agree, I am on balance, satisfied in all likelihood she would have 
needed to accept this offer before the promotional offer was put in place. Its also worth 
saying although theres no evidence to confirm the details of the offer applied to her credit 
card account was sent, Mrs G would have received regular online statements which 
confirmed the offer was agreed for 18 months and not 36 months as she believed. This 
service has also been provided with screen shots from Barclays confirming that messages 
were regularly sent to her about the availability of her online statements, so I cant say she 
wouldnt have been aware of this. The statements I have seen for card 1 show the 18 
months interest free promotional offer for balance transfers, was correctly applied and I cant 
say Barclays have made a mistake here. 
As far as card 2 is concerned Mrs G applied for and was accepted for a 37-month, interest 
free balance transfer promotional offer. This offer is confirmed again from the credit card 
account statements I have seen, and it is what Mrs G has told this service she applied for, so 
Barclays have carried out her instructions correctly. 
While Mrs G will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman