DRN-3496968
The complaint
Mr B complains that Legal & General (Portfolio Management Services) Limited (L&G) poorly 
managed his pension investments and failed to advise him of substantial losses that had 
been suffered shortly before the retirement age of his workplace pension. He would like 
compensation for the losses incurred. 
What happened
Mr B was a member of his former employers workplace pension plan with L&G. As his 
retirement age approached, he says he checked the valuation of his plan with L&G in June 
2020. But when he checked the valuation again in March 2021, he says he was shocked to 
learn it had fallen by around £85,000 despite the recovery of the stock markets over the 
previous few months. Mr B emailed L&G to complain about the poor fund performance and 
lack of communication about it. He said hed never switched investment funds himself and 
trusted L&G to look after his money.
L&G provided information about the funds performance. But it said it couldnt provide 
members with updates about falls in fund values in case this was interpretated as giving 
advice, which it couldnt provide. Mr B said L&G hadnt answered his queries and he asked 
specific questions. L&G responded on 18 March 2021 rejecting Mr Bs complaint. In 
summary the questions and answers were:
1. L&G hadnt explained why the fund had dropped so significantly.
L&G said the Covid pandemic had resulted in considerable movements in markets. It 
said the main investment Mr B held  the Over 15 Year UK Gilts fund had performed 
well over three years but during 2021 as investment conditions had changed it had 
fallen by around 10% in the last six months. It said the fund was used in the Lifestyle 
investment profile to help de-risk your portfolio and broadly match an annuity 
purchase at retirement.
2. His fund had been with L&G due to his employer choosing it.
L&G said it managed the scheme and customers were generally enrolled by their 
employer as Mr B had suggested, but that Mr B could transfer his pension pot if he 
wished.
3. Hed trusted and expected L&G to look after his money, but it had not.
L&G said it was satisfied that funds had been managed in line with their objectives 
and performed in line with fluctuations in the market for this type of investment, so it 
wouldnt be appropriate to provide you with recompense.
4. He didnt know how hed ended up in the funds and assumed it was a default 
situation chosen by L&G.
L&G said Mr B was invested in a Multi Asset Lifestyle profile where, as retirement 
age approached the pension pot would be gradually moved into funds that are 
considered less risky. But that didnt mean there was no risk. It said valuation 
statements sent to Mr B advised he should regularly review the investment strategy 
to ensure its still suitable for you, and he could have switched funds at any time 
and could still do so. It said the investment profile would have been communicated 
with you when you first joined the plan and your statements reconfirm this.
5. L&G failed in its duty to look after his funds through failing to notify me of the 
dramatic fall.
It said its funds fluctuate on a daily basis and it wasnt feasible to contact customers 
each time there was a decrease in value. It said pensions were long term 
investments and communicating short term fluctuations might make people make 
poor decisions. It said it didnt agree that it had failed to look after his funds and the 
fluctuation was purely due to the current volatility in the UK Gilts market.
6. He understood that historically hed been invested in three funds and L&G had 
arbitrarily decided to move him into two funds, one being cash and the other had 
fallen through the floor, without advising him.
L&G said, as noted in 1 and 4 above Mr B had been invested in a Lifestyle profile 
and if he hadnt wanted this he could have switched to different funds and this was 
communicated to him.
7. He said he failed to understand L&Gs role in managing the pension other than in 
sending out the annual statement.
L&G provided a copy of the pension plan member booklet, which gives information 
on the pension and details of L&Gs role and responsibilities. 
Mr B raised some queries with his former employer and referred his complaint to our service. 
He said he understood the impact of Covid on investment markets, but that the fund had 
performed terribly. That hed never been asked about moving funds and wanted to be in a 
secure low risk investment and hadnt been notified of the huge drop in value. He said 
including advice costs to transfer his pension his losses were around £106,000 through 
L&Gs mismanagement and potential negligence. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint, but he didnt uphold it. 
He said Mr B had been invested in the 10-year Lifestyle profile by his former employer, 
which worked by automatically moving his pension pot into investments deemed to be less 
risky as the retirement age approached. He said the objective was to reduce risk but that the 
process doesnt eliminate risk entirely and hadnt worked as effectively as would be hoped in 
Mr Bs case. He said Gilts were generally considered a low risk investment and L&Gs Gilt 
fund had performed in line with the benchmark for similar investments and it wasnt 
appropriate to compare the performance with equity type investments as Mr B had done. 
He said the transfer of investments over ten years had been completed in line with the 
Lifestyle strategy. So, L&G hadnt done anything wrong and it wasnt possible to use 
hindsight to look at the many investment decisions made. He said L&G operated under a 
regulated environment with independent scrutiny and there was no evidence of negligence in 
the management of the fund. He said the value of an investment could fluctuate greatly over 
a short period and there was no requirement for L&G to notify Mr B if this happened, as it 
was his responsibility to monitor the performance of the investment. Mr B said his financial adviser said he should pursue his complaint further as his retirement 
savings were:
redirected to a fund that should have protected them This did not happen 
therefore L&G have clearly failed in their management of my pension savings and the 
action was flawed.
  
As Mr B doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
Pensions are longer term investments and what happened was very unfortunate timing for 
Mr B. But I dont think L&G has made errors here. I think it operated the default Lifestyle 
investment strategy in place for Mr Bs plan in the correct manner and it was his 
responsibility to ensure this was appropriate for him. 
Mr B was automatically enrolled in his employers workplace pension plan with L&G. To 
comply with the legislation in place, it is necessary for a default investment fund option to be 
nominated, often with the involvement of the employer. The employee can then choose to 
opt-out of this default and select their own investment funds. Information is usually set out 
about this in the employer communications issued before the employee is automatically 
enrolled in the scheme. And the pension provider usually provides a welcome pack or a link 
to one with further information once the employee has been auto enrolled. 
Lifestyle profiles are often used as the default investment as they seek to manage 
investment risks as someones retirement age approaches. By gradually moving investments 
out of equity type assets into cash and fixed interest assets like Gilts over a number of years. 
These investments, generally, exhibit lower volatility than equity assets over the long term. 
However, these strategies dont eliminate risk and in certain situations fixed interest 
investments can fall in value sharply, as was unfortunately the case here. 
Its important to note that L&G werent providing Mr B with advice about his arrangements.  
And I think the information set out in the Members Booklet for the pension plan is clear on 
what L&Gs role is and how the arrangement works. Under the section dealing with 
investments it states:
You can find details of all your investment choices on your plan website or by 
logging on to . You can change your investment choices at any time in Manage 
Your Account or by calling us.
You can choose a maximum of 50 funds at any one time or one lifestyle profile.
We are not responsible for the choices and actions taken by you, your employer, or 
any financial adviser appointed by you, in selecting or monitoring your individual fund 
choices.
And:
For those joining by automatic enrolmentWhen you are enrolled we will automatically invest your contributions into the default 
investment fund option of your plan. You will be told what that is in your enrolment 
communications.
Mr B was invested in the nominated default fund when he was automatically enrolled into the 
pension. This was the Multi Asset/Over 15 Gilts Fund 10 Year Lifestyle Profile (the profile). 
This gradually switches from investing 100% in the Multi Asset fund when more than ten 
years away from the selected retirement date, into an increasing proportion of fixed interest 
and cash investments. So, the operation of this profile would coincide with Mr Bs comment 
about being initially invested in three funds and then just two. But L&G didnt arbitrarily make 
this change, it was, correctly, following the strategy set out for the profile.
L&G have advised that the retirement date for Mr Bs plan was set to 8 November 2020. And 
under the profile the investment had been gradually switched to around 75% in the Over 15 
Year Gilts fund and 25% in the Cash fund by then. I havent seen any evidence that L&G 
didnt follow the investment strategy set out for the profile. The underlying funds themselves 
appear to have achieved similar returns to the appropriate benchmark indices, indicating that 
they didnt perform any worse than comparable funds. 
And I think Mr B was provided with sufficient access to information about where his 
investments were held. Annual statements were provided and valuations were available at 
any time online. Which Mr B did check from time to time. L&G has also provided a copy of a 
letter to Mr B of 7 September 2020. This advises he was within eight weeks of the selected 
retirement date for his plan. It suggested he take financial advice or speak to the Pension 
Wise guidance service about his retirement options. It gave the value of his fund and 
advised it wasnt guaranteed and the current value could be checked online. It continued 
with a section headed:
If we dont hear from you
When your arrangement reaches your current retirement date well change it to a 
new date five years ahead and will manage the investment of your arrangement as 
follows:
If your arrangement is not invested in a lifestyle profile well continue to 
manage the investment of your arrangement in your current selected 
investment fund(s).
If your arrangement is invested in a lifestyle profile well continue to manage 
your arrangement in the same fund(s) they were invested in after the last 
automatic fund change before your current retirement date.
If you need more information or have any questions, please contact us.
Mr B didnt take his benefits at that time and doesnt appear to have provided L&G with 
alternative investment instructions. And unfortunately a sharp fall in Gilt prices occurred in 
January/February 2021. I asked L&G to provide a copy of the annual statements available to 
Mr B. The statement dated 23 February 2021 clearly shows that his pension was 73.36% 
invested in the Over 15 Year Gilts Index fund and 26.64% invested in the Cash fund. This is 
in line with the default investment fund strategy and the information provided to Mr B in 
advance of the original retirement date.
L&G wasnt responsible for advising Mr B about how his funds should be invested or tasked 
with monitoring them. It had correctly followed the predetermined fund switches called for by 
the profile in the run up to Mr Bs original retirement date. It was Mr Bs responsibility to 
check if this was appropriate for his requirements and could have been changed at any time. And the performance of the funds is comparable to the respective benchmarks, indicating 
there wasnt any mismanagement of the underlying funds. 
So, I dont think L&G has made any error and it hasnt treated Mr B unfairly, so I do not 
uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman