DRN-3439432
The complaint
Mr S, on behalf of himself and the estate of the late Mrs S, has complained that HSBC UK 
Bank Plc mis-sold them a business loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1990.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out the policy at the same time as arranging the loan. Although it was a 
joint loan, the policy was set up just to cover Mr S for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
It was a single premium policy, meaning that the premium amount was added to the loan at 
the start and attracted interest over the term of the loan.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr S and the estate of Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision based on the evidence I have seen and on what I consider is most likely to have 
happened.
HSBC no longer has any documentation from the time of the sale. Mr S has been 
disappointed that HSBC was unable to trace the loan account or the PPI policy. However, 
businesses are not required to keep records indefinitely. It is therefore not surprising or 
unusual that it has no records, particularly given that the loan account closed in 1991. 
However, I do appreciate that HSBC failed to register that Mr S had sent in copies of the 
loan agreement, which must have been frustrating for Mr S.
Mr S says that the PPI was set out as a condition of the borrowing.
Ive no doubt that Mr S has provided his genuine recollection of events. However, the sale 
was in 1990 and so it wouldnt be surprising if his memory has faded somewhat. HSBC 
advised Mr and Mrs S to take out the cover. So its possible that the adviser told them that it 
was a good idea for them to have the policy, rather than that they must have it. This is a 
subtle difference, which its possible Mr S has misremembered after all this time.
From what we know of HSBCs sales process at the time, the PPI would normally be 
presented as optional. Ive thought very carefully about what Mr S has said. However, on 
balance, Im not persuaded that his recollection is enough for me to conclude that HSBC 
departed from their usual sales process on this occasion. I find it just as likely that Mr and 
Mrs S decided to buy the PPI, knowing that they didnt have to, even if Mr S no longer 
remembers doing so.
As HSBC advised Mr and Mrs S to buy the PPI, it needed to ensure that it met their needs. 
And from what I know of their circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for Mr S.
Mr S was self-employed and therefore would not have received any employer sick pay if he 
was unable to work due to accident or sickness. Mr S has said that they had a lot of equity in 
their house at the time and that their parents would have helped out financially. However, it 
would have been difficult to re-mortgage the property at a time when Mr S wasnt working 
due to accident, sickness or unemployment. And the policy would have avoided the need to 
ask family to make the loan repayments for them. From what we know of the policy terms, it 
wouldnt have been any harder for Mr S to claim for unemployment than it would have been 
for an employed person. So it seems to me that Mr and Mrs S had a need for the policy and 
could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
HSBC also had to provide Mr and Mrs S with enough information for them to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the PPI was right for them.
Ive seen a copy of the loan agreement. The initial cost of the premium, the total interest and 
the monthly cost of the PPI were all set out. So I think that Mr and Mrs S would have known 
what theyd be paying for the policy.
Mr and Mrs S would have received only a limited refund of the PPI premium if the policy had 
been cancelled early. This can be an issue where a customer might pay the loan off early  
for example by taking out a replacement loan. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that this was 
likely at the time of sale. So that feature of the policy didnt make it unsuitable for Mr and Mrs 
S.
Its possible that HSBC didnt provided as much information about the PPI as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr S wasnt affected by any of those 
things. For example he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have been 
excluded under the policy terms. As I consider that Mr and Mrs S had an interest in the 
policy and decided to buy it, I doubt that further information would have caused them to 
change their minds. So they were no worse off as a result of anything HSBC may have done 
wrong. So there is nothing that HSBC needs to do to put things right. It follows that I do not 
uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr S and the estate of Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and the 
estate of Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman