DRN-4322254
The complaint
Mr S complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (British Gas) handling of his claim 
under his home emergency insurance policy. He also complains about the customer service 
received. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont go into detail but will 
summarise the key points. Mr S says, despite repeated blockages to his drain, British Gas 
initially refused to do a CCTV survey to find out what was causing the problem. Mr S says 
British Gas did then eventually agree to a CCTV survey and this highlighted problems with 
sections of the drainage pipeline. Mr S says British Gas refused to carry out repairs as they 
said the underlying cause was root damage along a shared section of the pipeline. So, Mr S 
complained about this and about missed appointments, complaint handlers lying to him and 
British Gas delay in sending him his personal data after he requested it. 
British Gas responded and explained, while there had been a number of visits to resolve a 
blocked drain, the terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy covers unblocking of drains to 
restore flow  and their engineers were able to do this during the visits. They said the CCTV 
survey found a roots issue on a shared section of the pipeline so it would need to be 
resolved by the water utilities company as it wouldnt be covered under Mr Ss policy. British 
Gas accepted there had been customer service issues which included a misunderstanding 
around a visit booked for April 2023 where Mr S believed British Gas contractors  who Ill 
refer to as company D  would be attending to repair a section of the pipeline. British Gas 
apologised for the customer service issues and confirmed theyd arranged to send a cheque 
for £225 as compensation. 
 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S. She thought British Gas decision not to repair 
the pipe was reasonable and their compensation payment of £225 for the customer services 
issues was fair. Mr S disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr S will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. I think its important to add, I wont be commenting on every event during 
the claim, instead I have taken a broad approach to the overall service provided. Ill also add, 
my decision focusses only on the events up to British Gas complaint response in June 2023. 
Multiple visits to deal with the drainage issue  
I understand Mr S is concerned that his drain was regularly blocking but British Gas 
continued to send engineers to unblock the drain but without fully resolving the underlying 
issue. He says when British Gas did eventually agree to a CCTV survey, this cleared a 
blockage being caused by roots and theyve had no blockages since  so Mr S feels British 
Gas shouldve carried out a CCTV survey much sooner. 
My starting point is Mr Ss home emergency policy booklet. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and, under a section headed Drains and sub-heading Whats covered it says, 
Unblocking drains to restore flow and Repairing drains where we deem the drain to be 
unserviceable to restore flow. 
British Gas have provided job sheets from their engineer visits, and this shows an engineer 
arrived on site for a blocked sink and the problem was in the down pipe. The note says the 
engineer restored the flow and would recommend CCTV survey. There was a further 
blockage, and the job sheet shows an engineer attended and cleared the blockage and 
restored the water flow. There was a further visit just over a month later and the job sheet 
shows the engineer attended on site for a blocked sink. The job sheet says they cleared the 
blockage and the engineer notes, Request CCTV. Case notes provided by British Gas 
show they spoke with company D and they explained that, during the recent visit, the drain 
was serviceable and the water flow was restored. The notes say, although the blockage is a 
recurring issue, a CCTV survey is only authorised in circumstances where the drain isnt 
serviceable. 
The case notes say another emergency job was booked and company D explained they will 
inspect the drain but only a drains engineer can authorise a CCTV survey. The job sheet 
from this visit shows the engineer attended and found a blockage which they cleared, and 
they were able to restore the water flow. The note says, Recommend CCTV survey as it is a 
recurring problem. A CCTV survey was then booked and took place around two weeks 
later. 
Its clear there have been several visits but the job sheets show the engineers were able to 
clear the blockage and restore flow. I acknowledge it was frustrating for Mr S when the 
problem was recurring and I do acknowledge why he wanted a more permanent solution to 
avoid the same issue  and why he feels a CCTV survey shouldve been carried out sooner 
and wouldve identified the root issue which was causing the blockage. I acknowledge it 
could be argued this step couldve been taken at the first visit, but that would be with the 
benefit of hindsight  and that isnt the test Im applying here when deciding on the service 
provided. Im looking at whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And in this case, as 
Ive said, British Gas did resolve the blockage and restore the flow in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. So, once this was done during each visit, I dont think it was 
necessarily unreasonable for British Gas to decline the CCTV survey or to carry out any 
further investigation into the blockage. In addition to this, I can see from the job sheets the 
engineers did start thinking more progressively about the underlying causes for the recurring 
problem and identified there might be a need to carry out a CCTV survey  which was then 
completed. So, taking this all into account, I cant say British Gas have acted unreasonably 
here.  
 
I can see British Gas say their engineers continued to take appropriate action to restore flow 
as the drain was serviceable. I can see Mr S queries British Gas definition of serviceable 
and I cant see the terms and conditions define this term. But the terms and conditions do 
say British Gas will repair drains where they deem the drain to be unserviceable to 
restore flow. So, given the context in which British Gas have referred to the term 
unserviceable, I think this suggests British Gas will consider repairs if they arent able to 
restore flow. In this case though, and as mentioned above, the engineers were able to 
restore flow so I cant say British Gas have acted unreasonably. Damage to pipeline 
A CCTV survey was carried out and the report comments on structural defects and says all 
inspected pipes were in an acceptable structural condition. Under the heading Service 
/operational condition it provides a description of different grades. A Grade 5 is described 
as Best practice suggests that this pipe is at a high risk of backing up or causing flooding. 
The report then comments on the service and operational condition of the drainage pipe and 
says, Roots, mass at joint, 90% cross-sectional area loss. Theres also photos showing 
where and how this is impacting the drainage pipe. The report says the roots blockage was 
removed.   
Case notes provided by British Gas show they discussed this issue with company D and 
there remains an issue with a large root mass on the shared drain  and company D 
explained to Mr S he would need to contact his water utility company to resolve this. The 
case notes show company D explained to British Gas the pipeline is cracked as a result of 
the root damage and this issue with the shared section of the pipeline isnt covered under 
the policy. Ive looked at the terms and conditions and, under a section which notes whats 
not covered, it says, Shared drains. Theres also a sketch diagram prepared by company 
D which shows the length of the shared pipeline, and when comparing this with the CCTV 
report, it shows the root mass issue is along this shared pipeline. So, taking into account the 
terms and conditions, I cant say British Gas are acting unreasonably in declining to repair a 
section of the shared pipeline. 
Customer service
Mr S has raised a number of issues which relate to the service he has received. I can see  
Mr S says British Gas delayed in responding to his request for his data. Looking through the 
information, I can see this has been provided to Mr S now but its clear Mr Ss original 
request wasnt passed to the relevant team dealing with data requests  so this led to a 
delay in Mr S receiving his data. British Gas also accept there was a missed appointment.  
I can also see British Gas communication wasnt as clear as it shouldve been when 
arranging a visit in April 2023. The information shows Mr S raised a concern which he feels 
could lead to a further blockage. The case notes show British Gas called Mr S and he asked 
for an appointment for a leaking waste pipe. Theres then an exchange of emails between Mr 
S and British Gas where its agreed an engineer will attend on 27 April. It appears company 
D then spoke with Mr S on the day and explained they wouldnt be attending as theyd 
already identified the issue was being caused by the large root mass and cracked pipe. 
While I cant say this decision was unreasonable for the reasons Ive mentioned above, its 
clear from the email exchanges Mr S was expecting company D to attend to repair the pipe. 
Leading up to the appointment, Mr S asks British Gas to confirm if company D will be digging 
up and repairing the drains as they already have the survey report, and theyll know what the 
situation is and how to repair it. 
British Gas reply, I will also advise them the camera report has already been done and we 
just need to attend and fix the issue. I think it was clear from Mr Ss email that he was 
expecting company D to repair the pipe and British Gas didnt at this point refer to the 
findings set out in the report or clarify that the pipe wont be repaired. I think British Gas 
email mismanaged Mr Ss expectations about what would happen during the visit. This was 
then later clarified by company D on the day so, while the impact on Mr S was over a short 
period of time, it still caused upset and frustration as Mr S was then led to believe the pipe 
would be fixed. Taking this all into account, and considering the impact of all service issues, I think its right 
that British Gas should compensate Mr S for the upset and frustration caused, and I think the 
£225 paid by British Gas is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Further points for British Gas to consider 
There are two points which Mr S has raised, which I cant see have been specifically 
addressed by British Gas  and I think its fair in the circumstances for British Gas to address 
these. Firstly, the CCTV survey report refers to a section of the pipeline at 0.50m and says, 
Water level, 50% of the vertical dimension: HOLDING AT BEND  this is shown in photo 5 
of the report and suggests water is being held at the bend in this pipe. Mr S says this issue 
was caused by previous incorrect work carried out by a company D engineer. Secondly, the 
report refers to a section of the pipeline at 3.90m and says, Joint displaced - this is shown 
in photo 8 of the report. Mr S says its this misaligned pipe which is causing waste to leak 
into his soil. Mr S says this section of the drain falls within the boundary of his property and 
isnt shared. Its not clear whether this section of the pipeline falls within the shared drains or 
within Mr Ss drain, but this would be for British Gas to investigate. I cant see British Gas 
have fully addressed these points by considering these as a claim or as a complaint. So, 
before our service can consider these, British Gas should respond directly to Mr S on these 
points. If following British Gas response to these points Mr S remains unhappy, he can then 
refer these complaints to our service.  
I can see Mr S is particularly concerned that British Gas dont appear to have identified that 
his concern goes beyond just the root damage issue to the pipeline, and includes other 
areas highlighted by the CCTV report. I hope Mr S feels reassured that Im asking British 
Gas to look into these other issues and provide him with their decision on whether any 
repairs fall within the terms and conditions. 
I wish to reassure Mr S Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman