DRN-1736739
 
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement 
with MotoNovo Finance Limited
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The other relevant circumstances would include the mileage and age of the car when it was 
supplied to Mr B. This car was first registered in 2012 and had already completed 73,500. 
But I dont think a reasonable person would accept it was of acceptable quality if it didnt 
have a working Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF).
Im persuaded the DPF was most probably not present when the car was supplied because:
Mr B complained about problems with black smoke from the exhaust in November 
2019 only five months after hed taken receipt of the car. I dont think a missing DPF 
ceramic insert would have necessarily been obvious and should therefore have been 
reported any earlier. I say that because it seems clear, from the independent 
inspection report and the third-party garage report, that a missing insert would not 
necessarily result in the car failing the MOT test. Its also apparent that its necessary 
to detach the exhaust pipe before viewing the insert. So, it would not be easy to 
identify the omission.
It would seem to make little sense for Mr B to report the emissions problem if he had 
himself tampered with the DPF.
The third-party garage cant be said to be totally independent here as Mr B paid 
them. But I find their view persuasive nonetheless as:
oit provides an explanation about where the heavier than usual exhaust 
emissions that were identified by Mr B; the independent engineer and the 
third-party garage, came from; 
othe third-party garage are referred to as an expert in this make of car by the 
supplying dealership;
othe view is based on a partial strip down of the exhaust that the independent 
inspector wasnt able to complete but did recommend. 
I dont think the independent inspector provided much detail on the issue. He was 
asked to provide a view on whether the DPF insert had been removed and whether 
the Engine Control Unit (ECU) had been tampered with, but he did neither and 
suggested both issues would require further investigation. No further investigation 
has taken place and Im therefore persuaded by the third-party garages findings as 
they do appear to have completed the investigative work that was identified as 
necessary by the independent inspector.
The independent inspector has suggested that even if the DPF had been found to be 
faulty and the ECU tampered with, this would not be likely to have been the case at 
the point the car was supplied to Mr B. He seems to have based his opinion on the 
length of time Mr B has had the car and the mileage hes completed. But Im not 
persuaded this is likely to be the case as:
othe independent inspector has explained that the car was working well, and I 
therefore think Mr B would have been able to complete the above average 
mileage he had, without issue and despite the faults identified by the third-
party garage.
oit seems the car passed a MOT in October 2019 without any concerns about 
emissions being raised. This supports the third-party garages assessment 
that a car of this type could pass emissions tests without a DPF. It also 
supports the suggestion that Mr B would not have noticed the issue.
So, I dont think this car was of satisfactory quality when supplied and I think MotoNovo 
should therefore take some action to put things right for Mr B.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation allows the business an opportunity to repair a fault that is present at 
the point of supply. I dont think MotoNovo have yet had that opportunity so they should now 
repair the DPF and remedy any modifications that may have been made to the ECU to 
prevent warnings being shown to the driver about DPF issues.
Mr B hasnt been able to drive the car since 6 November 2019 so MotoNovo should refund 
any finance instalments hes made since that date and add interest as Mr B has been 
deprived of that money whilst waiting for his case to be resolved.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint against MotoNovo Finance Limited 
and tell them to:
repair the DPF and remedy any fault with the ECU as explained above;refund any instalments Mr B has paid towards his agreement since 6 November 2019 
and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 

Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman