DRN-3219231
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about the process followed by Starling Bank Limited (Starling Bank) 
when an ATM failed to dispense cash to her.
What happened
Mrs M attempted to withdraw £200 from an ATM owned by another provider on 
20 May 2021. An error message was displayed and the £200 wasnt dispensed. On checking 
her account, she saw that the funds had been deducted from her account.
Mrs M called the ATM provider who advised her to talk to her bank. She then contacted 
Starling Bank who advised her that the funds were pending and that it could take up to eight 
days for the transaction to be reversed. 
Unhappy that she wouldnt have access to her money straight away, Mrs M raised a 
complaint. In response, Starling Bank said that the ATM may complete the reversal itself 
over the coming days but if it didnt do this, they would raise a dispute for her. They also 
explained that they followed this process to ensure Mrs M wouldnt be charged unexpectedly 
at a later date (as a result of receiving a refund twice). On day seven of the process the 
transaction was reversed, and Mrs M was able to access her funds. 
Mrs M felt that some compensation was due to her for the period of time that shed been 
without her money so referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what 
had happened but didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. So, Mrs M requested an ombudsmans 
decision on her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs M feels strongly about this matter. And I understand that shell be 
disappointed with the outcome, but I think the investigator has reached the right answer 
here. 
Its clear that Mrs M did find this situation very stressful and I understand why she feels she 
ought to be compensated for the stress that she suffered. However, before I can consider 
awarding any compensation to Mrs M, I first need to be persuaded that Starling Bank have 
done something wrong.
Ive thought carefully about the points raised by Mrs M and Starling Bank, in coming to my 
decision on this complaint.
Mrs M has pointed out that had she needed access to that £200 it would have put her in a 
very difficult position, which I accept. And its clear that Mrs M did experience seven days of 
worry and frustration while awaiting the return of funds to her account. However, I note that 
Mrs M did let Starling Bank know from the outset, that she had been able to withdraw the 
funds from another account. 
Starling Bank said they followed their procedures for this kind of issue to allow time for the 
transaction to reverse itself and avoid a situation where the customer might unexpectedly 
have funds taken from their account at a later date. They explained that a pending 
transaction cant be disputed, so a dispute could only be raised once the transaction had 
settled (meaning the money had been taken from the account). They also explained that the 
ATM might correct the issue automatically in the coming days. Starling Bank also reassured 
Mrs M that it would monitor the transaction and gave her information on how she could 
speed up the process if she wasnt happy to wait for up to eight days. 
While I understand Mrs Ms anxiety to access her funds and her subsequent frustration that 
Starling Bank couldnt give her immediate access to them, I dont think Starling Bank did 
anything wrong by waiting to see whether the funds would be debited from Mrs Ms account 
before raising a dispute. So, Ive next gone on to consider whether, taking account of 
Mrs Ms circumstances, Starling Bank treated her fairly and reasonably.
Had Mrs M been in financial difficulty as a result of the disputed transaction it may have 
been that Starling Bank could have offered support, however they wouldnt have been under 
an obligation to do this. As it was Mrs M had sufficient funds in her account to cover her 
other transactions and was able to withdraw cash from another account. So, I cant see that 
the way Starling Bank dealt with the issue caused Mrs M particular financial difficulty. 
I also note that even if Starling Bank had raised a dispute immediately theres no guarantee 
that Mrs M would have access to her funds any sooner as the dispute would have required 
investigation. And although a bank may choose to cover an alleged loss while its 
investigated, its under no obligation to do so. Furthermore, in this case, it wasnt certain that 
the funds would leave Mrs Ms account so, I dont agree the course of action Starling Bank 
took was unreasonable. In the circumstances, I dont think they acted unfairly towards 
Mrs M. So, taking everything into account, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman