DRN-3139186
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way his car insurance claim for the theft of his car has been 
settled under his motor insurance policy held with Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
(Admiral). Mr M is also unhappy with the amount he has been asked to pay when a 
replacement car was added to his policy.
What happened
On 29 May 2021 Mr Ms car was stolen and he made a claim under his motor insurance 
policy for his loss.
Admiral explained that it had found two speeding offences recorded against Mr Ms driving 
licence that he had not made it aware of when he should have. Admiral explained that Mr M 
had only been paying 75.62% of the premium he would have been charged had he disclosed 
this information to it at the correct time. Admiral therefore decided it would pay his claim on a 
proportionate basis.
As Mr Ms car was valued at £22,700 Admiral settled his claim at £17,165.74.
Mr M asked Admiral to quote for a replacement car to be added to his policy, he has told us 
that he explained the situation, so expected to receive an accurate quote, although this 
amount later changed, and Mr M was asked to pay more.
Mr M says the deduction Admiral has applied to his settlement is too high compared to the 
smaller additional premium he would have been asked to pay if the information was correct 
from the outset. Mr M also feels the valuation Admiral placed on his stolen vehicle was too 
low and that it was unfair for Admiral to increase the premium it requested for his 
replacement car after initially quoting a lower amount.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
the decision to settle Mr Ms claim on a proportionate basis was fair. He also looked at the 
value placed on Mr Ms car and found it was inline that that found in the motor trade guides, 
so thought the valuation was fair.
In addition to this our Investigator looked at the amount Admiral had quoted for Mr Ms 
replacement car. Admiral had explained the first quote was given by a different department 
to that dealing with Mr Ms claim and therefore wasnt aware of the increase that would 
apply. He considered this and felt Admirals explanation was reasonable.
Our Investigator didnt think Admiral should have to do anything to resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M disagreed. Mr M is specifically concerned about the increase in premium he was asked 
to pay for his replacement car after initially agreeing a price and confirming the SP30s had 
been considered. So, this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will look at each of Mr Ms concerns in turn.
proportionate settlement of the claim
Admiral has valued Mr Ms car and paid a proportionate amount of this value. Admiral say it 
has done this because Mr M made a qualifying misrepresentation.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Mr Ms speeding offences are dated 16 February 2019 and 13 June 2020. So, Mr M had a 
responsibility to disclose this information at the renewal of his policy that took place after 
each offence.
Admiral has explained that when Mr Ms insurance renewed in November 2019 and 
November 2020, his renewal documents stated the following.
On page one of the motor proposal confirmation:
You must check this document carefully because it is your record of the information you 
have provided and we have used this to assess the risk we are undertaking. Once you have 
checked this document, if any information is found to be incorrect, please contact us 
immediately. Failure to notify us of corrections or changes could mean we do not pay your 
claim, reduce the amount you are able to claim for or even result in your policy being 
declared void. You must read this document along with 'Your Car Insurance Guide' at 
www.admiral.com.
On page two it states:
Motoring Offences: Have you or any driver been involved in any motoring offences in the 
last 5 years, including fixed penalties, convictions, disqualifications or have any pending 
prosecution other than those listed?
I have not seen any evidence that Mr M told Admiral about the speeding offences recorded 
on his licence before his car was stolen.
With the above in mind I think it was clear to Mr M that he should have told Admiral about 
the speeding offences when his motor insurance policy renewed in 2019 and 2020 but failed 
to do so. I consider this to be careless misrepresentation.When there has been a careless misrepresentation, we find it reasonable for the business to 
pay claims on a proportionate basis based on the amount the customer has paid for the 
insurance, compared to what they should have paid. As this is the approach Admiral has 
taken towards Mr Ms claim, I think it has acted fairly. 
car valuation
Our usual approach to complaints about car valuations is to look at motor trade guides for 
valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive because their valuations are based 
on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised and auction 
prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. This considers 
all the specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the mileage.
Admiral valued Mr Ms car at £22,700. Our Investigator considered the available trade 
guides and found this amount fell within the amounts the guides produced. Although Mr M 
paid more for his replacement car, I think the amount offered by Admiral was fair as it does 
fall within what we would have expected Mr M to pay for a car similar to his insured car at 
the time it was stolen.
Increased premium for replacement car
Mr M explained that he told Admiral about his two SP30s when he discussed replacing the 
car on the policy so, it was unfair that it asked for an additional premium later. 
Ive considered what Mr M has told us and it appears a mistake may have been made by the 
Admiral representative when he first discussed adding the replacement car to his policy. But 
as Admiral has asked Mr M for the correct amount relating to the full risk of his insurance, I 
dont think it is unfair that his premium increased. And I dont think Admiral should have to do 
anything to resolve this aspect of Mr Ms complaint. 
Overall, I dont think Admiral should have to take any action to resolve Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman