DRN-3998023
The complaint
Mr E says that advice given by Berkeley Financial Partners (BFP) about his pension  to 
transfer to a new SIPP (self invested personal pension) and invest via a Discretionary Fund 
Management (DFM) arrangement  was unsuitable. 
BFP was and remains an appointed representative of FACET Investment Management Ltd 
(FACET). As the principal, FACET is responsible for the advice BFP gave. For convenience 
Ive just referred below to FACET which should be taken to mean BFP as appropriate. 
What happened
In 2016 Mr E was aged 59 and employed full time, earning around £45,000 pa. He had a 
SIPP with Standard Life. Hed taken the full amount of tax free cash in 2012 to repay his 
mortgage. He was also a member of his employers GPP (Group Personal Pension) into 
which contributions of 14% of his salary were being made. His SIPP, valued at £130,225, 
was invested across four of the providers funds: two managed funds made up nearly 57%, 
with a further 32% or so in an equity fund and about 11% in a corporate bond fund. An 
attitude to risk (ATR) questionnaire indicated Mr E was a medium risk investor (4 out of 6). 
FACETs suitability report dated 29 August 2016 recommended that Mr E switch to a 
Standard Life platform SIPP and invest using FACETs DFM service. FACET Fund no 3 was 
recommended. The report noted that the annual ongoing charge was marginally higher than 
Mr Es existing arrangement.  
Mr E accepted the recommendation. My understanding is that FACET Fund no 3 was made 
up of holdings in the FACET Cautious and FACET Balanced Funds. Both Funds were 
suspended in 2019. And in 2020 it was confirmed that the Funds would be wound up and the 
money realised returned to investors. But some of the holdings were illiquid and couldnt be 
sold. 
In 2020 Mr Es employment came to an end. Mr E completed a fact find and ATR 
questionnaire in March 2020 and was reassessed as a low risk investor. In April 2020 the 
accumulated value of his GPP was switched into his SIPP. There was a review meeting in 
June 2021. Mr E amended his ATR to lowest medium and switched to a lower risk portfolio. 
In June 2022 Mr E complained to FACET about the advice hed been given. Mr E said his 
portfolio had lost a significant amount which he believed was because too much had been 
invested in a single illiquid and high risk investment. Mr E also thought the portfolio was 
generally higher risk than his ATR. 
FACET didnt uphold the complaint. FACET said the advice was suitable as the portfolio, as 
a whole, was within the applicable risk profile. FACET did offer to waive some of its charges. 
Mr E referred his complaint to us. It was considered by one of our investigators who upheld 
it. He referred to the 2008 report issued by the then regulator entitled Quality of advice on 
pension switching and to some of the examples given as to what might constitute unsuitable 
advice, which included where extra product costs were incurred without good reason. The 
costs of Mr Es existing SIPP werent detailed but the suitability report confirmed the costs of 
the new arrangement were higher. So thered need to be a good reason for Mr E to switch. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded that was the case. His main reasons were:
The switch recommendation was primarily based on the suggestion the DFM 
arrangement could reduce volatility. FACET explained in the suitability report that 
reduced investment volatility was one probable outcome of a discretionary 
management service. But there was no guarantee of that. 
FACET said the existing SIPP portfolio matched someone with a higher medium risk 
profile, or one place higher than Mr Es medium ATR. FACET also noted that the 
existing provider had other funds available, saying: As well as accommodating the 
discretionary fund management facility, Standard Life offers an extremely wide range 
of both in-house and external investment funds. Given there was no guarantee of 
reduced volatility, or improved performance from the DFM arrangement, which also 
came at a higher cost, FACET shouldve investigated reducing the level of risk by 
switching funds within Mr Es existing SIPP. 
Mr Es recollection was that he was approached by FACET with the DFM proposal, 
rather than he himself seeking a change or, in particular, a DFM service. He was a 
relatively inexperienced investor who didnt require a DFM arrangement.
Any perceived benefits from switching to the DFM arrangement didnt outweigh the 
additional costs, with no specific guarantees of Mr E being better off as a result, 
especially when alternative reduced risk options were available under his existing set 
up. The recommendation to switch to a DFM was unsuitable.
Under a DFM arrangement, the investor is meant to be invested in assets aligned to 
their risk profile. In this case, the DFM arrangement ultimately exposed Mr E to 
assets that suffered liquidity issues and caused financial loss. It seemed one fund 
manager was given a free hand as to where to invest and when, and also in 
respect of the quantum of purchases and sales. This in itself had increased the level 
of risk.
FACET didnt accept the investigators view and referred to a recent final decision issued by 
one of our ombudsmen. FACET said some of the investigators comments were inconsistent 
with that decision. In summary FACET made the following points:
The investigators view implied a need for the sought after benefits to be guaranteed. 
That was irrational. Only in very limited scenarios would there ever be guaranteed 
outcomes. Reduced volatility or improved performance couldnt be guaranteed. 
Approaches could be taken aimed at reducing volatility but that was never 
guaranteed and wasnt a reason to suggest a solution was unsuitable. 
The fact that the Funds ultimately suffered difficulties didnt mean they were 
unsuitable at the time of the advice or that couldve been known at the time. FACET 
quoted extracts from the other ombudsmans final decision in support. 
FACET agreed thered need to be good reason for switching if the cost of the new 
arrangement was more. FACET pointed to Mr Es objectives. He wanted to move to 
an ongoing service. The solution provided that. Just switching funds within the 
existing SIPP failed to take into account that the cost would increase because Mr E 
wanted ongoing advice. 
The increased cost was addressed in the suitability report. The ombudsman in the 
other case had noted that there was sometimes more than one product or approach 
which might meet the consumers circumstances and objectives. Another adviser 
might take a different approach but that didnt mean the advice and the suggested 
solution wasnt suitable. 
The investigator considered FACETs comments but he maintained FACETs advice was 
unsuitable. The investigator made the following points:He hadnt said Mr E required or expected a guaranteed income. On balance the 
investigator didnt think the move to a DFM was warranted, given the uncertainty of 
Mr E being better off, especially when the starting point was a higher cost. 
The investigator remained unconvinced that a portfolio invested in assets that were 
so susceptible to pricing and liquidity issues could be deemed suitable for a medium 
risk investor and one who wanted to take a more cautious approach with less 
volatility. And, given the ongoing advice arrangement, it was FACET's responsibility 
at outset, and ongoing, to ensure the suitability of the investments for Mr E.
With reference to what had been said in the other decision about more than one 
product or approach being suitable, FACET hadnt considered if Mr E could achieve 
his objectives by switching funds within his existing SIPP. 
FACET disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. Amongst 
other things, FACET said events after the advice had been given, or the ultimate 
performance of the funds, werent relevant to determining if the advice was suitable at the 
time it was sought. What the ombudsman had said in the other final decision was set out  
that the later issues experienced with the Funds didnt mean the recommendation in 2016 
was unsuitable. The investigator had referred to pricing and liquidity issues. But, unless 
those shouldve been known at the time of the advice, that was with the benefit of hindsight. 
FACET also cited what the Court of Appeal had said in a case involving this service  that 
like cases should be treated alike, that consistency was required; and arbitrariness on the 
part of the ombudsman, including an unreasoned and unjustified failure to treat like cases 
alike, would be a ground for judicial review. FACET said that whether the suspension and 
liquidity problems shouldve been in FACETs reasonable knowledge and whether the model 
portfolios were a certain level of risk were both questions of fact. Deciding those factual 
points differently would be in breach of what the Court of Appeal had said. 
The investigator responded. He said the opportunity for growth decreased with a lower risk 
profile and so lower risk investments were arguably more sensitive to cost because the 
opportunity for growth is less. So it seemed counter intuitive to reduce the potential for 
growth but increase the costs. The investigator maintained that Mr Es pension fund couldve 
been switched within the existing SIPP to lower risk funds with or without ongoing advice. It 
had been an adviser led decision to go into the DFM. The investigator wasnt persuaded that 
advice had been in Mr Es best interests. 
The investigator told FACET and Mr E that, as agreement hadnt been reached, the 
complaint would be referred to an ombudsman to decide. 
FACET added that what the investigator had said might be true when dealing with very low 
risk mandates. But where, as in this case, the investment risk was medium, the notion that a 
DFM service will be too expensive to be worthwhile (again as a default position) is entirely 
misplaced. FACET said the investigators focus had been on cost. Thats an important 
consideration but there are other factors. The use of a DFM was to further the client's 
objectives. In that light and relying on its previous responses, FACET maintained it was 
incorrect to conclude the advice and using a DFM in Mr Es case was unsuitable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive read and considered everything. Ive paid particular attention to what FACET has said 
about why it doesnt agree with the investigators view. But my findings focus on what I see 
as the key issues. 
FACET has made several references to a final decision issued by another ombudsman. Im 
not bound by another ombudsmans decision. We aim for consistency but we decide cases 
on their individual facts and merits. Complaints which might appear similar may result in 
different outcomes. Although the final decision FACET has pointed to wasnt an uphold, Ive 
seen that weve issued other final decisions upholding complaints which arent dissimilar to 
Mr Es. I think that underlines our approach of deciding each case on its particular facts. 
FACET has also referred to what it considers are findings of fact and which FACET says 
should be consistent. But my decision in Mr Es case doesnt turn directly on either of the 
issues FACET has pointed to. 
I agree with the investigator and the reasons he gave as to why Mr Es complaint should be 
upheld. I dont think FACETs advice was suitable for Mr E. Essentially, Mr E had no real 
need to switch to a new SIPP. Nor do I think a DFM was necessary or suitable for Mr E. And, 
if Mr E hadnt been advised to switch so that he could avail himself of the DFM arrangement, 
he wouldnt have been exposed to the two Funds that were eventually wound up with illiquid 
assets. I agree that Mr E couldve been instead advised to switch and diversify funds within 
his existing SIPP. 
FACET has argued very strongly that the recommended solution presented advantages. And 
that it enabled Mr E to meet his objectives. Particularly in terms of the provision of ongoing 
advice and monitoring. 
The recommendation in the suitability report was said to meet Mr Es objectives of 
potentially higher returns via a more targeted and consistent investment approach, 
coupled with a product that offers all of the latest facilities in regard to investment and 
future income provision. 
I dont see thats consistent with what had been recorded about Mr Es objectives earlier on 
in the suitability report. It said that Mr E wanted to retire at age 66 (so in seven years time); 
he was concerned with recent volatility; going forwards, didnt want to take any unnecessary 
risks with his pension plan as it had taken a long time to build up; and hed like to start 
having annual reviews. FACET also noted that Mr Es current investments were consistent 
with a higher medium ATR whereas Mr Es ATR was medium. So, overall, Mr E was looking 
to take a more cautious approach, consolidate earlier gains and have the benefit of an 
annual review. 
I dont see why those aims dictated a switch to a new product with a DFM. The suitability 
report noted that Standard Life offered an extremely wide range of both in-house and 
external investment funds. Mr Es existing portfolio couldve been rebalanced to reflect a 
more cautious approach with lower volatility and some potential for growth going forwards. 
Like the investigator I dont think theres any evidence that FACET explored whether the 
funds available to Mr E under his existing arrangement couldve been utilised. Much less 
discounted that solution and explained why it wasnt suitable to Mr E. 
FACET has pointed largely to the availability of the DFM with the new arrangement and the 
facility for ongoing advice. I think Mr Es need for ongoing advice couldve been met 
differently  for example by way of an annual review. Which is what Mr E had said he 
wanted. The suitability report records hed specifically like to start undergoing annual 
reviews to check on the performance of the pension and understand what options are 
available to him. If Mr Es fund had been switched into more cautious funds with his existing 
provider I dont see thered have been a need for ongoing monitoring or more frequent review than annually. Mr E wouldve incurred advice fees but hed confirmed he was 
prepared to pay for an annual review service. There was no need to switch to a new product 
and a DFM in order to meet the requirement for periodical review.   
It isnt disputed that the suitability report said that the charges for the new arrangement 
would be more. Although, as the existing charges werent set out, Mr E couldnt see exactly 
how much more hed be paying. I agree that the cheapest solution isnt always the best one. 
And, as Ive said, Mr E wouldve incurred extra costs if an annual review had been 
incorporated. But FACET agrees that, where higher costs will result, those costs need to be 
justified. FACET said that any additional costs for the discretionary managed portfolio 
should be more than offset by both better performance and lower volatility coupled with the 
positive impact that the latter is likely to have on future regular income withdrawals. I dont 
find that statement persuasive. I dont see any real reason why it would be expected that the 
new arrangement would perform better or experience lower volatility.   
 
I dont agree that the investigators view was on the basis that the benefits under the new 
arrangement shouldve been guaranteed. I think all the investigator was saying was that 
thered need to be a reasonable prospect that improved retirement benefits would result 
which the investigator didnt think was the case. Thats my view too. 
Im not convinced that the switch to a DFM arrangement was necessary or justified in Mr Es 
case. His pension fund was modest and I think he couldve maintained his existing SIPP and 
switched to lower risk funds which couldve been annually reviewed. Mr E wasnt an 
experienced or knowledgeable investor. His existing provider offered a wide range of funds. I 
dont think Mr E needed access to a DFM. 
And introducing a DFM meant Mr Es pension fund was potentially exposed to higher risk 
investments. The DFM had a very wide investment mandate  the recommendation letter 
refers to the DFM as having a free hand as to where to invest and when.  I dont think thats 
quite the case  the DFM will usually rely on information from the adviser such as the clients 
ATR and the DFMs selection of assets or portfolio must be consistent with that  but the 
level of discretion the DFM had potentially increased the degree of risk for Mr E. 
Thats borne out by what actually happened. Some of the investments selected by the DFM 
did encounter difficulties and subsequently failed. Im not sure that FACET is entirely right 
when it says that what happened to those investments couldnt have been foreseen and so 
the benefit of hindsight has been used. Given the very wide discretion the DFM had and 
which FACET recognised from the outset, arguably it was always possible and foreseeable 
that the DFM could invest in the selected assets. 
But whether thats right or not, I dont agree with FACET that events after its advice was 
given arent relevant. Regardless of what actually happened with the investments and if it 
was foreseeable, if FACET hadnt advised Mr E to invest via the DFM, Mr E wouldnt have 
been invested as he was and he wouldnt have incurred the losses he did. Mr Es losses flow 
from the recommendation to use a DFM which Ive said was unsuitable. 
Overall Im not persuaded that switching Mr Es SIPP into a new SIPP with the same 
provider and entering into a DFM arrangement was in Mr Es best interests. I think it 
exposed him to a more expensive and complicated arrangement which wasnt necessary to 
meet his objectives and which arguably carried more risks than Mr E wanted or could 
tolerate. Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr E as close as possible to 
the position hed probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think Mr E 
wouldve retained his existing SIPP but switched into lower risk funds. I cant be certain 
precisely what investments he wouldve made instead. But on the basis he wanted to take 
slightly less risk, Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr E's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should FACET do?
To compensate Mr E fairly FACET should: 
Compare the performance of Mr Es investment with the benchmark shown below. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If the fair 
value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If theres a loss it should be paid into Mr Es pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid 
into the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If FACET is unable to pay the compensation into Mr E's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr E wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Es actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume Mr E is 
likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction 
would equal 20% as this element of his pension had been fully crystallised.
Pay Mr E £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable 
recommendation and the ongoing uncertainty around the value of his pension and 
how this might affect him in the future.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr E in a clear, simple format.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Standard 
Life SIPPSome 
liquid/some 
illiquidFTSEUK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
transferDate of 
settlementNot 
applicable
actual value 
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, any investment in the portfolio is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily
sold on the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. So, 
FACET should take ownership of any illiquid investments within the portfolio by paying acommercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount paid should be
included in the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If FACET is unable to purchase any illiquid investment the value of that investment should
be assumed to be nil when arriving at the actual value of the portfolio. FACET may wish to 
require that Mr E provides an undertaking to pay FACET any amount he may receive
from that investment in the future. The undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that
would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. FACET will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark. Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the 
fair value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal from 
the Standard Life SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was 
actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is 
a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if FACET totals 
all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of 
deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because Mr E wanted if possible some capital 
growth and was willing to accept some investment risk. I note Mr Es ATR to risk changed in 
2020 and 2021. But I think that was largely in response to what had happened and a 
reaction to the losses hed incurred. Otherwise I think hed have maintained the same 
medium ATR throughout. So I think its fair to use the same benchmark throughout. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. Although it is called income 
index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is close enough to allow me to 
use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr Es circumstances and ATR.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. FACET Investment Management Ltd must redress Mr E as Ive set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023. 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman