DRN-2767090
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Society of Lloyds decision to reject a claim he made for damage 
to his caravan under his leisure home insurance policy. 
All reference to the insurer Lloyds in my decision include its agents. 
What happened
Mr S contacted his insurer, Lloyds in August 2020 to report water damage to his caravan 
which he said was caused by a storm. 
Lloyds rejected Mr Ss claim after arranging for his caravan to be inspected by an assessor. 
It said the damage was due to gradual deterioration. As the policy excluded damage caused 
by wear and tear, Lloyds said it wouldnt cover the claim.
Mr S complained but in December 2020 Lloyds said its decision was correct. So Mr S asked 
us to look at his complaint. He told us that there were no visible signs to suggest wear and 
tear before the damage occurred. He said that if there had been damage, he would have 
arranged for it to be repaired in order to maintain the caravan. 
Our investigator thought Lloyds had reached its decision fairly. So he didnt recommend the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Mr S didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss policy with Lloyds provides cover in the event of damage caused by a storm. 
However, Lloyds says it excludes cover for damage caused by gradual deterioration and 
wear and tear. 
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality. So its not unusual for insurers 
to have limitations and exclusions to the cover they provide.
When we look at storm damage complaints, we ask three questions to decide if an insurer 
has acted reasonably. They are:
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
There are key issues identified in the report provided by the assessor who carried out the 
second of two inspections of Mr Ss caravan. The conclusions of the first inspection was that 
the damage had been caused gradually, but didnt identify the cause of damage. And as Mr 
S disagreed, Lloyds agree for a second inspection to take place. 
The second report highlights that there was damage from water coming in through the 
kitchen ceiling and that the floor by the patio doors was sagging and spongy. Water had 
come through a ceiling vent. Previous repairs had been carried out to all three roof vents. 
The assessors opinion was that there was clear evidence of gradual deterioration and 
failure of the seals around the roof vents. He found the damage wasnt caused by a one-off 
insured event. 
The assessor found the floor timbers by the patio doors were decaying and blackened by 
mould under the carpet. He said from walking on the area it was clear the floor timbers had 
lost their structural integrity. He found high damp readings in the walls each side of the patio 
doors. He concluded that water had been leaking through the door and/or its frame. 
On inspection of the gas fire hatch, the assessor found clear evidence of water ingress to the 
floor, walls and timber hatch frame. 
The assessor concluded that the damage had been occurring for some time, between a year 
and 18 months. 
Unhappy with the assessors findings, Mr S contacted Lloyds. I can see that it told Mr S he 
could arrange for an independent report to support his view that there were no signs of damp 
or damage to indicate gradual wear and tear. I think this was a fair and reasonable approach 
to take. I realise Mr S spoke to two tradesmen about the damage to his caravan and they 
gave him their opinion verbally, but this isnt enough to allow me to conclude that Lloyds 
decision to rely on the second assessors findings was unreasonable. Mr S hasnt provided 
an alternative report to support his view. 
So based on the information available to Lloyds, I think its decision to reject Mr Ss claim 
was reasonable and in line with the policy. While there was heavy rainfall at the time the 
damage occurred, Im not satisfied that the damage was consistent with damage a storm 
would typically cause, or that a storm was the main cause of damage. I think heavy rainfall 
highlighted an existing problem and the damage had occurred gradually over some time.
I understand Mr S will be very disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not asking 
Lloyds to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman