DRN-3465049
The complaint
Mr K complains Monzo Bank Ltd didnt reimburse the money he lost when he was tricked 
into paying for an item he did not receive.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that Mr K was the victim of a scam after he made a 
faster payment of £440. He made this payment for a used mobile phone hed seen 
advertised for sale on a popular social media platform.
Mr K explains hed used this same marketplace to purchase several other items before and 
had never had a problem. Hed typically arrange to collect in person, but on this occasion the 
seller was located too far from him. So, he arranged for the seller to arrange delivery 
instead. The seller provided Mr K with a picture of the phone, and they agreed a price to 
include delivery. 
Mr K asked to pay using an e-money service, but the seller told him they didnt have an 
account with that provider. She asked him for payment by bank transfer instead. The seller 
provided Mr K with a copy of her driving licence to act as proof of identity and Mr K noted 
that all the details on the licence appeared correct. In particular, the payee name hed been 
given matched the identification, which reassured him. Mr K then sent payment via his 
mobile app. 
Mr K was told hed be sent tracking details the following day. When these didnt arrive, he 
tried to contact the seller, but didnt get any reply. He then found the seller had blocked him. 
Mr K realised hed been the victim of a scam and contacted Monzo to report it.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) requires firms 
to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams in all but a limited number 
of circumstances. Monzo isnt a signatory of the CRM Code but it has stated that it is 
committed to applying the principles set out in it. Monzo said one or more of the exceptions 
to reimbursement applies in Mr Ks case and didnt agree to refund Mr K. It said it had given 
Mr K a scam warning and didnt consider hed taken sufficient steps to verify he was paying 
a legitimate seller for a legitimate item.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint and thought it ought to be upheld.
The investigator didnt believe Monzo had fairly applied the CRM Code when it considered 
his scam claim. She didnt think that Monzo had provided an effective warning. She also 
didnt agree that Monzo had been able to establish Mr K had made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing he was making a legitimate purchase from a legitimate seller.
Monzo maintained its position. In summary, it said:
- it said the CRM Code required the sending bank to supply a warning but the code 
didnt require the warning to be specific, nor was it was not obligated to describe 
scams in its warnings;
- it was satisfied its warnings met the requirements of the CRM code based on 
machine learning and experience;
- it wasnt permitted to include messages in these warnings about alternative ways to 
make payments that might be safer than bank transfer;
- Mr K had met the person via social media and he hadnt seen that the seller had 
access to the phone being sold - the photos provided by the seller could have been 
stock photos;
- Mr K hadnt done enough research into who exactly he was paying;
- While it was nearly diligent to have requested payment by a different method, when 
that alternate method was not possible it should have been a red-flag to Mr K;
- Overall, this had been a simple scam with no due diligence by Mr K. He hadnt done 
enough to check that the item was legitimately available and that the seller did have 
the device.
In light of this disagreement, I have been asked to make a final decision on the outcome of 
Mr Ks complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Mr K 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr K lost.
The money was sent from Mr Ks personal current account. It is not clear how Mr K 
would have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done. But 
if Monzo had refunded the money when it ought reasonably to have done, Mr K 
would not have been deprived of it for the time he has. So, Monzo should also pay 
interest on the balance not yet refunded at a rate of 8% simple per year. This interest 
should apply from the date Monzo first declined to refund Mr K, to the date of 
settlement.
Im satisfied that Monzo has not shown that Mr K ignored an effective scam warning or made 
the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that he was paying a legitimate seller 
for a legitimate item. It follows that I am not persuaded that Monzo has been able to 
establish those exceptions to reimbursement can fairly be applied to Mr Ks claim. I will 
explain why I have reached this finding.
The warning Monzo says it gave Mr K was not tailored to any particular scam type, being 
generic in nature. In its response to the investigator Monzo said that the CRM Code doesnt 
require that an effective warning needs to be specific or describe scams. 
I understand the challenge that Monzo faces in designing effective warnings, and fulfilling 
the requirements set out in the CRM Code. But I dont agree with Monzos argument that the 
CRM Code doesnt require such warnings to be specific. Id point Monzo to section SF1(2) in 
the CRM Code which covers (under the heading Prevention) the standards expected of the 
sending bank when providing an effective warning. At SF1(2)(e) it states As a minimum, 
Effective Warnings should meet the following criteria [] (iv) Specific  tailored to the 
customer type and the APP scam risk identified by analytics during the Payment Journey, 
and/or during contact with the Customer. In short, the CRM Code does require as part of 
the minimum standard that an effective warning should be specific. The CRM Code also states at SF1(2)(d) that Effective Warnings should enable the 
Customer to understand what actions they need to take to address the risk, such as 
more appropriate payment methods which may have additional protections, and the 
consequences of not doing so. So, I cant agree with Monzo that it isnt possible or 
permitted for the warnings it gives to mention alternative ways to make payments.
In short though, the CRM Code specifies that as a minimum an effective warning message 
needs to be tailored to the type of scam risk identified by the firm during the payment journey 
 for example that of a typical purchase scam. The warning message Monzo says it provided 
to Mr K did not meet that specification.
Further, the CRM Code requires an effective warning to be impactful - in its ability to help 
reduce the likelihood of such an APP scam succeeding. The warning Monzo says it gave 
relied on the reader already having doubts that this might be a scam - but in many such APP 
scams, the consumer has already been persuaded the payment is legitimate. I dont find the 
warning given met the requirement to be impactful. So again, I find the warning fell short of 
the minimum requirements given in the CRM Code for an effective warning.
It follows that I am not satisfied that Monzo has established that Mr K ignored an effective 
warning given in compliance with the CRM Code: the warning message provided did not 
meet the minimum requirements of such a warning.
Even if I had found the warning given was effective in terms of the CRM Code specification 
(which I do not), I dont consider Mr Ks actions in response were inappropriate. I say this 
because the message recommended clicking a link for further advice if a customer had 
doubts that the payee might be trying to scam them  giving one example as being if the 
offer sounded too good to be true. But in the circumstances here, the offer wasnt too good 
to be true, and Mr K didnt have such doubts. Ive gone onto consider whether his belief in 
the legitimacy of this transaction was a reasonable one.
The sellers explanation about the choice of payment method was simply that she didnt hold 
an account with the e-money provider Mr K would otherwise have used. While not a 
particularly sophisticated or detailed explanation I dont think there was anything implausible 
about the seller not having such an account. And in such a circumstance it is hard to see 
what alternatives were open to Mr K to suggest. Id not expect a private seller to be in a 
position to accept card payments instead. Of course, had he been collecting the item in 
person, he could have paid in cash, but the lack of proximity made this impractical.
In saying that, regardless of whether alternative methods of payment were or werent 
possible, implicit in Monzos argument is that Mr K could have simply chosen not to go 
ahead. Had there been grounds for Mr K to be concerned that the seller might not be 
genuine, Id agree that would have been the reasonable course of action for him to take. But 
in the absence of such grounds, I am not persuaded that the choice of payment method in 
itself established that Mr K could not have reasonably thought the seller legitimate. So Ive 
considered the other circumstances surrounding the payment.
Firstly, I think it relevant that the price he was paying was broadly in line with the second-
hand item being offered  it wasnt too good to be true. The contact Mr K had with the seller 
didnt raise any concerns for him, and Ive seen nothing to suggest that it should have. 
I consider the information and photos provided by the seller appeared in line with what might 
be expected were the seller legitimate  in other words while these didnt prove beyond 
doubt that the seller or item must be legitimate they didnt in themselves raise any 
reasonable concerns or doubts for Mr K. Mr K says the seller was too far away for him to 
collect in person - I dont find it particularly unusual to pay for an item online and have it delivered rather than necessarily seeing it in person first, nor a necessary cause for concern 
on Mr Ks part.
I accept Monzos point that anyone can post an advert for an item and so an advert, in itself, 
is no guarantee that a seller is legitimate, and that the photos displayed do not prove the 
seller had the item. But that evidence is not wholly irrelevant  when someone is buying an 
item, I think it is reasonable to believe that the picture they form of the reliability of the seller 
will typically be based on multiple pieces of evidence. And while I think in isolation nothing 
typically proves beyond doubt that the seller is or is not genuine, this evidence is 
nonetheless all that a customer can base their actions on, and I dont find that inherently 
unreasonable or careless.
As Ive detailed above, Mr K didnt place sole reliance on the advert or photo of the item. His 
belief in the sellers legitimacy and that of the item . While none of these was conclusive 
proof of that legitimacy, Im satisfied that Mr K carried out checks proportionate to the 
purchase he was undertaking.
In short, taking account of all the circumstances here, on balance Im not satisfied that 
Monzo has been able to establish that Mr K made the payment without a reasonable basis 
for believing he was paying a genuine seller for a genuine item. Neither do I find Monzo has 
established that Mr K ignored an effective warning it gave in compliance with the CRM Code. 
It follows that Monzo cannot fairly apply the relevant exceptions to reimbursing Mr K under 
the CRM Code.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ks 
complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd. I therefore require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr K:
The balance of the money lost through this scam, being the sum of £440.00 less any 
sums already reimbursed or otherwise refunded; and,
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date the bank 
originally declined Mr Ks claim until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman