DRN-3254117
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the fees charged by Interactive Investor Services Limited 
(IISL). They say their account was set up on a no fees basis and they want all fees charged 
since October 2019 refunded. They also complain about the charges IISL says theyll have 
to pay to transfer their shares back into their own name.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R say they were persuaded by their bank to transfer their shares to its broker in 
2012. It says they agreed on the basis that they would not be charged any fees (although 
IISL says Mr and Mrs R were charged a quarterly fee of £10 plus VAT). The broker was 
taken over by another broker in 2015, and the new broker agreed to reimburse its six-
monthly fees as a gesture of goodwill. IISL took over that brokers business in 2017.
Mr and Mrs R say IISL never told them about its fees and they werent aware they were 
being charged. They want to close their account and transfer the shares back into their own 
names, but they dont want to pay the transfer charges, particularly because of the small 
value of their holdings.
IISL said it gave Mr and Mrs R notice of its fees and terms in October and November 2017. 
And it gave Mr and Mrs R notice of a change to a monthly fee structure in 2019. Whilst it 
didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint, it credited their account with £42 as a gesture of 
goodwill, to cover the cost of one stock withdrawal.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
the fees had been charged in line with the agreed terms and conditions, that IISL had given 
Mr and Mrs R notice about its fees and charges, and that it hadnt treated them unfairly.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree. They said, in summary, that:
They never received communication about fees in 2017 and IISL hasnt provided proof 
that they sent any communication, or that Mr and Mrs R received it.
They complained about the charges as soon as they became aware of them.
They only transferred their shares because it was free of charge. The holdings they have 
are worth less than the transfer charges and on-going costs of the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as out investigator for the 
following reasons.
IISL emailed Mr and Mrs R on 5 June 2017 to tell them it had acquired their brokers 
business. The frequently asked questions included information about fees and charges. It 
said:
Later this year we will introduce a new pricing approach as part of our commitment to 
providing great value for money, through simple, fair and competitive charges.
I find Mr and Mrs R should have been reasonably aware that their charging structure was 
likely to change.
IISL emailed Mr and Mrs R on 23 October 2017 to give them notice of its terms and its fees 
which came into effect on 11 December 2017. I think it was clear from its email that Mr and 
Mrs R would be charged a quarterly fixed fee of £22.50. The email also gave Mr and Mrs R 
the option to transfer out their shares free of charge before the end of September 2018. Im 
satisfied IISL gave Mr and Mrs R fair and reasonable notice of its fees. And that it gave them 
almost a year to transfer out their shares  either to another provider or into their own name 
 without incurring any fees.
Mr and Mrs R say they didnt receive any communication from IISL and were unaware of its 
fee charges. I accept its possible that Mr and Mrs R didnt receive the emails or that they 
may have been received in their spam folder. And IISL no longer has access to the system it 
used which would evidence that the emails were sent. But, taking into account that this 
would have been an important bulk mailing to all its clients, I find, on balance, that its more 
likely than not that the emails were sent. So I cant say that IISL didnt fulfil its obligations 
here or that it treated Mr and Mrs R unfairly.
Im also satisfied that IISL communicated its revised pricing structure to Mr and Mrs R in 
June 2019.
Whilst Mr and Mrs Rs previous broker refunded its fees as a gesture of goodwill, I dont find 
there is any obligation on IISL to do so, as I cant find it has done anything wrong. And if Mr 
and Mrs R choose to transfer their stocks, IISLs fees for transfer will apply.
IISL has credited Mr and Mrs Rs account with £42 to cover the cost of one stock withdrawal. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman