DRN-3257479
The complaint
Ms W has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc avoided (treated it as if it never existed) 
her motor insurance policy and refused to pay her claim.
What happened
Mr W took out a motor insurance policy with AXA through an online price comparison site. 
When her car was damaged in an accident, she tried to claim on her policy. 
AXA declined Ms Ws claim and avoided the policy, but it refunded the premiums shed 
already paid. When Ms W complained, it said shed answered the questions shed been 
asked about modifications to the car incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a deliberate 
or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid her policy and refuse her 
claim. 
Ms W brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. She 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But she didnt think this was 
deliberate or reckless. She believed it was careless. And so she thought AXA should refund 
Ms Ws premiums, which it had already done. She also thought that its provision of a 
courtesy car and payment of £700 compensation for delays and service issues was fair and 
reasonable. 
Ms W doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. She 
said she had called AXA when she was taking out the policy and was told that she didnt 
need to declare the modifications made to her car. She said she was stressed at the time 
and this may have affected her answers to the questions asked.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the effect this matter has had on Ms W and her family. I can 
understand that this is very stressful and upsetting. I can see that the investigator has 
already recommended that Ms W should approach helping agencies and organisations for 
support. Ms W is already in touch with specialist support workers and I encourage her to 
keep in contact with them during this difficult time.
From what I can see, Ms Ws partner, a named driver on the policy, had an accident whilst 
driving her car. AXA deemed the car to be beyond economical repair and it was stored at its 
salvage agents. But AXA then decided to avoid the policy and decline the claim. So Ms Ws 
car remains unrepaired and shes without a payment to replace it. Ms W has explained that 
she needs her car and I understand that its loss is a significant blow. 
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
AXA thinks Ms W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
stated in her application via a comparison site that the car didnt have any modifications. And 
Ive looked at the question she was asked when she completed the application and agree 
she failed to take reasonable care. This is because she was asked if the car had any 
modifications, and she was provided with examples of these: 
Modifications are non-standard changes made to the car after manufacture, including new 
spoilers, alloy wheels etc
And I think this was a clear question asked by AXA through the comparison site Ms W used.
Mr W chose no as her answer. And shes explained that she called AXA to check whether 
changes to the seat covers, bumper and wheels were modifications and she was told they 
were not. But, unfortunately, theres no evidence that Ms W called AXA to ask this question. 
Ive seen that its searched its records but cant locate any call from Ms W at this time. 
As it was, the car also had other significant modifications. I think Ms W was reasonably 
aware of these as she had paid for them to be done. And Mrs W hasnt said that she told 
AXA about these in her phone call. So I think Mrs W should have declared all of these 
modifications when she took out her policy. I think this means Ms W failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she said the car didnt have any 
modifications.
AXA has provided evidence from its underwriting guidelines which shows that if Ms W had 
not made this misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered cover at all. This means I am 
satisfied Ms Ws misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
I also think Mr Ws misrepresentation was a careless misrepresentation. This is because I 
think Ms W must have realised that her car had been changed from the manufacturers 
standard. And so I think she should have declared this. But I havent seen evidence to show 
that Mrs W deliberately withheld this information. 
Therefore, Im satisfied AXA was entitled to avoid Ms Ws policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  her policy never existed, AXA does not have to deal 
with her claim following the accident. The remedy under CIDRA for careless 
misrepresentation is that AXA should refund Ms Ws premiums. And I can see that its 
already done this. 
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing AXA to rely on it to avoid Ms Ws policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome 
in this complaint. I think AXA very fairly allowed Ms W to retain a courtesy car whist her complaint was with us. 
Im satisfied that Ms W wasnt entitled to this by the policy terms and conditions. I also think 
that AXAs payment of £700 compensation for service failings and delays is fair and 
reasonable. This is because its in keeping with our published guidance. So I dont require 
AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman