DRN-3568286
Complaint
J (a Limited Company) is unhappy that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) closed its account and then 
returned a number of payments to the original senders. J is being represented in its 
complaint by one of its directors Mr E.
Background
In May 2020, Revolut decided to close Js account after it had carried out a review of Mr Es 
personal account. When Revolut closed Js account it returned the funds remaining to the 
third-party banks which sent them in the first place, rather than releasing them to J. 
Mr E, on behalf of J, was unhappy with Revoluts actions and made a complaint. Revolut 
looked at Js complaint and didnt uphold it. As J remained dissatisfied it referred the matter 
to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Js concerns. He didnt think that Revolut had done 
anything wrong or treated J unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. J 
disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Revolut acted unfairly towards J 
and so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
It might help for me to explain that a financial institution is under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. And, after completing its 
investigation, Revolut decided it no longer wished to have J as a customer. 
I know that J is unhappy that Revolut has closed this account. However, each financial 
institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to open or close 
accounts and providing accounts is a commercial decision that a financial institution is 
entitled to take. And while J is unhappy that this account was closed with immediate effect, 
Ive reviewed Revoluts actions and Im satisfied that it acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of this account when taking the action it did. 
I realise this will be disappointing to J and I can appreciate why the closure of this account 
will have been inconvenient. However, Im satisfied that J wasnt treated unfairly in relation to 
this matter.
Its fair to say that the main reason for Js unhappiness is down to Revolut returning the 
funds remaining in the account, at the time it was being closed, to the various senders. Mr E 
says he was provided with notice before his personal account was closed and if Revolut had 
provided similar notice here, J would have been able to remove the funds before they were 
returned. 
However, Revolut had already blocked the funds in Js account. So providing notice wont 
have made a difference. Furthermore, having considered what Revolut relied on when 
deciding to send the payments in question back to the remitting banks, Im satisfied that this 
was a reasonable course of action in the circumstances. And as J ought to know who sent 
the funds, Im not persuaded it was reasonable to delete any records given J knew the funds 
had been returned, it can take the matter up with the respective senders of the funds if it 
believes that it is legitimately entitled to them. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Revolut acted unfairly towards J 
and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for J. But I hope 
that it will understand the reasons for my decision and that it will appreciate why Revolut was 
entitled to close this account and return the funds it did to the banks that sent them in the 
first place.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman