DRN-3014602
The complaint
Mr V and Ms V complain that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly turned down their mortgage 
application. They want Lloyds to reimburse them around £5,000 for costs they incurred.
What happened
Mr V and Ms V wanted to re-mortgage in order to release some equity and purchase a buy 
to let property (BTL). They approached Lloyds towards the end of January 2021. Lloyds 
adviser initially prepared an illustration showing that they could borrow around £224,000.  A 
second illustration was then completed for around £222,000 with a slightly reduced term. On 
the basis of this Mr V says that he flew abroad in order to obtain more funds to put towards 
BTL purchase. But he was subsequently told that Lloyds underwriters had declined the 
application as they had decided they couldnt take account of all his income. Lloyds said that 
they could only borrow £193,000.
This didnt give Mr V and Ms V enough to buy the BTL property. So they reduced the loan 
amount to around £170,000 and their mortgage application was approved the following day 
subject to ID checks.
Mr V and Ms V complained to Lloyds. Mr V said in particular that he has lost a total of £5,000 
as he paid a £2,000 holding deposit on the BTL property, and also incurred costs in flying 
abroad. In addition, he had moved onto the standard variable rate with his previous lender 
as his fixed rate had finished.
Lloyds responded to the complaint. It said, in summary:
A re-mortgage application would normally take around 6-8 weeks. So it didnt agree 
that there had been a delay in the application. But without admission of liability it 
agreed to pay them £140, which represented the difference for April 2021 between 
what they were paying and what they would have paid after the re-mortgage;
The mortgage illustrations made it clear that the amount available might change and 
that Lloyds was under no obligation to offer the loan;
When the payslips supplied were checked they did not match the original figures 
provided. This was not to say that Mr V and Ms V had given incorrect amounts, only 
that they were unable to use all the amount received;
The application had been reviewed by the underwriting team and the decision to 
reduce the lending amount to £193,000 was correct. As this amount was not 
sufficient for their purposes Mr V and Ms V had reduced the loan to around £170,000 
to cover their existing mortgage;
Lloyds was unable to reimburse Mr V and Ms V for the expenses they had incurred 
as this had been done at their own risk as no mortgage offer had been issued. It was 
also unable to reimburse the difference in payments on their existing mortgage for 
February and March 2021.
Our investigator didnt think that Lloyds needed to take any action but Mr V and Ms V dont 
agree, and so the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. Mr V and Ms V say 
in particular that Lloyds took too long to look at their case, dealt with their complaint poorly 
and reimbursed them around £140 without checking that they were happy with the outcome 
of their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V has raised a number of issues. Ive considered everything he has to say but have 
confined my decision to those issues which I find to be central to his complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr V and Ms V are unhappy that Lloyds didnt take account 
of all income on Mr Vs payslips when calculating the maximum amount it was prepared to 
lend. To allow us to look into this issue Lloyds has supplied this service with copies of Mr Vs 
payslips and his employment contract. 
Ive looked at the payslips. I see that these show both night and weekend premiums 
alongside basic pay.
Ive also looked at the employment contract. This sets out:
Your days of work are variable. You may be required to work on any day of the week and 
this will be determined by your manager in accordance with the needs of the business from 
time to time. Your Manager will give you exact details of your shift pattern and actual working 
times on your first day at the Distribution Centre. Any change to your shift pattern and actual 
working times will be communicated to you with reasonable notice as and when necessary.
I appreciate that Mr V may in practice work nights and weekends at the moment. But Im 
satisfied that the employment contract doesnt guarantee this. Instead, the contract makes it 
clear that the days of work are variable. 
Lloyds has explained that it needs to ensure that all income taken into account is sustainable 
in order to ensure that it is lending responsibly. Im satisfied that it is reasonable that it 
should do this. So Im not persuaded that Lloyds acted unreasonably when it decided that it 
couldnt take 100% of night and weekend premiums into account for the of calculating 
whether the mortgage would be affordable.
I appreciate that Mr V is unhappy because he incurred costs  in paying a deposit on the 
BTL property, and in travelling abroad to raise further funds  before Lloyds reduced the 
amount it was prepared to lend. But Lloyds has explained that a re-mortgage application 
usually takes 6  8 weeks. So Im not persuaded that there were any undue delays in Lloyds 
considering the application. And the mortgage illustrations supplied to Mr V and Ms V make 
it clear that they do not create an obligation for Lloyds to grant them a loan. So Im satisfied 
that Mr V incurred these costs at his own risk. And I dont think it would be reasonable for me 
to ask Lloyds to reimburse him.
I note that Lloyds has paid Mr V and Ms V around £140 to reimburse them for the difference 
between his payments to his previous lender on the standard variable rate and the payments 
on the Lloyds illustration of 24 March 2021. This was made without admission of liability. As 
Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt cause undue delay in dealing with Mr V and Ms Vs application 
I dont find it reasonable to require it to pay anything further in respect of the mortgage 
payments.  
Mr V has also said that he is unhappy with the way in which Lloyds handled his complaint. 
But I can see that the final response letter was issued on 31 March 2021, so Im not persuaded that there was any delay in responding to the complaint. And, while I understand 
that he is unhappy that Lloyds paid £140 into his account without checking that he was 
satisfied with the outcome of his complaint, this hasnt prevented him from bringing his 
complaint to this service. So this doesnt change my decision.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Ms V to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman