DRN-4309760
The complaint
Mr A complains  that Nationwide  Building  Society  won't  refund  money  he paid to a 
third party  to carry  out building  works.
What happened
On 19 July 2023 I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. I wanted to give both 
sides a chance to provide any further evidence or arguments before I issued my final 
decision. That provisional decision forms part of this final decision and is copied below.
What happened
Mr A posted  an advert  on a genuine  website  for connecting  tradespeople  with jobs.
The third party,  whom  I'll call C, came  to his premises  and provided  a quote.  In late 
August  2020,  Mr A paid C £2,750.  C visited  his premises  again  and carried  out a 
limited  amount  of work.  C claimed  that he'd need  £3,000  upfront  in order  to fix a 
window.  In mid-September  2020  Mr A reluctantly  paid Ca further  £2,000  (the original  
agreement  was that payment  would  be made  on completion  of the work).
Mr A says  he never  saw C again  and that C repeatedly  gave  excuses  as to why he 
couldn't  carry  out more  work.  Mr A eventually  employed  someone  else to carry  out 
the work.
Mr A reported  the matter  to Nationwide  the following  year.  It said that it couldn't  
provide  a refund  to him as the matter  was a civil dispute.  It advised  him to contact  
Trading  Standards.
Mr A referred  the matter  to our service.  One of our Investigators  thought  that Mr A 
had been  defrauded  by C. That meant  the Lending  Standards  Board  Contingent  
Reimbursement  Model  CRM  Code  ("CRM  Code"),  which  requires  its signatories  (like 
Nationwide)  to reimburse  victims  of APP scams  (but not civil disputes)  in all but a 
limited  number  of circumstances,  was relevant.  The Investigator  also thought  that Mr 
A should  be refunded  under  the provisions  of the CRM  Code.
Nationwide  disagreed.  It pointed  to the fact that Mr A had found  Con a reputable  
website,  C had attended  his property  and carried  out some  work,  the bank  which  
operated  C's account  considered  the matter  to be a civil dispute  and Mr A hadn't  
reported  the matter  to Trading  Standards,  as advised.
As no agreement  could  be reached,  the case  was passed  to me for a final decision.
What  I've provisionally  decided   and why
I've considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.
In law, Mr A is responsible  for payments  he's authorised  himself.  Faster  payments,  
like the two disputed,  don't  attract  any of the same  consumer  protections  as 
payments  made  by plastic  card.  And,  Nationwide  has no obligation  to protect  Mr A 
from a bad bargain  or a potential  civil dispute.
I can only hold Nationwide  responsible  for Mr A's loss if the provisions  of the CRM  
Code  are relevant.  For that to be the case,  Mr A would  have  to have  been  the victim  
of a scam,  which  is defined  in the CRM  Code  as:
...a transfer  of funds  executed  across  Faster  Payments  ... where:
(i)The Customer  intended  to transfer  funds  to another  person,  but was instead  
deceived  into transferring  the funds  to a different  person;  or
(ii)The Customer  transferred  funds  to another  person  for what  they believed  were  
legitimate  purposes  but which  were  in fact fraudulent.
Clearly  the first provision  is not relevant  here.  But I've considered  whether  the second  
might  be. In this case,  I'd need  to decide  whether  Chad  no intention  of completing  the 
work  when  he took Mr A's money.  I'd need  to be satisfied  that C was intent  on 
defrauding  Mr A. That's  an accusation  of criminal  wrongdoing  and not one that I take 
lightly.
I've reviewed  information  provided  by the bank  which  operated  C's account.  The 
activity  on the account  seems  broadly  consistent  with that of a tradesperson.  That 
bank  doesn't  appear  to have  had any concerns  about  the account  and hasn't  
received  any other  reports  of fraud.
In addition,  the website  that Mr A posted  his request  for work  on appears  to carry  out 
some  vetting  of its members.  It claims  to reject  around  a third of applicants  and there  
appears  to be costs  associated  with membership  and responding  to adverts.
Overall,  other  than Mr A's account  of events,  the evidence  available  isn't consistent  
with the finding  that C was operating  fraudulently.  And while  I can see why Mr A 
believes  that taking  the second  payment  only to not return  to complete  the work  
amounts  to fraud,  there's  any number  of reasons  why C might  not have  been  able to 
carry  out the work.  Unfortunately,  businesses  can fail or be mismanaged  such  that 
contracts  are breached  and agreed  services  aren't  provided.  But that doesn't  
necessarily  amount  to evidence  of an intent  to defraud.
I can't  see that Mr A has reported  this matter  to Trading  Standards,  the police  haven't  
taken  any action  and it doesn't  appear  that Mr A has attempted  to pursue  this matter  
through  the civil courts  either.  It is for Mr A to demonstrate  that he was the victim  of 
fraud,  but the evidence  doesn't  support  that finding.  So, while  I know  it will be 
disappointing  for Mr A, I don't  find that the CRM  Code  is relevant  and therefore  
Nationwide  aren't  responsible  for refunding  Mr A's loss.
My provisional  decision
For the reasons  I've explained,  I do not intend  to uphold  this complaint.
Nationwide didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr A only added that he was 
disappointed with the provisional decision and that he hadnt received what hed paid for.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr A is disappointed with the outcome but as neither side has made any 
substantive new submissions, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision  I do 
not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman