DRN-1113134
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Elderbridge Limited didn't send annual statements for their 
secured loan.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a loan in 2004, secured by a charge on their property. Their loan 
account has since been transferred to Elderbridge.
After Mr and Mrs W raised a complaint Elderbridge sent them statements for their account. 
After reviewing the statements, Mr and Mrs W raised questions about transactions and their 
balance. I'm not looking into that here, I'm only looking into their complaint about not being 
sent annual statements.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said while Elderbridge isn't 
required to send annual statements, it's unfair that it didn't provide information to Mr and Mrs 
W so they could manage their account. He said it should pay £150 compensation for the 
confusion and inconvenience caused.
Elderbridge didn't agree. It said it doesn't have to send annual statements, but does provide 
statements on request, for which it can charge a fee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W's secured loan with Elderbridge isn't regulated. So the rules don't apply to it in 
the same way as for a regulated mortgage or credit agreement. There's no specific legal or 
regulatory requirement for Elderbridge to send annual statements to Mr and Mrs W.
But I'd still expect Elderbridge to treat Mr and Mrs W fairly, and to provide clear information 
to them. It's likely that the amount Mr and Mrs W owe represents a significant commitment 
for them, and because it's secured on their home the consequences of not maintaining 
payments could be serious. So I think it's fair for Elderbridge to provide information to them 
about their account, so that they understand what they owe and can manage the account 
and their other commitments.
How Elderbridge provides information is a matter for it to decide. Annual statements is one 
way that this information could be provided. Elderbridge could provide information to Mr and 
Mrs W in another way if it prefers. I asked what it had sent to Mr and Mrs W, and it provided 
copies of letters. But these are recent and relate to arrears on the account. 
 
Putting things rightI think it would have been fair for Elderbridge to provide information to Mr and Mrs W to help 
them manage their account. I can't see that it did this. I think it should pay compensation of 
£150 for the upset, trouble and confusion this caused. Elderbridge has now sent statements 
to Mr and Mrs W.
It seems from the recent information provided by Elderbridge that Mr and Mrs W are 
struggling to make payments and their arrears have increased. Elderbridge has asked Mr 
and Mrs W to get in contact with it and I would encourage them to do so. They might also 
consider seeking independent advice or contacting a free debt advice service. 
When dealing with Mr and Mrs W's account Elderbridge should of course bear in mind 
guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority in response to the Covid-19 pandemic 
and its responsibility to treat Mr and Mrs W fairly. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Elderbridge Limited to pay £150 to Mr and 
Mrs W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman