DRN-3005058
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays) failed to recall a payment she made 
by mistake.
The details of this complaint are well known, so I will not repeat everything again here. 
Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I understand that Miss S mistakenly paid £700 to an individual on her payee list. But I 
dont think Barclays did anything wrong by processing the payment, as she had given 
the bank instructions (albeit mistakenly) to make the payment to a payee that was 
already set up on her account. And given that she had made a payment of £300 to 
the individual just a few weeks prior, I dont think there was any reason for Barclays 
to have stopped the payment or to have questioned Miss S about its purpose before 
executing the transaction. I appreciate it was an unfortunate mistake, but it was up to 
Miss S to ensure the details she had entered into her online banking were correct.
Miss S doesnt think that Barclays did enough to recall the payment. However, I can 
see that they sent a recall request to the beneficiary bank (Metro) on the same day 
they became aware of the error Miss S had made. I understand it took a few weeks 
to confirm that the funds no longer remained in the mistaken beneficiarys account, 
but this was because Metro took a few weeks to respond. This was out of Barclays 
control and Im not persuaded theres anything they could have done differently in 
this respect, other than promptly raising the recall request with Metro  which Im 
satisfied they did.
I also understand that Miss S feels she was given false hope by Barclays about 
whether or not she would get her money back. But I havent seen anything that would 
suggest the bank gave any guarantees or promises that wouldve led her to believe 
that she would be successful in recalling the funds. Indeed, it is largely out of 
Barclays control as it depends on whether the funds still remain with the beneficiary 
bank. So Im not persuaded they have done anything wrong here, and neither do I 
think theyve provided Miss S with poor service. Therefore, I will not be 
recommending any further compensation on top of the £100 goodwill gesture 
Barclays have already made. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss S, who understandably feels strongly 
about this matter, and I sympathise with the position shes in as she has lost £700. But I do 
not consider Barclays to be responsible for this, so I will not be asking them to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman