DRN-1847303
The complaint
Ms G says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms G bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold for the following reasons.
The sale was a long time ago, so its understandable that theres no documents or 
information to confirm exactly how the sale took place. Ms G says the sale took place over 
the phone, and she thought the PPI was compulsory. But, given the lack of evidence, I dont 
think it would be reasonable to uphold the complaint based solely on her recollection. So, I 
dont think I can say that RBS failed to make it clear that Ms G had a choice about buying 
the PPI or that she didnt agree to take it. 
I dont know if RBS recommended the PPI to Ms G, but it appears to have been right for her. 
Although she had some sick pay through her work, the PPI wouldve paid on top of this and 
for longer. Help from her partner and parents wouldnt be guaranteed, as it would depend on 
their circumstances, which could change. So, if Ms G had been unable work for a long time, 
the PPI wouldve been useful.
Its possible the information RBS gave Ms G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms G. But RBS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms G because it got a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms G about that. 
Because RBS didnt tell Ms G, that was unfair. To put that right, RBS has paid back the 
amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium. I think that 
is fair in this case  and it appears Ms G accepted this.Ive thought about everything Ms G has said. But these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms G.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Ms G any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman