DRN-3640003
The complaint
Mr O complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs decision to block his account and withhold his 
money.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr O transferred a large amount into his HSBC account for a property 
purchase. He provided written confirmation that he wanted to make a transfer to property 
solicitors to complete the transaction. HSBC refused the transfer and blocked Mr Os 
account for a review.
Mr O borrowed money from elsewhere to complete the property purchase. He also initially 
confirmed that as he was overseas, he had to spend time chasing HSBC on the telephone 
for an update on what was happening, and his family members had to attend the branch on 
his behalf. Mr O said one of his family members received poor service from HSBC. 
HSBC requested further information which Mr O provided in January 2021. After March 
2021, HSBC didnt take any further action, however the account remained blocked with Mr O 
being unable to access his money.
Mr O brought the complaint to our service. He wanted his account to be unblocked so he 
could access the money and compensation for the distress and inconvenience. In the 
meantime, HSBC offered a goodwill payment of £50 to recognise the poor customer service 
Mr Os family member received in branch. Our investigator passed on this offer but 
confirmed he wasnt able to comment on it, or endorse it, as Mr Os family member wasnt 
HSBCs customer and therefore, our service doesnt have the relevant powers to consider 
the impact caused to an individual who isnt the banks customer.
Our investigator gave an initial assessment upholding Mr Os complaint. He explained that 
he hadnt been provided with sufficient information from HSBC, despite several requests, to 
confirm why the account remained blocked after Mr O provided the information in January 
2021. Our investigator asked HSBC to remove the restriction on the account, pay 8% simple 
interest on the money held within it from January 2021 up to the date they release the 
money, and pay Mr O £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience. 
In response to the view, Mr O provided further information on the impact this situation had on 
him. He explained hed had to pay additional months rent due to not knowing whether the 
property purchase would be completed in time, and his wife had to rent an additional 
property at the same time to honour her job. He also explained that the money he borrowed 
from elsewhere had a high interest rate and it was honoured by a verbal contract. Mr O also 
updated our service to state that he also attended branch and had to pay for a return flight to 
be able to do so. So he wanted HSBC to cover this additional financial loss.
HSBC responded and provided further information on the block and their actions between 
January 2021 and March 2021. HSBC agreed there had been delays from March 2021 so 
while they agreed that 8% simple interest should be paid, they considered this should be 
from March 2021 as they were actively reviewing the case up until this date. HSBC also 
agreed with the £500 compensation and removed the block from Mr Os account after 
receiving further information from him in February 2022.
Our investigator reviewed the information provided by both parties and came to a different 
conclusion. While still upholding the complaint, he considered that HSBCs actions between 
January 2021 and March 2021 were reasonable and therefore considered the block was 
appropriately placed up until 5 March 2021. Due to that, our investigator explained that it 
wouldnt be fair to ask HSBC to cover the costs of the additional rent or the flights as both of 
these events took place before March 2021. And he explained he couldnt cover the cost of 
the higher interest rate on the loan as he hadnt received sufficient evidence for it.
Mr O remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review things. Therefore, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Since the complaint has been awaiting a decision, Mr O has provided a written statement to 
show evidence that the loan was agreed and the interest rate it incurred. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to make Mr O aware that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. 
We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive
information. Some of the information HSBC has provided is information that we considered
should be kept confidential.
HSBC are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
Im satisfied HSBC was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed Mr Os account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong.
As part of their review, HSBC asked Mr O for information, which theyre entitled to do under 
their obligations. Ive acknowledged that Mr O provided this information, and Im satisfied 
that HSBC reviewed it and continued with their review up until March 2021. 
Based on the information Ive received, it appears that HSBC werent satisfied with the 
information Mr O provided and required additional information from him to satisfy the review 
fully. While HSBC are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a timely 
manner and without undue delay. Im aware HSBC contacted Mr O in 2022, after 
involvement from our service, and additional information was provided. Following that, the 
block was removed in February 2022. Having considered this, while Im satisfied the 
additional information was warranted, I consider HSBC caused unnecessary delays between 
March 2021 and February 2022.
I dont doubt this overall situation had a huge impact on Mr O; especially during an already 
stressful time of a house purchase. Ive carefully considered the impact and financial losses 
Mr O has commented on.
While I understand Mr Os reasoning behind the additional months rent, I cant fairly hold 
HSBC responsible for that. I say that because the further months rent was the months prior 
to March 2021  and Ive explained above why Im satisfied with HSBCs actions up until March 2021. Similarly, Mr O said he had to book a return flight to be able to attend a branch 
in the UK to sort out the issue. However, this event also took place before March 2021 and 
therefore it wouldnt be appropriate for me to ask HSBC to cover these costs during the time 
their actions were wholly appropriate.
Mr O has since provided additional evidence regarding the loan he took out to complete the 
property purchase. Ive also seen evidence to show that the property completed before 
March 2021. While Im pleased to see Mr O took it upon himself to borrow this money and 
mitigate further losses by potentially losing the property, I dont consider HSBC were unfair 
in blocking the transaction, and the account when they did. Im also satisfied they actively 
reviewed the account from January 2021 when they first applied the block, up to March 
2021, when it appears HSBCs activity stopped. So even if the delays didnt occur and HSBC 
asked for additional information and unblocked the account in March 2021, Mr O would have 
still found himself needing to borrow the loan money. Therefore, it wouldnt be fair for me to 
uphold the complaint on this part, as I havent seen anything to persuade me that HSBCs 
actions were unreasonable at the time Mr O took out the loan.
Overall, Im satisfied with HSBCs actions between January 2021 and March 2021 and 
therefore cant fairly uphold the complaint on any financial impact or inconvenience during 
this time. However, I do consider HSBC caused unnecessary delays, and therefore 
inconvenience, from March 2021 onwards so I think appropriate compensation needs to be 
paid to Mr O and the loss of use of the funds needs to be recognised.
Putting things right
As HSBC caused unnecessary delays, I consider they should recognise the time Mr O was 
without his money and pay 8% simple interest to recognise this loss. Our service uses the 
8% simple interest amount as this also reflects the current statutory interest rate on 
judgment debts and therefore, I consider it to be the fairest in the circumstances. HSBC 
should pay this amount from 5 March 2021 (the date their investigation ceased) up until the 
date the block was removed  15 February 2022. 
I also consider £500 compensation is a fair amount to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right, HSBC UK 
Bank Plc should:
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they withheld from Mr O. They 
should calculate this from the date the delays started - 5 March 2021  up to the date 
they removed the block  15 February 2022.
Pay Mr O £500 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman