DRN-4419527
Complaint
Mr C has complained about loans Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr C with a first loan for £1,000.00 in August 2019. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of £101.19. In November 2020, Mr C was 
provided with a second loan for £2,000.00. This loan had a 24-month term with monthly 
repayments of £163.27. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr C and 118 118 Money had told us. And she 
thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint be upheld. Mr C disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr C could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money provided Mr C with loans for £1,000.00 and £2,000.00 in August 2019 and 
November 2020. These loans were due to be repaid in 12 and 24 monthly instalments 
respectively. 118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Cs applications after he provided details 
of his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. 
It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out. And all of 
this information showed Mr C could comfortably afford to make the repayments he was 
committing to. On the other hand, Mr C has said the loans were unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr C and 118 118 Money have said. 
118 118 Money has provided a record of the results of its credit searches. Bearing in mind 
what the searches showed, particularly when loan 2 was being provided, I do think that 118 
118 Money needed to find out more about Mr Cs circumstances before agreeing to provide 
these loans. And Im therefore not persuaded that the checks it carried out were reasonable 
and proportionate in this instance.
As 118 118 Money didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks, Ive gone on to 
decide what I think 118 118 Money is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained 
further information from Mr C. What I need to think about here is what did 118 118 Money 
need to do in order to answer the questions its initial checks left unanswered  in other 
words, what were Mr Cs actual regular living expenses (bearing in his credit commitments 
were already validated by the credit searches)?
The information Mr C has provided does appear to show that when his committed regular 
living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from his monthly income, he 
did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under these 
agreements. 
I accept its possible that Mr Cs actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what the information hes provided shows. And given some of the transactions on           
Mr Cs account, I have a suspicion why this could have been the case. 
But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And I dont think that 118 118 Money 
could possibly be expected to have known that the payments to this agreement were 
unaffordable bearing in mind that obtaining bank statements wasnt the only way for 118 118 
Money to find out more about Mr Cs actual regular living expenses. 
Ive also kept in mind that 118 118 Money provided a second loan to Mr C and that 
sometimes repeat borrowing in itself can be an indication of difficulty. But while the amount 
advanced for loan 2 was higher, there was a break of a few months between loan 1 being 
repaid and loan 2 being provided. 
So while the pattern of lending here has seen me take a closer look at the individual 
applications, Im satisfied that it ought to have been obvious to 118 118 Money that Mr C 
might have taken loan 2 because of the effect loan 1 left on his finances. And there isnt 
anything else obvious in these applications which clearly demonstrates proportionate checks 
would have shown Mr C couldnt have afforded the loans either. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything 
wrong when deciding to lend to  Mr C  Ive not been persuaded that proportionate checks 
would have shown the loans to be individually unaffordable. And the second loan was 
provided in circumstances where Mr Cs indebtedness, to 118 118 Money at least, didnt 
appear to be increasing unsustainably. 
So I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr C. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman