DRN-3177647
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy as he feels Oakbrook Finance Limited  trading as Likely Loans  provided 
him with a loan when it shouldnt have. Mr K said the loan was unaffordable for him.
What happened
On 28 May 2019 Mr K applied for a line with Likely Loans. And Likely Loans agreed to lend 
the £4,500 Mr K asked for. The loan agreement was for a period of 24 months  with Mr K 
due to pay back £7,840.08 by the end of the term. The monthly payment towards the loan 
was £326.67, and the APR on the loan was 79.9%
Mr K has said Likely Loans did the wrong thing in lending to him. He has explained that at 
the time of applying for the loan, he had exhausted an overdraft on his bank account, with 
the overdraft being around £2,750. He said that given this information, Likely Loans should 
have realised that taking out borrowing with it would have been unaffordable for him. And so, 
it should have declined his applied.
Mr K has explained that a few months after taking out the loan, he unfortunately became 
unemployed. And he then couldnt afford to make the repayments to this debt. Mr K said he 
felt pressurised to pay the outstanding balance, and so took another loan out, to settle this 
one. Mr K said at this point, he was told he would receive a reimbursement on the account 
for some interest, as a result of repaying the loan early. But Mr K said he never received any 
documents to confirm the above, and that the loan was settled.
Likely Loans looked into Mr Ks complaint, and said it was satisfied it had lent to him 
responsibly. It explained that it had considered Mr K income, verifying this using standard 
industry tools. And that it checked Mr Ks credit file, as well as used an estimation of his 
living expenses using Office of National Statistics (ONS) data. It said completing these 
checks showed the £326.67 was affordable for Mr K.
Mr K didnt think Likely Loans response was fair, and so he referred his complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They thought 
Likely Loans had carried out proportionate checks when deciding whether to lend to Mr K. 
And they didnt think the checks Likely Loans completed suggested the lending was 
unaffordable or unsustainable. But, instead showed that Mr K had sufficient disposable after 
his financial commitments, to enable him to sustainably repay the loan.
Mr K didnt agree. He refered to a copy of his bank statement for the month he took out the 
lending with Likely Loans, which showed he was in his overdraft by around £2,750, with him 
having exhaused this facility. 
Our investigator told Mr K that the checks Likely Loans needed to do had to be proportionate 
to the borrowing being sought. So, that didnt mean Likely Loans had to check bank 
statement. The investigator felt the checks Likely Loans completed in this case were 
proportionate to the borrowing Mr K had taken out. And so, it acted reasonably when 
agreeing to lend to him.
As Mr K was in disagreement with our investigators view, his complaint has been referred to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Its important to highlight that when coming to my decision Ive taken into account the 
relevant law, rules and guidance in relation to concerns about irresponsible lending. And Ive 
needed to consider the below key issues;
Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks, to satisfy itself that 
Mr K would be able to make repayment of the loan in a sustainable way?
If Likely Loans did complete the above  was a fair decision made, in respect of 
whether to lend to Mr K?
If Likely Loans didnt complete the above, would reasonable and proportionate 
checks have shown Mr K would have been able to make repayments in a sustainable 
way?
Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr K in any other way?
Ive done this in relation to the loan Mr K was provided in May 2019.
Reasonable and proportionate checks?
In May 2019, Likely Loans was required to carry out a reasonable assessment of whether 
Mr K could afford to make the loan repayments in a sustainable way. And when carrying out 
checks to make sure this was the case, the checks had to be borrower focused. So, this 
means Likely Loans had to consider the impact the lending would have on Mr K  not just 
how likely it was that Likely Loans would receive its money back by the end of the term.
As above, Likely Loans also had to make sure the checks were proportionate to the 
circumstances of the loan. Whether a check is proportionate will depend on the 
circumstances of the loan applied for. So, checks could include a number of things, including 
 but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g their financial history, 
current situation and outlook, and any indictions of vulnerability of financial difficulty) and the 
amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
So, Ive considered this in relation to the loan agreed in May 2019. To do this, Ive looked at 
what checks Likely Loans completed, and what information it gathered at the time of the 
lending, to see whether the checks it made were proportionate enough for Likely Loans to be 
confident the lending would be sustainable for Mr K. 
And having done so, Im satisfied Likely Loans did complete proportionate checks, before 
agreeing to lend to Mr K in this instance.
Ive seen a copy of the information Mr K provided when he completed his application for 
lending. In this Mr K noted his income was £26,000 per annum. Likely Loans has said it did 
also complete a verification check on this information. It used standard industry tools, which 
looks to see whether the disclosed income is consistent with turnover of the consumers 
bank accounts. And the check came back showing it was. Likely Loans has provided me with a document which shows this collected credit data. So, Im satisfied Likely Loans took 
steps to verify Mr Ks income.
In terms of expenditure  Likely Loans completed a credit file check. From the information 
Ive seen, this check shows Mr K had two active accounts at the time of the lending  this 
being a current account, and a mail order account. Ive seen a copy of Mr Ks credit report 
and agree this is the information the credit check showed.
In addition to this, Likely Loans calculated Mr Ks likely monthly living expenses, using data 
from the Office of National Statistics (ONS), and noted this was £907.49. After taking into 
account Mr Ks current credit commitments, living expenses and the monthly payment for 
this loan, Likely Loans said the information showed a disposable income of £500.28. And 
given this, it was satisfied the checked showed Mr K could repay the loan sustainably. 
Mr K has said that if Likely Loans had asked for his bank statement prior to its decision to 
lend, this would have provided a different picture on the matter. And that may be the case. 
But, there is no requirement on Likely Loans to have checked bank statements. Rather, 
Likely Loans needed to complete a reasonable assessment of Mr Ks affordability, doing so 
in a proportionate way. And I think that given the amount the loan was for and the length of 
it, the checks completed were reasonable and proportionate. So, Im satisified Likely Loans 
acted correctly here. 
Was a fair decision made, in respect of whether to lend to Mr K?
As Im satisfied proportionate checks were carried out in this case, I need to decide whether, 
in light of the information gathered, a fair decision was made by agreeing to lend to Mr K. 
Ive thought carefully about this. And I think Likely Loans did made a fair decision to lend, 
based on what those proportionate checks showed.
Mr K has highlighted that after taking out the loan, Mr K became unemployed, and therefore 
had trouble in making payments towards the borrowing. Im sorry to hear that was the case. 
And I can see how this would have been upsetting, and frustrating for Mr K. But Likely Loans 
wouldnt have known this when agreeing to lend to Mr K. And so, Im satisfied it doesnt 
make a difference to the outcome of this complaint.
Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr K in any other way?
Ive thought about whether Likely Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way. 
And I dont think it did. Im satisfied it did complete reasonable and proportionate checks. 
And those checks suggested to Likely Loans that Mr K would be able to repay the loan 
without being placed into undue difficulty.
Mr K has mentioned that after becoming unemployed, he felt pressurised into making 
payments towards this loan, and so he took out further borrowing elsewhere, in order to 
settle the account. I cant see that Mr K has raised these concerns with Likely Loans. So, 
Mr K will need to raise these with Likely Loans in the first instance, should he wish to do so.
I understand Mr K also explained he hasnt had confirmation of this loan having been paid of. 
But, I understand he has now received a breakdown of payments he made towards the loan, 
showing it being settled, with a rebate of some interest for repaying the loan early. And 
Mr Ks credit report does also note the loan was settled last year. So, Im satisfied Mr K has 
this information.
My final decisionGiven the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Oakbrook Finance Limited  trading as Likely Loans  to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman