DRN-4318749
The complaint
Mr D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly closed his account without 
providing an explanation or warning. Mr D says this caused him unnecessary inconvenience 
and worry for which he should be compensated.
What happened
Mr D had a personal account with NatWest. 
In February 2023, following a review, NatWest decided to close Mr Ds account. NatWest 
wrote to Mr D giving him 60 days notice that he needed to make alternative banking 
arrangements. 
Mr D complained to the bank and asked for an explanation behind his account being closed. 
He said he never received a notice to close letter from the bank and he only found out his 
account had been closed when his bank card was declined when he was out shopping, 
which he found upsetting and stressful. NatWest wouldnt give Mr D much information. It 
said it had closed his account in line with the account terms and conditions and regulatory 
obligations. And it explained that it had also sent Mr D a letter explaining that his account 
would be closed to the address it had on file for him. NatWest also said it wasnt obliged to 
provide Mr D with an explanation behind the closure. So, it didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Unhappy with this response, Mr D brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Mr D told us that hed been a good customer 
of the bank for a number of years. He said the account was his main account and NatWests 
actions had caused him a great deal of stress and worry. He said his direct debits bounced 
and his salary wasnt able to be credited to his account, which caused him a lot of problems. 
He also said he never got a letter from the bank about his personal account being closed, 
instead he says he got one relating to his business account. So, he says NatWest didnt let 
him know it was closing his personal account.
The investigator asked NatWest to provide more information about why it had closed Mr Ds 
account. But NatWest said it couldnt provide anything more than it had already provided to 
us. And it maintained that it hadnt treated Mr D unfairly when it had closed his account. It 
also pointed out that during the notice period Mr D had full access to his account. NatWest 
also provided the investigator with a copy of the notice to close letter it sent Mr D.
The investigator said based on the limited information the bank had provided, they couldnt 
say the bank had treated Mr D fairly when it had closed his account. So, the investigator said 
NatWest should pay Mr D £100 compensation for any trouble and upset the closure of his 
account had caused Mr D. They also said NatWest did write to him about closing his 
account. NatWest accepted what the investigator said. Mr D didnt. He said that the amount 
of compensation doesnt adequately reflect the amount of trouble and upset he has suffered. 
He wants more compensation and says he had to take time off work to sort things out with 
NatWest so should be compensated at his hourly rate, which is around £700. Hes also 
unhappy that NatWest havent explained why it closed his account. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, in response to the investigators view, Mr D has said he is concerned that the 
investigator is biased because they have only partly upheld his complaint with the 
implication being that the bank is influencing our conclusions inappropriately. Whilst I do 
recognise his concern, as an ombudsman service our approach is to consider what both 
parties say and then reach our own independent conclusions on that evidence. That is what 
we have done in this complaint. If Mr D does not agree with our view, he does not have to 
accept it, and if he does not accept this final decision, he will be free to continue to pursue 
his concerns by other means should he wish to do so. I cannot, however, advise him on how 
to go about doing that.
Banks are entitled to decide for themselves whether to do business or continue doing 
business with a customer. Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment 
for deciding whether to continue providing accounts and providing an account to a customer 
is a commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Thats because it has 
the commercial freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. But they 
shouldnt decline to open an account without proper reason, for instance of unfair bias or 
unlawful discrimination. And they must treat new and existing customers fairly.
Mr D wants NatWest to explain why it no longer wanted him as a customer. But NatWest is 
under no obligation to tell Mr D the reasons behind the account review and closure, as much 
as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr D this 
information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
NatWest can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. NatWest have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr Ds account. The terms explain that the bank can close the account with notice. However, 
NatWest still needs to provide information to this service so we can fairly decide a complaint. 
Despite being asked by the investigator, NatWest has failed to provide information about 
why it no longer wanted Mr D as a customer. 
Ive considered what NatWest has said about why it wont provide further information to our 
service about the reasons it closed Mr Ds account. This service has the power to request 
evidence of this nature under the dispute resolution rules (DISP) and Im not persuaded the 
reasons given by NatWest exclude it from complying with these rules. So, in this particular 
case, because of the lack of information I cant be satisfied that NatWest has treated Mr D 
fairly when it closed his account. Taking this into account, I agree NatWest should pay Mr D 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by closing his account.
NatWest agreed to pay £100 as recommended by the investigator. Mr D says this isnt 
enough. And says he should be compensated based on his hourly rate. I should explain that 
when we award compensation, we dont usually award compensation on the basis of a 
complainants business or professional hourly rate. I havent seen any evidence that Mr D 
was acting in his professional capacity when contacting NatWest. Mr D also hasnt provided 
any evidence that contacting NatWest meant he lost out on income. So, I dont think based 
on the evidence Mr D suffered a financial loss. Mr D has also said that his credit file was impacted by NatWest closing his account. And his 
direct debits bounced, which resulted in him being charged. But again, Ive not seen any 
evidence that this was the case. Having looked at his bank statements during the notice 
period I can see that Mr Ds direct debits appear to be debiting his account. And deposits 
were being credited. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award compensation for 
something there is no evidence of. 
NatWest agreed to pay £100 as recommended by the investigator. Having considered what 
Mr D has told us about how the closure of his account impacted him, Ive no doubt this was a 
worrying and upsetting time for him. He also had to go to the trouble of finding and opening a 
new bank account. But having looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this 
complaint, I havent found grounds to increase the level of compensation. Im satisfied that 
£100 compensation is a fair amount of compensation and proportionate to the trouble and 
upset Mr D was caused. So, while Mr D may disagree with me, I wont be asking NatWest to 
do anything else to resolve this complaint. 
Finally, Mr D says NatWest didnt send him a letter informing him that it intended to close his 
personal account. He says he received a letter, but that this was addressed to his business. 
NatWest has sent us a copy of the letter it sent to Mr D about his personal account. I can 
see that the letter is addressed to the address Mr D has provided this service. It is dated 13 
February 2023, and relates to Mr Ds account ending 9616, which is his personal account. I 
havent seen anything to suggest Mr D had problems with his post, and I note he received 
another letter from the bank relating to his business account which was also sent out on the 
same date. So, I think its likely Mr D did receive the letter NatWest sent to him informing him 
that it was closing his personal account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint. To put things right National 
Westminster Bank Plc should: 
Pay Mr D £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the bank closing 
his account
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman