DRN-1891440
 
The complaint
Mrs R complains on behalf of her and her late husband, Mr R, that Santander UK Plc
("Santander") mis-sold them a payment protection insurance ("PPI") policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage with Santander in 1990. Some years later, in 2004, they
applied to borrow more money on the mortgage to complete some home improvements. At
the same time they were sold a PPI policy which would have covered the repayments on
their mortgage for up to 12 months at a time if Mrs R couldn't work due to an accident,
sickness, redundancy or if she left work to become a carer.
Mrs R has said that she wasn't told the PPI had been added. She says she wasn't told the
terms and conditions and she doesn't remember the cost being fully explained.
The adjudicator who first looked at Mrs R's complaint thought that her complaint should be
upheld. They thought that Santander hadn't been able to show that Mrs R had been given a
choice about the PPI.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicator's view, so the case was referred to me to make a 
decision.
I disagreed with the adjudicator's initial view and didn't uphold Mrs R's complaint. I explained 
why and asked both parties to provide any further information they wanted me to look at by 2 
May. Neither party has provided any further information or made any comment. So I don't 
have a reason to change my provisional decision, which is explained below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and I've taken
this into account when deciding this complaint. Having done so, I'm not upholding
Mrs R's complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mrs R, but I'll explain why I've
reached this decision.
The adjudicator thought Santander hadn't done enough to show Mrs R had been given a
choice about the PPI. Mrs R says she didn't know it had been added at all.
Santander has provided a copy of the further lending application form that Mrs R completed.
I can see from this Mrs R was given a choice about a number of different products. She
didn't select any of them on this form, but she also didn't select boxes which would have
declined the products either. However, I'm satisfied this shows Mrs R did have a choice,
and would have known she had a choice about taking the PPI.I've considered Mrs R's statement that she didn't know it had been added at all. I appreciate
that over 15 years have passed since the sale so it's possible Mrs R doesn't remember
everything that happened. Mrs R needed to complete a separate application form to send to
the insurers, as well as completing a direct debit form to allow the premiums to be collected.
The policy couldn't have been set up without this. And Santander has provided a copy of the
welcome letter and policy schedule which was sent to Mrs R when the policy started. So I
think it's likely that Mrs R did know she'd bought the PPI even if she can't remember doing
so now. I don't think it was added without her knowledge or consent.
As I'm not now upholding Mrs R's complaint on this basis, I've looked at the rest of the sale
to see if there is any other reason why the policy might have been mis-sold.
Santander would have given Mr and Mrs R a personal recommendation about the PPI, so it
needed to take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for them. Looking at Mr and Mrs
R's circumstances at the time (and especially at Mrs R's, as it was her who the policy
covered) I think that it was suitable for them. I say this because:
 Mrs R was eligible for the policy and wouldn't have been affected by any of the terms
which might have made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as
those related to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
 Mrs R was only entitled to statutory sick pay and redundancy pay. Mr and Mrs R
didn't have any savings. Mrs R was the main income earner in the household, so if
she hadn't been able to work they would have found it difficult to meet all of their
essential expenses. This means the PPI would have been useful for them;
 The cost of the policy was comparable to other policies on the market around the
same time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial
penalty. And I haven't seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs R.
It's possible that Santander didn't give Mr and Mrs R all the information it ideally should have 
done about the policy. Mrs R says the terms and benefits weren't explained properly. But 
even if Mr and Mrs R had got all the relevant information I don't think they would have acted 
differently and not bought the policy, because it was suitable for them in the way I've
described.
So I don't think Mr and Mrs R lost out as a result of anything Santander might have done
My final decision
I'm not upholding Mrs R's complaint, so it follows that Santander UK plc doesn't have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and the 
estate of Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman