DRN-3477413
The complaint
The estate of Mr B complains about Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limiteds 
(MBFS) decisions to lend to the late Mr B. 
For clarity, Ill only refer to the late Mr B or the estate throughout this decision.
What happened
The late Mr B entered into four hire purchase agreements between 2013 and 2016 to 
acquire four different cars. The finance was provided by MBFS for each of the four 
agreements. 
In January 2013, the late Mr B acquired a car under a 48 month hire purchase agreement 
with MBFS. The car cost around £27,000. Under the agreement, the late Mr B made a 
deposit payment of £5,000 and was required to make 48 payments of £293.57, followed by 
an optional final payment if he wanted to keep the car.
In January 2015, the late Mr B took the car back to the dealer and acquired a different car 
under a 48 month hire purchase agreement with MBFS. The car cost £27,017.26. Under the 
agreement, the late Mr B made a deposit payment of £2,111.72 and was required to make 
48 payments of £358.13, followed by an optional final payment of £10,850 if he wanted to 
keep the car. 
In February 2016, the late Mr B took the car back to the dealer and acquired a different car 
under a 48 month hire purchase agreement with MBFS. The car cost £28,210. Under the 
agreement, the late Mr B made a deposit payment of £331.01 and was required to make 48 
payments of £388.38, followed by an optional final payment of £14,000 if he wanted to keep 
the car. 
In December 2016, the late Mr B took the car back to the dealer and acquired a different car 
under a 48 month hire purchase agreement with MBFS. The car cost £24,597. Under the 
agreement, the late Mr B made a deposit payment of £32.79 and was required to make 48 
payments of £421.25, followed by an optional final payment of £11,375 if he wanted to keep 
the car. 
The estate raised a complaint with MBFS and complained that the agreements had been 
mis-sold to the late Mr B.
MBFS issued its response to the late Mr Bs complaint in October 2020. It said it had carried 
out appropriate checks when deciding to lend to the late Mr B and said there was no 
evidence to suggest any of the agreements had been mis-sold.
Unhappy with this, the estate referred the complaint to this service. The estate said the late 
Mr B had been provided with a number of finance agreements within short periods of time. It 
said when the agreements were taken out, optional covers such as GAP insurance and 
tyre/alloy insurance were also supplied. It also said the late Mr B was suffering with a 
number of medical conditions and didnt understand how the hire purchase agreements 
worked. It said the late Mr B thought he could hand back cars at any time, without 
understanding the financial implications. It said this had an unnecessary financial impact on 
the late Mr B personally. And it said it only became aware of what had been going on when 
the late Mr B asked the estate to help to sort out his finance agreement, after his health 
deteriorated and the late Mr B had to stop driving.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but she thought MBFS had made fair lending 
decisions when lending to Mr B for the three agreements she considered. She also said she 
didnt think MBFS had any reason to suspect that Mr B didnt understand the agreements he 
was entering into. 
The estate disagreed and said the dealer was proactive in trying to get the late Mr B to take 
out a new finance agreement by calling him nine months after he had just signed a new 
finance agreement. He said the dealer did this because the late Mr B was an easy target. He 
said he didnt believe MBFS had considered the late Mr Bs age or his mental capacity at the 
time he entered into the agreements.  
As the estate remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
The estate of the late Mr B isnt complaining about the agreement taken out in 2013. And the 
estate has raised a separate complaint about the optional extras the late Mr B agreed to take 
out alongside the hire purchase agreements. So I havent considered the agreement taken 
out in 2013 or the optional extras as part of this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that the estate of the late Mr B has 
raised a number of different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If 
I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think 
about it  but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide the late Mr Bs complaint. 
MBFS needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that MBFS needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was affordable for the late Mr B before providing it. 
In this case, I think there are two overarching questions that I need to answer in order to 
fairly and reasonably decide the late Mr Bs complaint. These two questions are: 
1. Did MBFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the late 
Mr B would be able to repay his loans sustainably?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
oIf not, would those checks have shown that the late Mr B wouldve been able 
to do so?
2.Did MBFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Did MBFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the late Mr B 
would be able to repay his loans sustainably? 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the amount lent was high, or the 
information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to repay. Ive carefully 
thought about what this means for the late Mr Bs case.
In this case, MBFS has demonstrated the checks it carried out by providing us with the 
information it obtained from the late Mr B before deciding to lend for each application. 
For each of the agreements, MBFSs checks included checking the late Mr Bs credit file. It 
noted his occupation as retired and also recorded that he was a tenant. It also had the late 
Mr Bs previous repayment history from each hire purchase agreement. 
In this case, I dont think the checks MBFS carried out were proportionate for any of the 
three agreements. This is because MBFS didnt check the late Mr Bs income to confirm 
whether the late Mr B had enough income to afford the agreements over the term 
sustainably and neither did it obtain any details about the late Mr Bs expenditure. I can see 
there was nothing concerning on the late Mr Bs credit file for any of the checks MBFS 
carried out. But I dont think this on its own, or even coupled with the repayment history on 
the earlier agreements, went far enough for MBFS to have reasonably believed that the late 
Mr B would be able to make the repayments in a sustainable manner, over the duration of 
the agreements.
In light of this, Ive gone on to consider whether I think proportionate checks would have 
shown the late Mr B would have been able to repay his loans sustainably.
Ive thought about what a proportionate check could look like considering the terms of the 
agreement. In this case, the agreements were due to last over four years, the purpose of the 
lending was for an asset and the repayments ranged from around £350 to £420. Given the 
amount of the monthly payments and that the payments were due to last for around four 
years each time an agreement was taken out, I think MBFS should have also asked for 
information about Mr Bs income and expenditure.
Weve obtained bank statements which demonstrate the late Mr Bs circumstances at the 
time he applied for each of the finance. To be clear, Im not saying that MBFS was required 
to obtain these before lending to the late Mr B. Instead, Ive reviewed the bank statements 
because I think the information they contain is what is needed to reconstruct what a 
proportionate check may have looked like. I also accept that if MBFS had obtained 
information from the late Mr B about his income and his expenditure at the time the 
agreements were taken out, this may have shown something different. However, in the 
absence of anything else from MBFS to demonstrate what any other checks would have 
shown, I think its reasonable to place considerable weight on the bank statements as an 
indication as to what the late Mr Bs circumstances likely were at the time.
Having reviewed the bank statements, they show that the late Mr B was receiving consistent 
payments into his account each month. These include payments from a pension provider 
and a state pension. The estate has said that pension payments shouldnt be included. 
However, given it was a monthly income the late Mr B was receiving, I see no reason why it 
shouldnt be included. Having calculated the late Mr Bs regular monthly contractual 
payments, which include payments for accommodation, utilities, communication providers 
and insurance payments, I can see that the late Mr B had sufficient disposable income even 
after the payments owed under the agreement were deducted. 
So Im satisfied that even if MBFS had carried out proportionate checks, it would have still 
been fair and reasonable for it to lend to the late Mr B. And I think the checks would have 
shown he was able to sustainably make the repayments owed under each of the 
agreements. This is further supported by the fact that the late Mr B didnt miss any payments 
and doesnt appear to have taken out any further borrowing to make any of the repayments 
owed under any of the agreements that MBFS provided to him.
Did MBFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?Ive thought very carefully about what the estate has said about the way in which the finance 
agreements were presented to the late Mr B. Having done so, I dont think MBFS have acted 
unfairly. Ill explain why.
The estate has mentioned the age of the late Mr B as a reason to why MBFS shouldnt have 
lent to the late Mr B. However, I wouldnt consider that a lender acted fairly and reasonably if 
it declined a lending application solely on the basis of a prospective borrowers age. Indeed, 
such a lending policy is likely to be unlawful. And so, Im satisfied that MBFS didnt act 
unfairly when it  refused to decline Mr Bs applications, on the sole basis his age at the time 
he entered the agreements.
Ive gone on to consider what the estate has said about the period of time the agreements 
were taken out over. The initial agreement Im considering was taken out in January 2015, a 
further agreement was by taken out in February 2016 and then the last agreement was 
taken out in December 2016. The estate has said that the dealer had placed a note on the 
late Mr Bs file to query with the late Mr B whether he wanted to take out a new agreement 
just nine months into his existing contract. It has said this showed that the late Mr B was an 
easy target.
Ive looked at the statement from the dealer and the types of cars Mr B was obtaining. 
Having done so, I find the statement from the sales manager to be plausible. Whilst I can 
see that the late Mr B did take out three agreements in quick succession, the sales manager 
has described why the late Mr B opted for a different car on each occasion. Having 
considered the reasons for why each model of the car was traded in by the late Mr B, I think 
the reasoning is persuasive. In addition, no further agreements were taken out by the late Mr 
B after December 2016, which would suggest the late Mr B was happy with the last car he 
acquired and had no reason to trade it in.
In addition, Ive looked at the agreements and can see that each agreement clearly explains 
the cost of the finance, the deposit, the monthly amount repayable and how the late Mr B 
can exit the agreement. And so, I think the late Mr B would have reasonably been aware of 
the financial implications of the agreements, given he had taken out four agreements with 
MBFS over a period of six years.
Finally Ive considered what the estate has said about the late Mr Bs understanding of the 
agreements. The estate has said the late Mr B was suffering from a number of medical 
conditions which impacted his understanding. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) provides 
guidance on things a firm needs to consider when thinking about whether a customer has 
the mental capacity to enter into an agreement. CONC 2.10.4 says:
A firm should assume a customer has mental capacity at the time the decision has to be 
made, unless the firm knows, or is told by a person it reasonably believes should know, or 
reasonably suspects, that the customer lacks capacity.
In this case, the statement from the sales manager confirms the late Mr B was known to the 
dealer for many years. It also details various jobs the late Mr Bs held during his life and the 
skills he had. The estate has confirmed that the late Mr B visited the dealer regularly to fill 
his time and confirmed the same information the dealer provided about aspects of the late 
Mr Bs life. As the estate has confirmed the information the sales manager has provided 
about the late Mr B is accurate, I think its fair to conclude that the dealer knew the late Mr B 
relatively well. 
The sales manager has said there were no signs of any vulnerability and at no point did he 
feel the late Mr B wasnt in control of his ability to make a decision. The estate has said the 
late Mr B was extremely vulnerable. However, the estate hasnt provided any supporting 
information to suggest the late Mr B lacked any mental capacity to enter into any of the 
agreements. The sales manager has said before the last agreement was entered into, it had a meeting 
with the late Mr Bs daughter as she was concerned that the dealer wasnt giving the late   
Mr B the best advice. The estate has said the late Mr B didnt have a daughter. But it has 
also said that the late Mr B would visit the dealer with a lady friend who suffered from 
dementia. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not, that the dealer was referring to the lady friend 
when it said the late Mr B visited the dealer with his daughter. But even if Im wrong, I dont 
think this makes a difference as the guidance set out in CONC 2.10.4 states that MBFS 
should assume the late Mr B had mental capacity at the time the decision has to be made. 
And theres no information to suggest the person that accompanied the late Mr B told MBFS 
that the late Mr B lacked capacity to enter into the last agreement. As MBFS didnt have a 
reason to suggest this, I dont think it acted unfairly when it assumed the late Mr B had the 
mental capacity to enter into the agreements.
Having considered the facts of the case, Im not persuaded that the late Mr B didnt have the 
mental capacity to enter into the agreements when he did. Or that he was extremely 
vulnerable. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman