DRN-4300297
The complaint
A company which Ill call T complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc behaved unreasonably 
when completing its banking checks.
The complaint is brought on Ts behalf by one of their directors, Mr T. 
What happened
T held a business account with Barclays which they had opened in 2009. 
T told us:
Barclays had requested some Know Your Customer (KYC) information which it had 
provided in August 2022.
T received a letter from Barclays dated 8 September, saying it needed more 
information. Mr T had called the bank but had been unable to get through  despite 
being on hold for over an hour, numerous times for around two weeks.
Barclays said it had sent them a repair letter telling them it needed more 
information, but they hadnt received this. 
On 7 February, without warning, Barclays closed their account causing them a 
financial loss from lost contracts, monthly payments being returned and from the 
directors having to call the bank. 
Barclays had behaved unreasonably, and they wanted the bank to apologise and pay 
them compensation for the losses caused to the business. 
Barclays told us:
It had carried out a review of Ts account and needed some information from the 
business. Some information had been provided in August 2022, but this wasnt 
sufficient, so it had written to T again in September 2023 to request this. 
As the required information wasnt received within the deadline it had set, it had 
closed Ts account. In doing so, it had acted in line with the terms and conditions and 
hadnt done anything wrong.  
In February 2023, when T had provided the required information, it had reopened the 
account. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought that Barclays had 
made T aware that it needed further information to complete its checks, and if it didnt 
receive this Ts account was at risk of closure. He said that T had told us that theyd received 
the warning from the bank, and whilst he acknowledged Ts comments about not being able 
to contact the bank by phone, it wasnt until five months later that Barclays had closed the 
companys account. So he thought T had sufficient time to provide the information the bank 
required, noted that Barclays had sent requests to the company via email, text, and post to 
make them aware of its intended actions. But the information still wasnt provided. 
T didnt agree. They said the bank had only said it may close their account so it was 
reasonable to assume it may not, particularly as they hadnt received any correspondence 
from the bank after the letter of 8 September.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Im sorry to disappoint T, but theres not much 
more that I can add to what our investigator has already said.
T says that their account was unfairly closed in February without warning. However, Im not 
persuaded thats the case. Ive seen that the bank contacted T a further seven times over a 
five-month period in addition to the letter of 8 September, and via a range of different 
methods including via text, post, email, and app. I recognise that T says it didnt receive any 
of these contacts from Barclays, however Ive seen evidence from the bank to show where 
and when these were sent. I think its also worth noting here that all the different methods of 
correspondence were sent to the contact details the bank held on file  which are the same 
as T provided this service to contact them. So Im satisfied the bank did try and contact T in 
a reasonable manner.
 
T also says that Barclays behaved unreasonably because it only gave a contact number on 
the letter of 8 September and no other contact method or specific request for information. 
They say they tried to call the bank for around two weeks but couldnt get through and also 
went into the branch, but they couldnt help. I recognise this would have been frustrating for 
T to not be able to get through on the phone when they wanted. However, Ive seen that the 
other correspondence sent to T did include other ways that they could provide the 
information to the bank  including self-addressed envelopes and online banking instructions 
 if T was unable to contact Barclays by phone. 
I also acknowledge there may have been delays in speaking to the bank and that T wanted 
more tailored correspondence. But its a commercial decision that Barclays is able to take on 
how it communicates with customers, and as T wasnt the only customer that the bank was 
requesting information from, I think its reasonable that the first contact was generic and that 
this was then followed up with a more tailored approach for T  albeit theyve told us they 
didnt get any of the other communication.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions for Ts account which say Barclays can close 
an account after giving two months notice or immediately if the bank is put in the position 
whereby it may break a law, regulation, code, or duty. As T didnt provide Barclays with the 
required information it needed to ensure it could meet its KYC obligations, I think it was 
reasonable that the bank gave T two months notice in November 2022 that it was going to 
close their account. And given that five months had passed since Barclays had notified T 
that it needed further information, I think the bank treated T fairly. 
I recognise that T says that they were caused inconvenience and a financial loss by 
Barclays decision to close their account. However, as I think that it was reasonable for the 
bank to close the account as it didnt receive the required information for it to undertake its 
checks, it follows that I dont think compensation is warranted for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman