DRN-3540821
The complaint
Ms G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont reimburse her for the money she lost 
when she fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. Ill recap the key 
points and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
In March 2021, Ms G was approached by her sister. Ms Gs sister had met somebody online 
and was led to believe that she needed to send them money, in order to prevent the person 
from being murdered by gangsters, from whom they had borrowed money. Ms Gs sister 
hadnt raised all of the money she needed, so she reached out to Ms G for help.
Ms G has said when her sister contacted her she was frantic and begging her to borrow the 
money. She said she thought what her sister was telling her sounded believable, so she 
agreed to help. But unfortunately her sister was dealing with fraudsters.
Ms G went ahead and made the following payments to account details that her sister 
provided, but which unknown to them at the time was an account the fraudster controlled;
10 March 2021 £2,000
10 March 2021 £5,800
11 March 2021 £6,000
Barclays fraud detection systems blocked the first payment, which Ms G attempted to make 
through her mobile banking, requiring her to contact Barclays to discuss the payment, before 
allowing it to be progressed. The other two payments were made by telephone banking, 
which again led to a conversation between Ms G and Barclays before the payments were 
sent. During each of these calls Ms G explained to Barclays that she was purchasing a car, 
and that the payments were towards that. For the first two payments Ms G told Barclays 
these were down payments for the car, which she told it shed seen and test driven, and she 
said she would be paying the remaining balance for the car the following day. When making  
the final payment, Ms G confirmed to Barclays that she had possession of the car. Ms G has 
said that in order to help facilitate the payments she took out a loan from Barclays for 
£11,500 and also received £1,600 from her sister. Barclays has said that Ms G stated to it 
that the purpose of the loan was for a car.
The scam came to light when Ms Gs sister went to visit an address she had been given by 
the fraudster, but was told that nobody by the fraudsters name lived at the address.
Ms G contacted Barclays to report what had happened. Barclays investigated Ms Gs fraud 
claim and considered its obligations to provide her with a refund. Barclays is a signatory of 
the Lending Standards Boards (LSB) Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this one 
in all but a limited number of circumstances.
Barclays issued its final response on 8 September 2021, not upholding Ms Gs complaint. In 
summary it didnt think Ms G had taken reasonable steps to check if the payment was 
genuine. Alongside this it said it had shown Ms G a warning before she completed the 
payments, but that it had been unable to provide an accurate scam warning as Ms G hadnt 
been truthful with it about what the transactions were for.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Ms G then brought her complaint to our service. One of 
our Investigators looked into things and didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint. In summary our 
Investigator explained she thought that, in view of Ms Gs loyalty to her sister, any warning 
Barclays could have given would have had a limited impact. She added that she didnt think 
Ms G had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for a genuine reason.
She said this because, although she recognised Ms G was immersed in the scam too (as a 
result of her sister keeping Ms G fully informed of her relationship with the fraudster as it 
developed), she thought there were enough red flags that ought to have led Ms G to have 
cause for concern. Specifically, because Ms G was aware that her sisters bank had warned 
her about the risk of this being a scam, and Ms Gs sister had also received a visit from the 
Police to discuss the potential of this being a scam.
Ms G didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary she said;
- Our investigator hadnt considered the Banking Protocol in her conclusion.
- The payments were out of character.
- Her sister was vulnerable, with unstable mental health and this in turn made Ms G 
vulnerable.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed over to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about whats happened to Ms G. Its clear that, by trying to help her 
sister, she has become the victim of a cruel and calculated scam that has led to her losing a 
considerable amount of money.
Im mindful that, in her response to our Investigators view, Ms G has said money was lent to 
her by Barclays that shouldnt have been, which she went on to send to the fraudsters. This 
didnt form part of Ms Gs initial complaint. If Ms G wishes to complain about a financial 
institutions lending decision, this is something she would have to take up with it in the first 
instance, to give it the opportunity to investigate. With this in mind, I havent made any 
findings about whether or not Barclays decision to lend was responsible.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Ive also thought about the LSBs voluntary CRM Code, which Barclays has signed up to and 
was in force at the time Ms G made the payments subject to this dispute. Alongside this, Barclays has a longstanding obligation to be on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions which might indicate their customer is at risk of financial harm from fraud.
The starting principle of the CRM Code is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is 
victim of an APP fraud except in a small number of circumstances. The exceptions to 
reimbursement relevant to this case are:
- The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
- The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
Ive thought about whether Ms G had a reasonable basis for believing that the payments she 
made were for a genuine purpose and/or the person or business with whom she transacted 
was legitimate.
While Im sorry to disappoint Ms G, having thought about all the circumstances of this 
complaint, Im not persuaded she had a reasonable basis for believing that she was making 
a legitimate payment. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute here that Ms G was aware of the developments in the relationship her 
sister had with the fraudster. It appears that Ms Gs sister kept her informed of how things 
progressed with the fraudster, including talking to her about the first, and subsequent 
occasions, the fraudster asked for money. Ms Gs sister discussed with her (and other 
members of her family) details of the reasons the fraudster gave for the requests, and the 
consensus across the family was that the requests for money were legitimate. So, Im 
mindful here that Ms G had a good understanding of the circumstances that her sister found 
herself in, at the time she reached out to her for support and when Ms G agreed to help.
But I do think there were things about the situation that ought reasonably to have caused  
Ms G some concern about the legitimacy of the requests for money;
- When the fraudster first asked Ms Gs sister for money, her sister had initially been 
horrified and questioned whether the person she had met online was a scammer. 
When I consider that the first request was for a relatively modest sum of money, I 
think it ought to have been a red flag to Ms G that her sister was now being asked to 
send thousands of pounds.
- Ms G was aware that her sister had been spoken to by both her bank and the Police, 
with her bank telling her sister that they were 100% sure that she was being taken 
advantage of and that she was the victim of a scam. Im persuaded that with this 
knowledge Ms G ought to have seriously questioned the legitimacy of the payment 
requests. This wasnt a scam where the fraudster was trying in some way to 
impersonate a bank, or the Police and had persuaded their victims to not trust people 
in authority. So where the bank and the Police, who I think its fair to say would be 
considered the professionals in these matters, have raised such serious concerns, 
that Ms G was aware of, I cant ignore that she moved past these concerns in 
sending the payments.
- Im conscious that, with the understanding Ms G had of the full circumstances of what 
was unfolding, some of the potential for her to step back and unbiasedly and 
objectively contemplate what her sister was asking her to do may have been 
reduced. After all, by the point she agreed to help her sister, she had already formulated the opinion that the need for the money was genuine. But I do think there 
was enough distance between Ms G and the fraudster himself to give Ms G the 
opportunity to question the motives of the request for money and the plausibility for 
the reasons the fraudster gave. I think the leap the fraudster made from requesting a 
modest amount of money to help with food/accommodation to being kidnapped by 
gangsters and requesting thousands of pounds was dubious to the point of being 
improbable. 
Overall, for the reasons explained, I dont think Ms G had a reasonable basis for belief when 
making the payments and is therefore not entitled to a full refund under the CRM code.
Ms G has explained to us that her sister was vulnerable, and this in turn has also made her 
vulnerable.
The CRM Code says that:
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered.
In these circumstances, the Customer should be reimbursed notwithstanding the exceptions 
to reimbursement, and whether or not the Firm had previously identified the Customer as 
vulnerable.
Ive thought carefully about Ms Gs submissions on this matter. Ive taken what shes said 
into account and accept that she was keen to protect her sisters mental health. But, on 
balance, Im not persuaded, when considering the particular circumstances of this case that 
Ms G wasnt able to protect herself against the scam. Ms G wasnt in direct contact with the 
fraudsters and Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that Ms G wasnt able to identify the 
risk.
Ive also thought about whether Barclays should share any responsibility for the loss and in 
doing so Ive assessed whether it met the standards required of it under the Code and its 
wider obligations to protect its customers from the risk of financial harm and whether it could 
have prevented the fraud. Ms G wasnt truthful with Barclays when discussing the nature of 
the payments she was making. As a result of this, I think she impeded the ability Barclays 
had to provide her with relevant warnings. But this, in and of itself, isnt enough for me to say 
Barclays has met its obligations, this is because banks ought to be aware that fraud victims 
are often persuaded by fraudsters to give banks cover stories when making payments.
But not withstanding that, in the individual circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded that 
any warning or intervention Barclays could have given at the time Ms G made the payments, 
wouldve had a material impact in preventing Ms G from proceeding with the payments. I say 
this because I think Ms G would have gone ahead with the payments no matter what. From 
everything Ive seen I think Ms G was determined to help her sister and that she would have 
moved past any warnings she was given, which I think is supported by her being undeterred 
and proceeding with the payments even though her sisters bank and the Police had given 
the clearest of indications that things might not be as they seem.
Im aware Ms G has said as part of its obligations Barclays ought to have invoked the 
banking protocol and this hadnt been considered by our Investigator. Im mindful that the 
banking protocol typically applies to payments that were made in branch, in situations when 
branch staff have concerns that a customer may be falling victim to a scam. Ms G didnt 
make these payments in branch, but in any event, given I think the answers she gave 
Barclays during her conversations with it, about the purpose of the payments being for a car, would have seemed quite plausible to Barclays, I dont think it shouldve had sufficient 
enough concerns over the phone to invoke the banking protocol.
In the circumstances of this case, for broadly the same reasons as Ive mentioned above, 
given how determined Ms G was to help her sister and given that she knew her sister had 
been spoken to by her bank and the police about this potentially being a scam, Im not 
persuaded invoking the banking protocol wouldve stopped Ms G from making the payments 
anyway.
Overall and on balance, for the reasons explained, I cant fairly conclude that Ms G had a 
reasonable basis for belief that she was making legitimate payments. I also dont conclude 
that Barclays has failed to meet its standards under the Code or its wider obligations to 
protect its customers from the risk of financial harm and it isnt therefore liable to refund     
Ms G.
Finally, Ive considered whether Barclays did all it could to try and recover the money Ms G 
lost, once she had reported the scam to it. From the evidence Ive seen, Barclays did contact 
the receiving bank when she raised the matter, but unfortunately the receiving bank told it 
that no funds remained. So I think Barclays has done what could reasonably have been 
expected of it to try to recover the money.
I dont intend any comments or findings Ive made in this decision to downplay or diminish 
the impact this scam has had on Ms G. I have a great deal of sympathy for Ms G being the 
victim of what was clearly a cruel scam that has had a significant impact on her and her 
family. But I can only compel Barclays to refund Ms G if it is responsible for the loss incurred, 
or if it has failed to meet its obligations under the CRM code, or its wider obligations to 
protect its customers from the risk of financial harm. For the reasons explained, having 
carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint, I can see no basis on which I can 
fairly say that Barclays should be held liable for the loss Ms G has sadly suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman