DRN-4277709
The complaint
Mrs H complains Capital One (Europe) plc hasnt dealt fairly with a dispute over payments 
made on her credit card account for the purchase of rare vinyl records.
What happened
Mrs H has a credit card account with Capital One, and her husband, Mr H, is an additional 
cardholder. Mr H was interested in a record for sale on an online marketplace and contacted 
the seller to negotiate a deal. The seller, who appeared to be based in Spain, said that he 
would only accept payment outside of the online marketplaces platform, via a Friends and 
Family payment made on a different online platform, P. He told Mr H this was because he 
had previously been scammed by a buyer in France.
Mr H agreed to make the payment in the way the seller requested, using his additional card 
on Mrs Hs account to pay the equivalent (when converted from euros) of £3,239.84 on 22 
April 2020. Mr H continued to discuss further purchases of specific records with the seller, 
resulting in him making further payments on the credit card, in the same fashion, for 
£3,260.03 on 18 May 2020, and £2,349.93 on 7 June 2020. Later, in August 2021, Mr H also 
paid a further £44.55 in respect of delivery charges relating to the three purchases, again via 
a Friends and Family payment.
There was a lengthy correspondence between the seller and Mr H between April 2020 and 
May 2022. I wont relate everything that happened as its not necessary to do so and the 
parties involved are aware of the history, but in summary the records failed to turn up with 
various excuses given by the seller for the delays. Mr H became suspicious and, after 
making enquiries, concluded the seller had used a false tracking number for a delivery and 
was using a fictitious name. Believing he had been scammed, he and Mrs H contacted 
Capital One, in May 2022, in an attempt to reclaim the funds.
Ultimately, Capital One said it was unable to help, stating it wasnt liable under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) because the payments had been made via the 
Friends and Family option on Ps platform. Mrs H complained about Capital Ones decision 
but it stood by its position. Dissatisfied with Capital Ones response, Mrs H referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent assessment.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought that Capital One had 
ultimately not been wrong to say that it couldnt help in obtaining a refund, but he gave a 
much more detailed explanation. He considered whether Capital One should have honoured 
a section 75 claim, charged back the payments or treated them as unauthorised, but 
ultimately took the view that neither of these avenues would have been successful.
On the matter of the section 75 claim our investigator shared Capital Ones view that making 
the payments via Ps Friends and Family option meant the necessary criteria for a section 
75 claim to be made were not in place. Specifically, our investigator concluded that making 
the payments in this way meant there were not the necessary arrangements in place 
between the creditor, Capital One, and the supplier (the record seller), nor were such 
arrangements contemplated by the creditor. This meant there was no debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement in place and a section 75 claim was invalid. Our investigator also noted 
that Mr H appeared to have been the purchaser of the records and not the account holder, 
Mrs H, and that this could also cause the debtor-creditor-supplier agreement to be invalid. 
When considering whether the payments to the seller could have been charged back under 
the Mastercard chargeback scheme, our investigator noted there were time limits imposed 
by Mastercard and that for all of the payments apart from the last one of £44.50, by the time 
Mrs H contacted Capital One it had been too late to charge back the payments. Our 
investigator thought it was unlikely a chargeback on the £44.55 payment would have been 
successful as the payment had been a personal payment rather than a payment for goods 
or services.
Finally, our investigator noted that although it was possible the seller had been perpetuating 
a scam, ultimately the payments had been authorised and Mrs H would be liable for them.
Our investigator also considered the matter of Capital Ones customer service. He concluded 
that although it may have been the case that Mr and Mrs H had to spend a lot of time making 
their case to Capital One, this wasnt down to any error on Capital Ones part and some level 
of inconvenience was always to be expected when raising a claim or complaint of this 
nature. Our investigator thought that really it was the sellers actions which had been the 
cause of any impact on Mr and Mrs H. Though he acknowledged there were some things 
Capital One could have done better, our investigator didnt think it was reasonable to ask it 
to take further action.
Mrs H asked to appeal against the investigators assessment and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will be greatly disappointing for Mrs H, but I agree with the general conclusions 
our investigator reached and Ill explain why.
When a person uses a credit card to buy something, there is no automatic obligation on their 
card issuer to refund them or help if something goes wrong with their purchase. However, 
there are some ways in which the credit card issuer may be able to help, via the dispute 
resolution system operated by the card scheme (chargeback), or because they may be 
required to honour a claim under section 75 of the CCA. Additionally, there are some 
scenarios where a business might have been expected to do more to help protect a 
customer from falling victim to a scam.
Should Capital One have done more to protect its customer from falling victim to a scam?
Taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Capital One should have been, 
fairly and reasonably, on the lookout for out of character and unusual transactions, as well 
as other indications that its customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud.
But, in this case, I cant see that Capital One would have had grounds to suspect at the time 
that the payments made by Mr H were related to a scam. After the initial payment, the 
payments went to a payee that C had paid before without reported incident. And, while not 
insignificant amounts, none of the payments were so large that their size alone ought to 
have caused Capital One concern. The payments were also spread out, with several weeks between them, so Capital One wouldnt have been able to identify a concerning pattern that 
might be consistent with certain kinds of fraud.
Overall, I dont think Capital One made a mistake by processing these payments without 
speaking to Mr or Mrs H. 
Should Capital One have attempted to reclaim the payments via the chargeback process?
On the matter of chargeback, our investigator concluded the three large payments Mr H 
made to the seller could not be disputed under the Mastercard chargeback scheme due to 
how long ago they had taken place when Mr and Mrs H contacted Capital One for help.  
The relevant card scheme, Mastercard, sets the rules about the types of situations and 
scenarios where a chargeback can be attempted. Capital One has to follow those rules. The 
rules say that a chargeback can be raised where goods have been purchased and have not 
been delivered, as here. They then go on to outline the window of time in which a 
chargeback must be raised, noting that this depends on whether the seller specified a 
delivery date. If no delivery date is specified, then a chargeback must be attempted within 
120 days of the payment being made. If a delivery date was specified then an extended 
window of time applies. Its unclear to me whether a delivery date was originally specified for 
any of the three records. It seems unlikely for the second or third records as, based on 
Mr Hs email correspondence, these were only to be sent once the seller had received them 
from a third party. It is less clear for the first record, however the arrangements between 
Mr H and the seller appear to have been quite informal and I have not seen a specific date 
mentioned (at least to begin with) in the correspondence which has been sent to us. On 
balance, I dont think a specific delivery date was agreed from the outset.
In light of this, it seems unlikely to me that any chargebacks could have been attempted by 
Capital One  because when Mr and Mrs H got in touch for help, the window of time in which 
to do so had long since passed. But even if thats not right, our investigator made another 
important point, which is that all the payments, including the £44.55 delivery charge, were 
made via Ps Friends and Family facility. The scheme rules treat Friends and Family 
payments as money transfers (or personal payments, as our investigator described them) 
rather than purchases of goods, and they are ineligible for chargeback protections which 
would apply to purchases, such as those which Ive described above. So ultimately, 
regardless of how long it took for Mr and Mrs H to contact Capital One, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Capital One not to attempt chargebacks against any of the payments.
Should Capital One have honoured Mrs Hs claim under section 75 of the CCA?
This leaves the matter of a potential claim under section 75 of the CCA. Section 75 of the 
CCA allows a person to claim against their credit card provider, so long as certain conditions 
are met, in respect of a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods 
theyve purchased using the credit card.
One of the conditions that needs to be met in order for Mrs H (as the debtor under the credit 
agreement) to be able to make a claim against Capital One under section 75 of the CCA, is 
that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement.
In Mrs Hs case, there are two key issues which our investigator identified which are relevant 
to the DCS agreement. Firstly, the involvement of P and its Friends and Family payment 
option. Secondly, the fact that Mr H appeared to be the person buying the records, and not 
Mrs H. 
For there to be a DCS agreement in place for the record purchases, the payments need to have been made under pre-existing arrangements between the creditor (Capital One) and 
the supplier (the record seller) or in contemplation of future arrangements between them. I 
will just refer to these both together as arrangements. The debtor (Mrs H) also needs to 
have a claim against the supplier in respect of breach of contract or misrepresentation.
The typical example of arrangements between a creditor and supplier is where the creditor 
has made a specific agreement with the supplier that the supplier can accept its credit cards. 
Under these arrangements the creditor agrees to pay the supplier on presentation of a credit 
card by the debtor, the supplier agrees to provide the goods or services to the debtor, and 
the debtor agrees to repay the credit provided by the creditor. 
In practice however, things are often more complicated than this and various intermediaries 
can be involved between the creditor and the supplier.
The courts have considered the question of what constitutes arrangements where 
intermediaries are involved. The Court of Appeal, in the case of Office of Fair Trading v 
Lloyds & others [2006] (the OFT case), concluded that arrangements do not need to be 
direct between the creditor and the supplier, for them to be of the kind required to bring a 
section 75 claim against the creditor. The Court considered the word arrangements as 
used in the relevant part of the CCA was to be construed loosely, observing that not to do so 
would result in some consumers being disadvantaged. The Court was dealing with the 
emergence of a particular type of payment intermediary  merchant acquirers  but the 
same principles can be applied to more recent developments in how card payments are 
made via third parties. And the OFT case shows that commercial practices with respect to 
card payments were evolving even as early as the mid-2000s, and suppliers were being 
recruited to the card schemes by intermediaries. Further development has occurred since 
then and the number of intermediaries has grown, catalysed by the growth of new 
technologies and the popularity of e-commerce. Payment facilitators, for example, are now 
an established part of the payments industry and the rules of the card schemes have 
changed to accommodate these developments.
The more recent High Court case of Steiner v National Westminster Bank plc [2022] (the 
Steiner case) has provided further comment on the concept of arrangements. In this case 
the judge reasoned that when a creditor made an agreement with a customer in relation to a 
card issued by the creditor to that customer, then the agreement was made under the card 
scheme, and this constituted arrangements between the creditor and the other members of 
the scheme. Therefore, if a supplier was already a member of the card scheme, the 
agreement was made under pre-existing arrangementsbetween the [creditor] and the 
supplier. The creditor was also aware that other suppliers were likely to join the card 
scheme in the future, so the agreement was also made in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between the creditor and any supplier who subsequently joined the card 
scheme.
Ive considered carefully how all of this can be applied to the circumstances of Mrs Hs case. 
Mr H didnt pay the seller of the records directly. The seller had said he would, in essence, 
only accept payment via Ps Friends and Family facility, claiming to have been scammed 
by a buyer in the past when using other payment options. Mr H agreed to make his 
payments in this way and it appears his additional card was linked to an account with P as a 
funding source. When he chose to pay the seller via Ps Friends and Family option, his 
additional card was charged and the funds were transferred to the sellers account with P. 
The key question is whether, in this scenario, there were relevant arrangements between 
Capital One and the seller of the records.
I note that P makes it clear at the point of payment that the Friends and Family option for 
sending money is not intended for buying goods or services. Ps own Buyer Protection does not apply when money is sent in this way and, in fact, Ps User Agreement prohibited 
Mr H from paying for goods or services in this way.
I think, in principle, arrangements of the required kind between the creditor and supplier can 
be held to exist where payments are made via an intermediary like P. Its reasonable to 
conclude that these arrangements exist where a credit card is used to pay for goods or 
services in a way which is accommodated by the relevant card scheme and the intermediary 
themselves. However, I think it is difficult to conclude that this should extend to specific 
methods of payment which are not intended for buying goods or services and, as in this 
case, are indeed prohibited for that purpose. I dont think it would be reasonable to say that a 
payment of this type was made under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of 
future arrangements, between the creditor and supplier, when it is not a normal way of 
paying for goods or services, and is not allowed by the payment intermediary involved.
Because the necessary arrangements were not in place, Im unable to conclude the 
payments to the seller in this case were made under a valid DCS agreement and therefore I 
cannot see how Mrs H would have had a valid claim against Capital One under section 75 of 
the CCA.
Earlier in this decision I observed that the debtor (Mrs H) needed to have a claim against the 
supplier in respect of a breach of contract or misrepresentation, in order for her to have a 
claim against Capital One under section 75 of the CCA. Our investigator identified this as 
another potential obstacle to the claim, and I think it is worth developing this point further.
On the face of it, it doesnt appear that Mrs H has any transactional relationship with the 
seller. She had not agreed to buy anything from him or entered a contract with him, so its 
difficult to see how she could have a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation 
against him. It is Mr H who potentially has a claim against the seller, not Mrs H. Our 
investigator thought, on balance, that this was not an issue. He considered that, perhaps, the 
purchases were joint purchases by Mr and Mrs H and so she could be considered a party to 
the various deals. The correspondence does not support that conclusion in my opinion. To 
me the email records indicate these were purchases contemplated, initiated and executed by 
Mr H in connection with an interest he has in records. I do not think these were joint 
purchases and, because Mrs H would not have a claim herself against the seller, she would 
have no claim against Capital One under section 75 of the CCA either.
Ultimately this doesnt matter as there is no valid DCS agreement due to the payments 
having been made via Ps Friends and Family option, but it is another reason why Mrs H did 
not have a valid claim against Capital One in respect of the purchases. It follows that 
Capital One did not act unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mrs Hs claim under section 75 
of the CCA. 
I dont lack in sympathy for Mr and Mrs H. It is apparent now that Mr H was deceived into 
paying thousands of pounds to a person for valuable items which they probably had no 
intention of providing. However, I am considering a complaint against Capital One, not the 
person behind the scam, and there are only limited sets of circumstances in which 
Capital One would be expected to provide redress. This, unfortunately, is not one of them.
Finally, our investigator considered the level of customer service provided by Capital One in 
connection with Mrs Hs claim. He concluded it could have been better but ultimately that the 
underlying cause of the impact on Mrs H was the scammers actions. I agree that 
Capital One could have handled the claim better. It appeared at times to be confused about 
the payments which had been made and its explanations lacked detail. It was also 
sometimes difficult to get hold of. Considering the complexity of the claim and the amount of 
evidence submitted to support it, I think its understandable that things took a bit longer. Like our investigator I dont think its necessary to require Capital One to provide compensation in 
respect of the way it handled the claim, in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman