DRN-4297868
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the way National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) dealt with his 
request for money back. 
What happened
Mr D tells us he purchased an airline ticket in February 2023 using rewards hed earned, and 
he paid around £105 for landing charges using the linked account. This account was with a 
financial service provider Ill call V. When he arrived at the airport, he tells us the airline 
refused to issue boarding passes, so he had to buy a new ticket for around £680 using his 
NatWest debit card. 
Mr D complained to the airline saying hed been a member of the rewards programme for 
around 15 years, and he requested a refund. He also requested the rewards were recredited 
to his account. Mr D contacted NatWest to ask for his money back because he says the 
airline committed fraud and theft. NatWest declined the claim because it couldnt see there 
was any sort of breach of contract. Mr D was able to use the airline ticket he paid for using 
his NatWest debit card. It also couldnt see the specific airline ticket Mr D used had been 
paid by other means because there were two separate bookings. It suggested Mr D speak to 
V. Mr D said hed closed his account with V, but NatWest said he could still raise the claim 
with it. 
Mr D complained and referred his complaint to our service. He contacted us to say thered 
been a fraudulent transaction on his debit card. Hed been going back and forth with 
NatWest for three weeks and he was unhappy hed been charged twice for the same flight 
and had to speak to so many people. He said NatWest could have put a stop on things and 
disputed the transaction with the airline. One of our investigators looked into things but didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said there was no valid chargeback reason code NatWest could 
have used because Mr D received the service he paid for. 
Mr D didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to resolve 
complaints quickly and with minimum formality. I want to assure Mr D and NatWest that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this.
For the avoidance of doubt, this decision is only focussing on the complaint that Mr D 
referred to our service. Ive listened to the call he had with one of our agents when setting up 
the complaint. Im therefore considering whether NatWest has acted fairly and reasonably in 
the way it handled Mr Ds request for getting his money back. In situations like this, NatWest 
can consider raising a chargeback. 
The chargeback process provides a way for a card issuer to ask for a payment to be 
refunded in certain circumstances. The chargeback process is subject to rules made by the 
relevant card scheme. Its not a guaranteed way of getting money back. 
While its good practice for a card issuer to attempt to chargeback where certain conditions 
are met and theres some prospect of success, there are grounds or dispute conditions set 
by the relevant card scheme that need to be considered. If these are not met, a chargeback 
is unlikely to succeed. 
Im sorry to hear Mr D had to pay for the flight a second time when he was unable to obtain 
boarding passes using the original booking made using his account with V. Hes said he 
needed to get back to UK urgently and he felt like he was held to ransom by the airline. I 
cant imagine how that must have made him feel. 
However, I need to point out that something going wrong with a merchant wont always lead 
to a successful claim.
Cardholders can raise chargeback disputes for various reasons such as goods or services 
not as described or defective; goods or services not provided; credits not being processed, 
amongst other reasons. But in this case, its not in dispute Mr D received the service he paid 
for. I therefore dont think raising a dispute for any of those sorts of conditions would have 
had any prospect of success. 
There are fraud related chargeback disputes that can be raised as well, such as for there 
being no cardholder authorisation; when merchants are on certain card scheme databases; 
or for when counterfeit/stolen cards are used. Its not in dispute Mr D authorised the 
transaction, albeit he said he had no other choice. Ive not seen anything to suggest any of 
the fraud related dispute reasons would have been valid. I dont think raising a dispute for 
any of these reasons would have had any prospect of success either. 
Finally, there are things that can be done when the transaction has been paid by other 
means. But Mr D made two separate bookings, albeit one of them he said was made 
because he had no other choice. I dont think thered have been grounds to dispute the 
transaction as having been paid by other means. It was ultimately a new booking Mr D 
made. Ive not seen any other conditions that may have helped Mr D.
Therefore, while I sympathise with the situation, I dont think NatWest was wrong to direct 
Mr D back to V. He paid for something using his account with V that he was unable to use. I 
appreciate Mr D had a few weeks of back and forth with NatWest and that he had to repeat 
himself and talk to many different agents. I imagine this was frustrating for him. But based on 
what Ive said above, I dont find there are grounds to say that NatWest has acted unfairly by 
not pursuing the claim. Its limited to what it can do in these situations, and it has to follow 
the rules set by the relevant card scheme. While I know Mr D will be disappointed, I make no 
directions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman