DRN-2423061
The complaint
Ms S complains about a fee Your Money Back Limited (YMB) has said she owes to it, for its 
representation, in respect of claims for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI).  
What happened
Ms S entered into an agreement with YMB, for it to act on her behalf, in relation to claims 
made for mis-sold PPI. 
YMB did undertake work on Ms S behalf. As part of this work, YMB contacted a lender Ms S 
had a mortgage with previously and raised a claim for mis-sold mortgage PPI. The lender 
responded  noting Ms S would receive a pay-out for the mis-sale.
YMB then wrote to Ms S highlighting the successful claim and explaining that this meant a 
pay-out of £15,981.71 from the lender.
YMB it said that because it represented Ms S when dealing with this claim she now owed it a 
fee for the work it had carried out. YMB said the fee Ms B needed to pay was £3,835.61. 
This was 20% of the figure awarded by the lender, plus VAT.
But Ms S didnt think the £3,835.61 she was being charged was correct. She said she had 
agreed for YMB to represent her, and to pay the successful fee of 20%, plus VAT. However, 
Ms S said the mortgage in this instance, and the PPI alongside it, were taken out in joint 
names. So, she was actually only entitled to half of the £15,981.71 that would be paid out. 
Given this, Ms S didnt feel YMB should be basing the fee she owed to it on the total refund 
of £15,981.71. But, instead, it should only be charging its fee based on Ms S half  the part 
it was authorised to work on, and charge for. Ms S highlighted no authorisation had been 
given for YMB to handle the claim on the joint account holders behalf. 
So, Ms S said the fee due to YMB should have been £1,787.65  not £3,835.61.
YMB didnt agree. It said Ms S had signed a letter of authority, agreeing to its fees, for any 
successful claim, including for a claim on mis-sold PPI in relation to this particular account. It 
said it only needed Ms S agreement to look into the claim. It said as Ms S was a signatory 
on the joint mortgage account it didnt need authorisation from the joint account holder too.
YMB also noted it was entitled to charge its fee based on the full settlement amount received 
 this being £15,981.71. It noted a significant sum of money had been paid to Ms S based 
on its work  that would not have been received if it werent for it.
Ms S payed the full fee YMB had said was owed  £3.835.61. This was because she was 
concerned what would happen if she didnt pay the fee being demanded of her. To put the 
matter right, Ms B says she should be refunded the £1,787.65 she feels she has overpaid.
Because Ms S remained unhappy with YMBs position on the matter, she referred her 
complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and felt it should be upheld. He said the details of 
the success fee YMB would charge (20% plus VAT) were clear in the terms Ms S agreed to. 
But, that YMB had calculated its fee incorrectly.
Our investigator said YMB had only received authorisation to act on behalf of Ms S, and no 
one else. The signed letter of authority didnt include any form of joint signature or 
agreement for YMB to represent both Ms S and the joint account holder. So, our investigator 
said YMB should only be charging Ms S a fee based on her half of the successful claim. This 
meant refunding Ms S an amount of £1,787.65, plus 8% interest on this amount  from the 
date the invoice was paid, until the date of settlement.
Ms S agreed with our investigators opinion. But YMB didnt agree. In summary, it said Ms S 
was an authorised signatory on the joint account, and therefore it could pursue the 
successful joint claim, and charge a success fee on this full amount without the joint account 
holders agreement. It noted the lender involved with this mortgage would not have written to 
it, in relation to both parties to the mortgage, if it wasnt authorised to act for both account 
holders.
YMB also noted it had discussed the matter with Ms S on the phone, and this referenced 
Ms S and the other account holder. 
Our investigator responded to this and said that even if Ms S is a signatory for both account 
holders in relation to the mortgage and PPI account, it didnt mean YMB had authority to 
charge Ms S a fee which included a successful amount awarded to someone else.
As YMB didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Ive considered the letter of authority Ms S completed, when instructing YMB to act on her 
behalf. And, I can see that Ms S provided authorisation for YMB to represent her in relation 
to any PPI mis-sale claims. So, Im satisfied YMB were able to charge Ms S a fee, for the 
work it did for her  in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement she signed.
Ms S doesnt dispute that  and is happy to pay the fee of 20% plus VAT, for her part of the 
successful claim YMB assisted her with. But, as above, Ms S feels YMB has incorrectly 
calculated its success fee using the total redress provided by the lender on the successful 
claim  when only half of these funds are actually due to her. 
Considering the letter of authority Ms S provided to YMB, I can see there are no further 
signatures on the letter of authority to allow YMB to act on behalf of anyone else but Ms S. 
So, Im satisfied YMB are only able to work on behalf of, and therefore charge Ms S a fee, 
based on the work it did for her  and on the successful funds she is entitled to. It cant 
charge her based on anything else  it doesnt have the authority to act in relation to any 
other funds. YMB has said that when it discussed the matter on the phone with Ms S, there was mention 
of the joint account holder too. And, YMB has said that as a joint account holder Ms S was 
able to sign in relation to representation for the whole mortgage and mis-sold PPI. So, it is 
entitled to request its fee based on the whole refund due from the lender. 
I dont agree. Ms S may have been a joint signatory to the mortgage. But, it doesnt 
necessarily follow that when dealing with an unrelated party, YMB, in relation to claims being 
made for mis-sale, Ms S is able to, or intending to, provide authority to act on behalf of her, 
and anyone else in connection to the mortgage and PPI sold. As above, Ms S only provided 
authorisation for YMB to act on her behalf  no one else.
YMB has said the lender wouldnt have written to it, based on the whole mortgage account, if 
it wasnt authorised to deal with the whole account. But I cant comment on the lenders 
actions here. Instead, I can only look at the actions of YMB.
From the information provided to me, Ms S is only entitled to half of the £15,981.71, and 
YMB were only authorised to act in relation to this half too. And therefore, the success fee 
Ms S agreed to, should be based on that half. This means the correct success was YMB 
would be due from Ms S is £1,785.65. And that Ms S has currently overpaid YMB by 
£1,785.65. 
Putting things right
Given this, Im satisfied YMB should only charge its fee, based on Ms S successful claim  
and the redress actually due to her. Im aware Ms S paid the full invoice, rather than just her 
half. So, YMB need to provide Ms S with a refund of £1,787.65, plus 8% interest on this 
amount  from the date the invoice was paid, until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that Your Money Back Limited should refund Ms S an amount of 
£1,787.64. Your Money Back Limited should also pay 8% interest, simple per annum, on this 
amount  from the date Ms S paid the invoice, until the date of settlement.
If Your Money Back Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms S how much its taken off. It should also 
give Ms S a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman