DRN-3850808
The complaint
Ms D complains that Phoenix Life Limited has failed to fairly calculate the value of her 
pension savings when she asked that they be transferred to another provider.
What happened
Ms D held pension savings with Phoenix. On 29 January 2021 Phoenix received a request 
from another provider for the transfer of Ms Ds pension savings to that firm. But Ms Ds 
pension savings with Phoenix were subject to valuable guarantees, so Phoenix was required 
to write to Ms D to explain the pension benefits she would be giving up, and provide her with 
a period of 14 days to reconsider her request.
Phoenix wrote to Ms D as soon as it received her transfer request and sent her the 
discharge forms that she would need to complete. It also provided her with an indicative 
value for her pension savings, but explained that the value would be recalculated before the 
transfer payment was made. Ms D returned the forms promptly, and Phoenix received them 
on 5 February 2021.
Phoenix says that the return of the forms should have started the 14-day period before 
Ms Ds pension savings could be transferred. So it says that Ms Ds pension savings should 
have been sent to the new provider on 19 February. But the actual payment wasnt made 
until 4 March. So Phoenix accepts that it caused a delay in Ms Ds transfer. But, in line with 
its normal approach, Phoenix backdated the value of Ms Ds pension investments to the date 
that the transfer request was first received  29 January 2021.
Ms Ds pensions investments benefitted from the addition of an annual bonus. The 
anniversary date for her pension plan fell on 26 February. Due to the processing delays Ive 
mentioned above, Ms Ds pension plan still appeared to be live on Phoenixs systems at that 
date. So it wrote to her providing her annual statement and showing an increase in the value 
of her pension savings amounting to approximately £2,800. But since the transfer value was 
backdated, the additional value didnt form part of the transfer that Phoenix sent to the new 
provider.
When Ms D first complained to Phoenix it accepted that it had caused a delay to the transfer, 
and that it had failed to address Ms Ds concerns in a timely manner. So it offered her £150 
for the inconvenience shed been caused. And it said that it would write to her new pension 
provider to determine whether the late transfer had caused any investment losses. Ms D 
didnt accept that offer  she thought that Phoenix should have calculated the value of her 
pension savings as at the actual date the monies were transferred. So it should have 
included the additional bonus in its calculations.
Ms Ds complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. Although there was 
nothing specific in the terms and conditions of Ms Ds pension plan, he accepted that it was 
Phoenixs normal practice for a transfer value to be calculated as at the date the request was 
received. So he didnt think the additional amount should have formed part of the transfer 
payment. Our investigator thought that the compensation Phoenix had offered for Ms Ds 
inconvenience was reasonable, and he established that the late transfer had caused an 
investment loss of £19.13. So he thought that Phoenix should now pay both aspects of the 
compensation in order to settle the complaint.
Phoenix accepted the investigators findings, and agreed to pay both the compensation for 
the inconvenience and for the investment loss to Ms D. But Ms D didnt agree with the 
assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Ms D and by Phoenix. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Ms Ds pension plan was taken out in 1985. So the applicable terms and conditions were 
written almost 40 years ago, and therefore dont anticipate many of the pensions transfer 
arrangements that are now common. But I think it is important to note that, whilst the lack of 
information about the arrangements for a transfer of benefits doesnt support the approach 
Phoenix has taken, nor does it preclude it. So I think it is right that I should decide this 
complaint, in line with my statutory powers, on the basis of what I think is fair and 
reasonable.
It is always important, when dealing with a transfer request, that a business values the 
pension savings at a fair point in time. With the potential for delays in the receipt of 
paperwork, or the need for additional information, Phoenix says that its normal approach is 
to treat the effective date of a transfer as being the date that a request is received. That 
seems to me to be a reasonable approach  and ensures that all consumers who are 
requesting a transfer are treated equally without being subject to the vagaries of investment 
price movements following any processing delays.
So I dont think it was unreasonable for Phoenix to use the value of Ms Ds pension savings 
on the date it first received the transfer request as the basis for the transfer.
Due to the processing delays, Ms Ds plan remained active on Phoenixs systems past its 
normal anniversary date. So around that time Ms D was sent an updated statement showing 
the addition of a further years growth. So I can understand why Ms D thinks that, by the time 
her pension savings were actually transferred, they were worth more than the transfer value.
But, as I explained earlier, my aim if something had gone wrong would be to put Ms D back 
into the position she would have been if that error hadnt occurred. Here, Phoenix has 
already told us that it caused a delay in making the transfer payment. It says that transfer should have been completed by 19 February  allowing for 14 days to elapse following its 
receipt of Ms Ds completed transfer paperwork.
So, even if I accepted that Phoenix should have calculated the transfer value at the date the 
transfer was made (which for the avoidance of doubt I dont), I would expect the value to 
have been set as at 19 February  the date the transfer should have completed. And a 
transfer at that date would also not have benefitted from the annual increase that was due 
on 26 February.
It is unfortunate that Ms Ds expectations were raised by the annual statement that was 
issued whilst the transfer was being processed. But I havent seen anything that makes me 
think she made any irrevocable financial commitments as a result of the increase that 
statement showed. On balance I dont think that Ms D was entitled to receive the annual 
increase to her pension savings. The transfer date was reasonably set as the date that 
Phoenix received the transfer request. And even if I thought the date should be later, I think 
the transfer should have been completed before her policy anniversary.
Ms Ds transfer was delayed by around two weeks. So it is right that I take account of any 
changes in the price of the investments that Ms D made once the transfer had been 
completed. Her new provider has calculated that the loss Ms D was caused as a result of the 
delay amounted to £19.13. I am pleased to see that Phoenix has agreed to pay that 
compensation to her. 
There is no doubt that the delay Phoenix caused, and the subsequent information that Ms D 
received about her pension transfer value, gave rise to a degree of inconvenience for her. 
I think that the offer Phoenix has already made, a payment of £150, is in line with what 
I would expect in circumstances such as these.
Putting things right
I think that the offers already made by Phoenix, to compensate Ms D for her inconvenience 
and her investment losses are reasonable. So Phoenix should now pay the following to 
Ms D;
£150 in respect of the inconvenience Ms D has been caused.
£19.13 to reflect the investment losses caused by the delayed transfer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ds complaint and direct Phoenix Life Limited to put 
things right as detailed above, and in line with its previous offers.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman