DRN-2594182
The complaint
Mr C complains about the charges he incurred for two international fund transfers. He says 
HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt inform him of the charges before making the transfers. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
Mr C made two international fund transfers from his HSBC bank accounts on 24 and 27 
October. The receiving bank account was also in Mr Cs name. HSBC applied a £4 charge 
for each transfer at the time they were made. A further charge, of about £15, was then later 
applied to both transfers. Mr C complained to HSBC about this saying they didnt inform him 
of the additional £30 in charges when making the transfers. He wanted this refunded. 
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. They said they could only tell Mr C about their charges in 
advance of a payment being made as they dont know which intermediary bank(s) may be 
used or the other banks charging policy. So, they set out what charge they will apply and 
explain what will happen with any other fees depending on the charging option selected. 
Having reviewed the transfers, HSBC confirmed Mr C had opted to pay all the fees  and 
provided a screenshot to show he was advised that charges applied by the beneficiary bank, 
or any other bank used, would be debited from his account. HSBC found there to be no error 
on their part as the charges had been applied correctly and in line with the account terms. 
The complaint was referred to our service but our investigator didnt think HSBC had acted 
unfairly. She said the account terms explain additional charges may be applied by 
intermediary and receiving banks, and Mr C agreed to pay these fees when making the 
transfers online. She also explained that she wouldnt expect HSBC to be able to show all 
other fees as they wont know the payment route the transfer(s) will take or the applicable 
charges from other banks. 
Mr C disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Cs dissatisfaction at finding out that hed been charged about £15 for each 
transfer in addition to the £4 HSBC charges. I appreciate the charge(s) came as a surprise 
to him. But, what I must consider here is whether HSBC acted fairly and in line with the 
account terms by applying the charges. I know this isnt the outcome Mr C is hoping for but, 
for the reasons Ill explain, I think they have. 
The account terms say:
Sending money outside the UK or in a foreign currency within the UK
If we send money outside the EEA, we may use an intermediary bank. The 
intermediary and the bank receiving the money may apply their own charges. This 
could include payments sent through, or to, another HSBC bank. Youll only have to 
pay these charges if you tell us you want to pay all the charges when you ask us to 
make the payment. 
Im satisfied the account terms clearly set out that other charges may be applied by an 
intermediary or the receiving bank. And that the account holder (payer) will only pay these 
charges if they agree to do so when making the transfer. 
When making the transfers, Mr C selected the charging option I want to pay all the fees. 
And below this, it explained:
HSBC Bank (UK) fees (shown on the next screen), any fees applied by the payees 
bank and any other bank(s) used to send the payment will be deducted form your 
account. 
I think this sufficiently explains that the payer will not only pay the HSBC fees, but also any 
other fees applied by the receiving bank and any other (intermediary) bank that is used to 
facilitate the transfer. And that the only fees that will be shown (on the next screen) will be 
the HSBC fees.
It follows, given Mr C agreed to pay all the fees when making the transfers, that I consider 
HSBC has acted in line with his instructions and the accounts terms by applying the charges 
to his accounts. 
Mr C however says HSBC werent transparent in disclosing the other charges before he 
made the transfers as he was only told about the £4 fee. And that HSBC ought to know the 
intermediary(s) they will use to transfer money to other countries and the associated costs. 
He therefore argues that HSBC should be in a position to disclose these charges or, at the 
very least, give an indicative amount of what theyll likely be based on past transactions. 
Ive carefully considered the points raised by Mr C and I can understand why hed want this 
information before making a transfer. But I dont think that HSBC can know in advance 
exactly how much each intermediary or receiving bank might charge for their services at any 
given time  particularly as, like any provider of a service, they can be open to change. And, 
while I appreciate Mr C thinks HSBC could at least provide an estimate of the charges, if 
they did this it could lead to problems whereby expectations are mis-managed due to the 
costs being higher than what was quoted. The intermediary and receiving bank charges 
arent within HSBCs control and so I can understand why they dont provide estimates of 
them. 
Mr C has also suggested that HSBC couldve contacted him to obtain his acceptance of the 
additional changes before completing the transfer. And that by not disclosing the charges or 
informing him of what they might be, they couldve been of any value  for example, £1,000. 
I appreciate Mr Cs views on this but HSBC did obtain his agreement to pay the charges 
before the transfers went ahead. And obtaining further confirmation when the charges are 
known could cause delays in the transfer of funds and potentially have wider implications. I 
can also only consider what happened in respect of the two transfers Mr C made. So, 
although Ive noted his point about the risk of the charges being considerably higher, I cant 
hold HSBC responsible for something that didnt happen. I know Mr C will be disappointed but I dont think HSBC has acted unfairly or outside the 
account terms here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman