DRN-2543759
The complaint
Miss M complains that QBE UK Limited mishandled a claim on her taxi insurance policy.
 
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one insurance 
company or other regulated financial firm at a time. Where it is a complaint about a claim on 
an insurance policy, we deal with it as a complaint against the insurance company that was 
responsible for dealing with that claim.
Miss M had a minibus taxi. For the year from April 2017, she had a taxi insurance policy 
under which QBE was responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to QBE, I include 
claims-handlers and others for whose actions I hold QBE responsible.
On 27 February 2018, Miss M and a third party taxi driver were involved in a rod traffic 
incident. He made a claim that she had hit his vehicle. 
Before Miss M renewed her policy with QBE in April 2018, she complained to QBE that there 
hadnt been any collision or damage to the third partys vehicle. QBE wrote a final response 
dated 2 May 2018. It said it hadnt made a decision about liability.
In November 2018, QBE settled the third partys claim. 
Miss M renewed her policy with QBE in April 2019.
In April 2020, Miss M complained to QBE that it had settled the claim wrongly and without 
telling her. QBE wrote a final response dated 13 May 2020. It accepted that it shouldve 
done more to investigate the claim and to communicate with Miss M. It offered to pay her 
£200.00. Later QBE reinstated Miss Ms no claims bonus.
Miss M brought her complaint to us in June 2020. By September 2020 QBE had made an 
offer to do as follows:
pay Miss M £200.00;
to mark the claim as non-fault;
based on that, re-calculate the premiums for 2018 and 2019 and to refund the 
overpayment of each of those premiums totalling £1,100.80 (which Miss M received 
on 8 September 2020);
add simple interest to each refund at a yearly rate of 8% from the date of its payment 
to 8 September 2020.
Our investigator thought this was fair given the circumstances of the complaint.
Miss M disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
QBE's offer of £200.00 compensation is insulting. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most motor insurance policies, Miss Ms policy with QBE contained a term allowing it to 
deal with the defence or settlement of any claim against her. The policy term was as follows:
We will handle, oversee and shall have full discretion in the conduct of any claim 
and shall be permitted to take over and deal with the defence or settlement of any 
claim in respect of any liability covered by this insurance in the name of the person 
against whom the claim is brought
The effect of such a term is that  on a question of whether to settle a third partys claim  
the insurers view will prevail over the policyholders.
I will consider whether QBE applied its term fairly. Unlike a court, I dont hear from both 
drivers and decide the extent to which either of them is responsible for causing damage or 
injury.
After the incident on 27 February 2018 Miss M reported it to QBE by telephone. QBE 
recorded that call. It made a note that that Miss M had said shed been driving on an icy road 
and couldnt stop before a give- way line at a junction with a main road. Its note included the 
following: 
Insured tried to stop but she hit a patch of ice as the did an oncoming TP and the 2 
vehicles made contact
On about 10 April 2018, Miss M complained that there hadnt been an impact or any damage 
on 27 February 2018. 
On 13 April 2018, QBE sent an email saying that it had listened to the February call 
recording. Miss M didnt challenge that email promptly. From that, and from QBEs earlier 
note, I find that Miss M had reported a collision in February 2018. I make that finding 
notwithstanding that the call recording is no longer available.
From QBEs file, I see that the third party had made a claim that a collision had taken place 
and Miss M had been at fault. QBE saw evidence that the third party had had his front 
bumper repaired in early May 2018.
QBE had to decide whether to settle the claim or to defend it. Im satisfied that QBE weighed 
up what Miss M and the third party had each said. QBE decided  rather than to incur the 
costs and risk of a court case  to settle the third partys claim. I dont find that decision 
unfair in the circumstances.
Im sorry to hear that Miss M became depressed and unable to continue working as a taxi 
driver. But I havent found that QBEs decision to settle the claim was unfair. However, QBE had told Miss M that it would keep her updated. And it didnt do that. I dont 
doubt that Miss M was distressed when she found out that QBE had settled the third partys 
claim without telling her.
Miss M hasnt provided enough medical evidence to show that it was the shortcomings in 
QBEs communication that caused her ill health.
  
Putting things right
Overall Im satisfied that QBEs offer to Miss M is more than fair and reasonable to make up 
for the shortcomings in its service to her.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct QBE UK Limited to do (insofar as it hasnt already done) the following:
1. pay Miss M £200.00 for distress and inconvenience; and
2. record the claim as non-fault on internal and external databases; and
3. based on that, re-calculate the premiums for 2018 and 2019 and to refund the 
overpayment of each of those premiums totalling £1,100.80 (which Miss M received 
on 8 September 2020); and
4. add simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% from the date of each of Miss Ms 
overpayments to 8 September 2020. If QBE considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss M 
how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman