DRN-4496937
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Highway Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy that it 
declined part of his claim under his home insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Highway includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr K made a claim under his home insurance policy after a flood at his property. When 
Highway looked into his claim he had a number of issues with the way it dealt with his claim. 
But this complaint centred around the refusal to pay for the parts of his motorbike/scooter 
which had been dismantled that were damaged by the flood. Highway said the parts werent 
covered as the policy doesnt cover vehicles and these parts would be classed as part of a 
vehicle. So Mr K complained to Highway and then this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K, but she didnt uphold his complaint. Although 
she sympathised with Mr Ks position she didnt think it had done anything wrong as the 
policy didnt cover the motorbike parts so she couldnt ask Highway to pay this part of the 
claim. 
As Mr K didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr K has other complaints in relation to the handling of this claim. But they 
wont be considered as part of this complaint which relates solely to the decline of the claim 
for his motorbike parts that were damaged. 
Turning to Mr Ks complaint about the water damaged motorbike or scooter parts I have a 
fair degree of sympathy for the position he has found himself and he simply wants payment 
for the motorbike parts that were damaged in his garage by the flood. While I can 
understand this I cant ask Highway to step outside the policy terms and conditions when 
considering the claim. And I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr K, but Im not 
upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
I know Mr K doesnt like the description Highway have used in turning down this part of his 
claim as he doesnt believe that the parts can be described as part of a vehicle when they 
were separate as the scooter had been dismantled. Mr K feels that the scooter has been 
fully disassembled and is therefore not a vehicle until it is reassembled.
However, the policy gives a clear description of what a vehicle is defined as under the policy 
and is excluded. It says, Vehicles and other means of transport that are mechanically 
propelled or assisted, whether licensed for road use or not, or their parts or accessories. 
So, although Mr K doesnt believe the motorbike parts should be classified as such, but the 
policy is clear about this. And as it was Highways intention not to provide cover for vehicles, 
including their parts or accessories, I cant say it has done anything wrong here. 
It might be that Mr K presumed the policy would provide cover, but it is clear it doesnt. And 
the onus is on a consumer to ensure that the cover provided by the insurer is sufficient for 
their needs. 
Given all of this, and despite my natural sympathy for Mr K, I dont think Highway has done 
anything wrong here in declining this part of the claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. And I wont be asking it to change its position.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman