DRN-4496712
The complaint
Mx T complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) initially agreed to open a new current 
account for them but changed its mind before they were able to use it. Among other things, 
they would like an explanation as to why this was done and for the account to be re-opened 
or for a new one to be offered.
What happened
In May 2023 Mx T applied for a current account with Santander online. They were asked to 
provide some additional information such as identification and proof of address in order for 
the application to be finalised. Mx T said that a few days later, Santander called them to say 
that it wouldnt be able to open an account for them. They said the caller told them that a 
past decision by Santander to close a previous account, where they were also told they were 
not welcome to bank with Santander anymore, still stood. Mx T said they then asked for the 
rejection letter.
 
The following day Mx T received an email from Santander again asking for the same 
documentation it had asked for a few days prior. They called Santander to clarify this, and 
they were told to attend a branch to provide the documentation in person. Mx T say they did 
so a few days later and were told they would have an update within three days.
 
A few days later they called Santander to chase a response as they hadnt heard back. In 
one of their calls, they were told their application was with another team who would call them 
with an update. In a subsequent call they were asked to post the documents as Santander 
couldnt trace them. They did so, and Santander received the documents within a few days. 
Around ten days later, as there was still no update on the progress of the application, Mx T 
called Santander again. It said it had received the documents and they were with a team 
who would review them and email Mx T. In a subsequent call they were advised that there 
was an issue with their application and asked to resubmit it, which they did. 
Over the following week they received their PIN, a card and their account details. But they 
were unable to set up their online banking, so they called Santander again. When they 
called, they were told that the account had been closed a few days prior and that they would 
be receiving a letter to explain why. 
During that time, on 16 June 2023, Santander wrote to Mx T to say it was withdrawing its 
decision to offer them an account after reviewing some additional information. In that letter it 
said that as part of its commitment to prevent fraud, it used information held by fraud 
prevention agencies and that Mx T could ask those agencies directly about any information 
held about them. Mx T said that after checking with those agencies, they didnt feel that that 
reason applied to them and complained.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint fully but offered Mx T £50 as a gesture of goodwill for 
the conflicting information they had been given during the process and for the time spent on 
phone calls and visiting its branch. But it didnt change its decision about the account and 
said that it has the right to withdraw banking facilities at any time as per its policies and 
procedures. 
Mx T then brought their complaint to us. Among other things, they said they suffered 
inconvenience and were impacted financially and emotionally by Santanders actions. They 
added that they were concerned about the time and effort theyd spent on this, and about the 
potential damage to their credit score. Mx T asked for a clear explanation as to why the 
account was closed; for it to be reopened; compensation; an apology and for Santander to 
review its procedures so a similar situation did not arise with other customers in the future.   
They added that the stress and anxiety caused by the process caused a drastic decline in 
their mental health. They also said that they felt Santander had discriminated against them.
 
Mx T said to us that theyd reapplied for an account with Santander despite the previous 
closure, as they believed that their circumstances had changed and that due to their good 
financial standing they would be successful. They said they were worried the closure and 
rejection of their application would be viewed negatively by other financial institutions and 
could affect their ability to secure credit in the future. 
While the complaint was with us Santander increased its compensation offer to £106.35 due 
to the conflicting information provided to Mx T. The award included postage costs of £6.35. 
Mx T rejected this offer and said they believed the inconvenience caused was more 
significant. They also said they wanted the account to be reopened. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and thought that the increased 
compensation of £106.35 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Our investigator 
thought Santander was acting within its legal and regulatory obligations and exercising 
commercial discretion which allows it to decide who it offers its services to. He added that he 
didnt think Santander had discriminated against Mx T and he also hadnt seen any evidence 
about the closure having an adverse impact on their credit file. 
Mx T didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In addition to disagreeing with 
the points above regarding the discrimination and impact on their credit file, they also felt 
that our investigator failed to address their point about Santander reviewing its processes 
and procedures. Our investigator explained that we would only look at the merits of Mx Ts 
specific complaint and not the potential impact on other consumers. That would be the role 
of the regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
The matter was then passed to me to issue a decision on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go into my findings, Id like to explain that what I will be looking at in this decision 
are the events that started in May 2023 insofar as they relate to the closure of the account. I 
understand that Mx T had complained to us about Santander previously for the closure of 
their previous account where they were told they were no longer welcome to bank with it. 
That complaint was decided by another ombudsman, so I wont be able to revisit those 
issues. In that decision the ombudsman said that Santander was acting within its terms and 
conditions when it closed that account. 
It might be helpful if I start off by explaining that our service doesnt punish or fine 
businesses, and its also not our place to say that a procedure the business follows is 
incorrect. Only the industry regulator, the FCA can do this. Businesses have legal and regulatory obligations they have to meet, and they have processes in place in order to meet 
these obligations. So, our role in cases like this one, is to look at whether the bank has 
followed its own internal procedures correctly, while also meeting its legal and regulatory 
obligations.
Firstly, Id like to address Mx Ts point about wanting to prevent similar situations from 
arising with other customers. As our investigator explained this isnt something I can look at 
as part of this complaint. Our role is to consider the individual complaint thats brought to us 
and not to consider the potential impact on other customers. That is the role of the FCA.
 
Mx T said they wanted an explanation as to why their account was closed and they wish for 
it to be reopened. Santander said it was relying on its terms and conditions when it closed 
the account and that it is entitled to choose who to offer its services to. 
Just as a customer can choose who they bank with, a bank can choose who it has (and 
keeps) as customers. So, I agree with our investigator that Santander was exercising its 
commercial discretion which allows it to decide who it offers its services to. And from what I 
have seen, Im satisfied that its decision to close the account was fair and reasonable. For 
that reason, I wont be asking Santander to re-open the account.
 
Also, a bank doesnt need to explain to its customer why its closing an account, just as Mx T 
wouldnt have had to give Santander a reason if theyd decided to leave it. So, I dont think 
Santander was obliged to provide Mx T with an explanation.
Nevertheless, Mx T said that; and this is confirmed in Santanders file; during one of their 
calls with Santander, they were told that the reason was because of the previous account 
closure and that they were no longer welcome to bank with Santander. So, though this 
wasnt in Santanders response to Mx Ts complaint or its closure letter Im satisfied its more 
likely than not that Mx T has understood why Santander closed their account. 
I appreciate Mx T may be unhappy that the account was opened in the first place which 
caused them confusion, many calls to Santander and a wasted trip to Santanders branch. 
Santander said because the account was opened online it wasnt able to stop the account 
from being opened at the time. I accept that these may be Santanders internal processes 
and I wont seek to interfere with them. But, I think Santander had opportunities to put this 
right subsequently and it didnt. 
Santander has provided a list of calls between it and Mx T from 20 May to 23 June 2013. It 
has also provided call recordings which I have listened to. During a number of the calls Mx T 
was told that their application was either not received or had been received and was being 
reviewed by another team. No substantial updates were provided until after call ten when 
they were told the account would be closed and would remain that way. And that is bearing 
in mind Mx T had, in the meantime, been sent a PIN and a card; which, albeit, they couldnt 
use. 
I think Santanders actions would have caused Mx T a certain degree of inconvenience. 
Mx T have also said that the way they were treated impacted their mental health though I am 
not sure this is something they raised during their calls to Santander. In any event, I think its 
offer of £106.35 including postage costs is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and in 
line with what I would have awarded. Im not minded to increase this amount bearing in mind 
that Mx T didnt get a chance to use the account so they didnt suffer the added 
inconvenience of moving funds over to this account and having to move them again, setting 
up direct debits etc. Mx T said that Santander has discriminated against them. Having considered everything I 
havent seen any evidence of discrimination or that Mx T was treated in a way that was 
different to any other customer in a similar situation. 
Mx T have provided their credit file which, as far as I am aware, showed no adverse entries. 
I appreciate they think that this account closure may impact their ability to get credit in future 
but there is currently no evidence to support this. And in any event, I am not able to award 
compensation for something that may or may not happen in the future as part of this 
complaint. 
I appreciate Mx T also wanted Santander to apologise but I think the compensation it 
awarded in this case is sufficient. And I dont think a forced apology would have much 
meaning in any event. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc must pay 
Mx T £106.35 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused them, if it hasnt 
already done so.
Santander UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mx T accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
If Santander UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mx T how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mx T a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mx T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman