DRN-2579148
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly refused to pay a claim on his 
home insurance for damage to his garden wall.
What happened
Mr M has a buildings insurance policy with Aviva. In October 2020, he called Aviva to report 
that his garden wall had collapsed due to severe winds. Mr Ms builder inspected the 
damage and said the most likely cause of damage was heavy winds and bad weather.
Aviva reviewed the information Mr Ms builder provided. It declined the claim for storm 
damage as it said weather records for the local area didnt show winds strong enough to be 
classed as a storm.
Mr M didnt agree so complained to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
He felt Aviva had acted fairly in declining the claim for storm damage as the local weather 
reports didnt show there were storm conditions at the time. He also felt the circumstances 
didnt qualify for cover under the accidental damage part of the policy.
Because Mr M didnt agree with our investigator, this case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy includes cover for storm damage. But to make a successful claim for this, he 
would need to first show there was a storm at the time.
The policy itself doesnt define what amounts to a storm. I would normally stay a storm 
involves high winds, but its important to note a storm is not the same as mere bad weather 
conditions. Aviva has relied on official records to say there were no storm force conditions in 
that area at the time. Ive also checked the records available to us and these show a 
maximum gust of 35mph in the weeks leading up to and including the date of the incident. 
Im satisfied that a wind speed of up to 35mph is not sufficient to amount to storm, nor do I 
think the other information in the weather records show there was a storm.
Mr M has provided a link to ABI information, but this itself says a storm is defined as wind 
speeds of 55mph. Mr M has provided links to the BBC and the Met Office warning of gale 
force winds in some parts of the UK, but I dont see that this proves there were gale force 
winds at the insured propertys location. So I dont think this is enough to show there was a 
storm at the location of the property that caused the damage.
Mr M says the garden wall is a permanent fixture of the property, is a part of the propertys 
structure and should therefore be covered. Its not disputed that the wall is something that is 
covered under the policy. But its only covered for damage caused by an insured event, such 
as a storm and as outlined above, there isnt evidence to show the damage was caused by a 
storm. Mr M mentions a natural cause of collapse. Its not clear what he means by this but 
this is not one of the insured events listed in the policy terms.
I dont consider that Aviva needs to attend and physically inspect the damage or investigate 
further if it can reasonably draw its conclusions from the information it is provided and the 
records available to it  this is whats happened here. 
Its the insureds responsibility to show that an insured event has occurred, so I dont think 
Aviva did anything wrong in asking Mr M to obtain a report into the damage. Aviva would 
only be responsible for the cost of any such report if it was proven there was an insured 
event, but as outlined above, I dont consider this is the case here.
Lastly, based on the available information, I dont think the damage is covered under the 
accidental damage part of the policy  the damage didnt happen as a result of an accident. 
Nor do I see that there are any other specified insured events under the policy that apply to 
the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman