DRN-3773630
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent him from falling victim to 
what he says was an investment scam.
Mr P has brought his complaint using a representative. But for ease of reading, Ill ascribe 
the representatives comments to Mr P himself. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2017 Mr P saw an advert online and got in touch with a Mr D who presented himself as a 
trader. He indicated Mr P would be able to achieve a 10% monthly return on his investment. 
Mr P met with Mr D in person. Mr D shared with Mr P proof of his identity and address. They 
also both signed a contract which set out the nature of the agreement. Following on from this 
Mr P sent £20,000 from his Lloyds account to Mr D. 
Between September 2017 and February 2018 Mr P received just under £3,000 back from 
Mr D, but Mr D then ceased contact. In 2018 Mr P reported to Lloyds that hed been the 
victim of a scam. Lloyds declined to offer any refund and said that the beneficiary bank had 
reported to them that no funds remained to be returned. 
More recently Mr P complained to Lloyds who maintained their decision and the matter was 
referred to our service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should 
be upheld. In summary he didnt think that Mr P had been the victim of a scam and Lloyds 
therefore didnt need to do anything further. Mr P disagrees and has asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr P, so Ill explain why. 
Banks have various and long-standing obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act 
in their customers best interests. But these are predicated on there having been a fraud or 
scam. So, my first consideration must be whether Mr D was operating a scam as Mr P 
alleges. 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing returns or 
losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods that were 
arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Ive carefully considered this, but Im not persuaded that at the relevant time Mr D was 
operating a scam. I say this for the following reasons:
Mr D returned nearly £3,000. This would be an unusual step to take if the intention 
from the start had been to defraud Mr P.
Mr D provided evidence of his identity and address to Mr P and they met in person. 
Again this would be very unusual if the intention had been to scam Mr P as Mr D 
presumably wouldnt have wanted to disclose his identity and address in that 
scenario. 
Ive seen evidence of the investment contract between Mr P and Mr D. This clearly 
sets out that The Client [Mr P] acknowledges that [Mr D] is not authorised by 
Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) & is also not regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) The Client understands and acknowledges that as the 
value of investment can go up as well as down so the initial investment is not 
guaranteed. Trading Forex carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable for all 
investors. 
Ive considered all of Mr Ps submissions which include the fact that this has been reported 
to Action Fraud, as well as the nature of the website where the opportunity was advertised 
and the apparent guarantee of high returns. But none of this persuades me that this was a 
scam, and on balance, I agree with our Investigator that its most likely this was a high-risk 
unregulated investment, rather than a fraud or scam.
And as Lloyds have no obligation to intervene unless there is a fraud, scam or the 
misappropriation of funds, I cant fairly criticise them for not doing more in these 
circumstances. When Mr P reported that he believed this was a scam, I can see that Lloyds 
contacted the beneficiary bank who reported that no funds remained. Based on what they 
believed at the time, this is what Id expect Lloyds to do and I dont think their actions 
resulted in a further loss to Mr P. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr P lost these funds. But in these circumstances, as I dont think there 
were any failures by Lloyds, Im not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman