DRN-3210891
The complaint
Mr F has complained about esure Insurance Company Limited's service and actions in 
association with his motor insurance policy.
Reference to esure includes its agents. 
Provisional findings
On 9 November 2021 I issued a provisional decision. For ease I've copied the relevant 
extract below. I said:
What happened
Mr F lost the key to his car on a Friday evening. He rang esure in order for it to provide him 
with a new key under the terms of the key cover his policy gives him. esure said it would 
send a locksmith out who would arrive the next day. But it eventually told him the locksmith 
wouldnt arrive until the Sunday.
Mr F went to meet the locksmith on the Sunday but his car was missing. Hed left his car in a 
controlled parking zone, where a parking permit, which Mr Fs car didn't have, is required. 
Mr F spoke with the councils representatives the next morning and asked if they had towed 
his car away. They confirmed they hadn't done so. Mr F reported the car stolen to the police 
and then claimed on his esure policy.
The car was later recovered. But it had suffered some damage and the key was still missing. 
esure deemed it to be beyond economic repair. It settled Mr Fs claim for the loss of his car. 
After it had done so, it noted that Mr F had previously spoken to its agents, concerning the 
lost key, on the Sunday after his car had gone missing. esure said Mr F had told its agents 
that the council had towed his car away. So it said Mr F shouldnt have claimed for the theft 
of his car. It said he had made the claim fraudulently and it cancelled his policy. It asked 
Mr F to repay it what it had paid to him to settle his claim for the car.
Mr F brought his complaint to us. While we were considering it Mr F provided evidence from 
the police that his car had been stolen. esure then confirmed with the council that the car 
had been picked up and towed away from a location some miles away from where Mr F had 
left it. And on that basis esure agreed that it didn't have sufficient evidence to try to recover 
its settlement for Mr Fs claim. So it confirmed it didn't need Mr F to repay its claim outlay. 
Our investigator who was looking into Mr Fs complaint thought esure had done enough to 
put things right. Mr F didn't agree so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did esure respond to Mr Fs lost key claim appropriately?
Mr F feels that esure was too slow to send someone to sort out the issue with the lost key. 
He says he has 24 hour cover and that if esure had sent someone out sooner, then the car 
wouldn't have been stolen.
Mr F thinks that someone must have found the lost key and then used it to steal the car. 
Mr F thinks that if esure couldn't sort out the key issue straightaway then it should have 
moved his car. But I don't believe that would have been apparent to esure when he made 
the claim for the lost key. As far as I'm aware there was no evidence that anyone actually 
knew where the key was. And while Mr F felt it was in the general area where hed parked 
the car, esure had no reason to suspect that anyone finding the key could instantly know 
which car it was for. So I don't think it could have anticipated that a thief would be able to 
find Mr Fs key and then use it to steal his car. Further, we don't actually know if the key was 
used to steal Mr Fs car or if the thief used some other method. In those circumstances 
I don't think I can fairly and reasonably say that if esure had responded to Mr Fs key claim 
more quickly its unlikely the car wouldve been stolen.
That said esure had told Mr F that a locksmith would attend to his car on the Saturday. But 
that didn't happen. And the locksmith didn't actually turn up until the Sunday and this was 
after the car had already been stolen. So I can understand why Mr F feels the delay in the 
locksmith arriving was a factor in the theft of his car. Even if we can't be certain that was the 
case, its clearly been a source of frustration, distress and inconvenience for Mr F. So its 
something I've thought about when awarding compensation below.
esures handling of the theft claim
It seems that, initially at least, esure handled the theft claim reasonably. It contacted Mr F 
promptly and asked him to explain what he knew about the theft. It later paid his claim for the 
market value of his car.
But, some time later, esures agents who handled the lost key issue, told esure that Mr F had 
told them, on the Sunday, that his car had been towed away rather than stolen. I've listened 
to a recording of Mr Fs call with the agents. The quality of the call recording is poor, there is 
wind noise, and its difficult to hear everything Mr F is saying. But it sounds like Mr F initially 
said he understood the car had been towed away by the councils representatives, rather 
than it having been stolen. And as Mr F made that call shortly after noticing his car was 
missing, esure believed that, when hed made a claim for the theft of the car the next day, he 
did so in the knowledge that  in fact  the councils representatives had towed away his car 
rather than it having been stolen. esure said that pointed to Mr F making a fraudulent claim. 
So it cancelled his policy and told Mr F he would need to repay what it had paid to settle his 
claim.
Mr F explained to us that, in fact, he didn't know what had happened to his car initially. He'd 
left it in a restricted parking area. And there were signs up warning of enforcement action for 
cars parked without the appropriate permit. So he thought that, perhaps, the councils  
representatives had towed his car away. But, as it was a Sunday, he was unable to get 
through to anyone at the council to find out if that was the case. So, at the time he spoke to 
esures agent about the locksmiths intended visit, he didn't really know what had happened 
to the car. It was only the next morning that he could speak to the councils representatives 
who confirmed that they hadn't towed his car away and so he reported it stolen, 
subsequently making the claim to esure.
Further, esure was later able to confirm that while Mr Fs car had been recovered by 
representatives for the council, they had found it a number of miles away from where Mr F 
had left it. In other words the council didn't tow it away from where Mr F had parked it before 
he lost the key. So it appears that the car had been the subject of a theft and then left elsewhere, having suffered some damage. It was only then towed away by the council after 
the theft. In other words, Mr Fs claim was genuine and was always something that his policy 
covered him for.
But, esure didn't fully investigate this before it accused Mr F of making his claim fraudulently. 
I don't think that was fair or reasonable. I need to make clear that it's not my role to 
determine if someones acted fraudulently, as ultimately that's a matter for law enforcement 
agencies and the courts. But fraud is a serious allegation, it goes to someone's integrity, it 
alleges a criminal act (and might expose them to the risk of criminal investigation and 
prosecution) and it may have repercussions for an individual's ability to obtain insurance for 
years to come. So, before declining a claim on an allegation of fraud, I think its reasonable 
that an insurer, like esure, must have enough evidence on which to base such an allegation. 
And I don't think esure ever had that here.
When esure spoke with Mr F about the circumstances of the claim, he didn't  during that 
call  tell esure hed spoken with its agents on the Sunday and said that his car might have 
been towed away. But esure didn't ever ask Mr F to explain why hed missed that detail out 
when he spoke with it or why the evidence in that call seemed to indicate that he knew that 
the council had towed his car away. However, Mr F was capable of providing a compelling 
explanation for that when we spoke with him.
Further, esure could have done more investigation at the time to find out where the car was 
recovered from. esures told us that it did try to find out where the council had recovered the 
car from but it didn't receive a reply to its enquiries. That might have been the case, but it 
didn't follow up on that enquiry. And I don't think it had reasonable grounds to assume that 
Mr F must have been lying about the circumstances of the theft and hed therefore made a 
fraudulent claim. In fact the evidence now available shows that Mr Fs claim was genuine. 
And if esure had investigated matters thoroughly it likely could have found that out for itself 
with only minimal enquiries. So I think esure acted hastily, unfairly and without proper 
investigation when it accused Mr F of making a fraudulent claim.
I've thought about how this has impacted on Mr F. He told us that, because of the allegation 
of fraud, he hasn't been able to drive as he would have had to declare it to potential insurers. 
I note that esure cancelled Mr Fs policy in March 2020 and it was May 2021 before it 
reversed its decision about his claim. So this matter would have affected Mr F for some time. 
Its true that Mr F would have been required to tell other insurers that esure had cancelled 
his policy during this period. This would have stopped some insurers from offering him cover 
and it most likely would have made sourcing a replacement policy more expensive for him. 
But I've seen no compelling evidence that Mr F wouldn't have been able to get any cover at 
all. So I'm not going to hold esure responsible if Mr F didn't drive for some considerable time.
That said esure cancelled Mr Fs policy unfairly. Mr F hasn't provided any evidence that he 
intended to add another car to the policy at the time. So I don't think this affected him 
financially. But to try to ensure that the policy cancellation doesn't have a harmful effect on 
him going forward, I think esure should amend its own and any external records to note that 
it was Mr F himself  rather than esure  which cancelled the policy.
Compensation
I don't think esure has dealt with Mr F fairly. The locksmith it appointed didn't attend to Mr Fs 
car when esure had said he would. And Mr F is convinced his car was stolen as a result. 
Further, esure later unfairly accused him of fraud and cancelled his policy. And that would 
have had a significant effect on his ability to find affordable insurance, which might have 
deterred him from looking for that cover. And I can understand this would have been a 
source of frustration and inconvenience for Mr F, which added to a sense of injustice as esure had accused him of something he hadn't done. So, to put things right I think esure 
should pay him £800 compensation.
Developments 
esure accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr F asked if his no claims discount (NCD) and policy excess payment would be taken into 
account. 
So I've gone on to consider if I need to amend my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs policy says that, where esure pays a claim on his policy for the theft of his car it would 
deduct his £250 excess from any settlement. Thats what esure did and I think it did so fairly. 
Thats because, as I said in my provisional decision, I don't think I could fairly or reasonably 
say that if esure had dealt with Mr Fs key claim more quickly his car wouldn't have been 
stolen. In other words I don't think esure is responsible for the theft of Mr Fs car. But it was 
stolen and he made a successful claim on his policy for its loss. So, I think it was reasonable 
for esure to apply the policy terms and deduct the excess that applied to such a claim. 
Similarly, as Mr F has had a claim on his policy and esure can't recover what it paid to settle 
the claim from another party, then its usual in those circumstances for that claim to affect his 
NCD entitlement. Thats what happened in this case, so Im not going to instruct esure to 
take any further action concerning Mr Fs NCD.
Neither Mr F nor esure objected to my other provisional findings; so I see no reason to 
amend those now.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Company 
Limited to:
Amend its own and any external records to note the cancellation of Mr Fs policy from 
March 2020 as cancelled by him.
Pay Mr F £800 compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman