DRN-3798271
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc failed to cap her mortgage current 
account (MCA) reserve when it reached £2,000, even though she asked the bank to do so. 
To settle the complaint, Mrs W wants Barclays:
to consolidate the MCA balance into the mortgage, on a five-year fixed interest rate with 
the mortgage end date remaining the same; or
to transfer the MCA onto a five-year loan.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat all the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mrs W being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In about 2002 Mrs W took out a mortgage with Woolwich, the residential lending division of 
Barclays. The mortgage came with a MCA.
The MCA is an overdraft facility, which works like this: as capital is repaid off the mortgage, 
the overdraft limit on the MCA increases by the same amount, due to what Barclays calls 
rebalancing.  This can be spent by the borrower, through the mortgage current account. But 
its not intended to be an additional regular income stream for the borrower; nor should it be 
used to make the mortgage repayments.
Borrowers are free to repay the overdraft, in part or in full, if they wish to do so, at any time. 
Customers can pay money into the MCA if they want to, and operate it in credit. If there is a 
credit balance, interest accruing on that balance can, if the customer requests it, be offset 
against the mortgage interest. But the MCA in this case isnt in credit and so it operates as 
an overdraft facility with debit interest accruing on the outstanding balance.
The overdraft also becomes immediately repayable in full when the related mortgage 
account is repaid  either when the mortgage reaches the end of its term or if the mortgage 
is repaid sooner (for example, on sale or remortgage of the property). 
The MCA operates on an interest-only basis. Interest is currently charged on the overdraft 
balance at Bank of England Base Rate + 4.49%, except where the mortgage is a specific 
offset mortgage, where interest is charged at the offset mortgage rate.
Statements for the MCA show that by 6 November 2009 the overdraft had just exceeded 
£2,000. Mrs W says that, from that date on, she regularly asked staff in Barclays branch to 
cap the overdraft limit at £2,000, but was told they could not do this. Barclays says it has no 
record of these requests.
It wasnt until 2014 that there is a record of a phone call from Mrs W when she discussed the 
MCA limit with Barclays and it was agreed to cap it at £10,752.
In April 2022 Mrs W complained to Barclays about the MCA. She was unhappy that Barclays 
hadnt capped it at £2,000 when shed asked it to many years earlier, and she held the bank 
responsible for the increase in the MCA. Mrs W thought Barclays should freeze interest on 
the MCA.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letter the bank explained that it had 
not made any error, as Mrs W had used the facility and so interest was being correctly 
applied as per the account terms and conditions.
Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Mrs W complained to our service. An investigator 
looked at what had happened, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs W 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
In an email dated 28 November 2022 Mrs W set out the points shed like me to consider. 
Much of what Mrs W has said relates to her dissatisfaction with the investigator, and that is 
not something I will comment on. However, Mrs W has also made some points about her 
understanding of how the MCA operates, with the reserve limit increasing as the mortgage 
balance reduces.
Mrs W says that Barclays is duty bound in law to stop the overdraft increasing, and that, as 
a responsible lender, Barclays should have acted immediately when she asked it to cap the 
limit at £2,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I will explain that I think its more likely than not that Mrs W asked branch staff to cap 
the MCA limit when it reached £2,000 in 2009. However, it is correct that branch staff arent 
able to do this, as it involves a material changes to the mortgage which is not done at branch 
level. It can only be done by a separate department within the bank that deals with mortgage 
administration. 
I note that after 2009 there was a considerable amount of telephone contact between Mrs W 
and the mortgage administration department at Barclays about the mortgage. Despite this, it 
wasnt until March 2014 that Mrs W first asked Barclays to cap the MCA, at which point it 
was at about £10,700. Im therefore not persuaded that Barclays did anything wrong in not 
reducing the limit to £2,000 in 2009, or at any point thereafter until Mrs W specifically 
requested the mortgage department to do this. 
Its important to note that Barclays role is to administer the account, not to manage it on 
behalf of Mrs W, or police her spending. So if Mrs W hadnt wanted the overdraft to increase 
above £2,000, all she needed to do was to stop using it once it reached that limit. There was 
no obligation on the part of Mrs W to continue to use the MCA reserve, and I cant hold 
Barclays responsible for the fact that she did so.
But I have some sympathy for Mrs W, as it seems from Barclays contact notes that shes 
been in financial difficulty from time to time over the years and has done her best to pay off 
arrears and stay on top of things. Barclays is required to treat customers who are in financial 
hardship sympathetically. That doesnt mean, however, that the bank is required to re-arrange the mortgage to consolidate the MCA, freeze interest on the MCA or to offer a 
new mortgage product to Mrs W. 
However, it appears from details of house prices in the area that the banks security isnt at 
risk, as the loan-to-value ratio appears to be around 50% for this mortgage, including the 
MCA. Given this, Id expect Barclays to look at what it can do to help Mrs W and whether 
there is a long-term solution to this situation. I cant force Barclays to offer Mrs W a new 
mortgage product, but I think the bank should think about what affordable options it can offer 
Mrs W that would allow her to clear the mortgage and the MCA within a reasonable time.
Alternatively, Mrs W might find it helpful to speak to an independent mortgage broker to see 
if there are alternative lenders that could assist her. She can find details of regulated 
financial advisers on the Financial Conduct Authority website.
However, in relation to the administration of the MCA, Im unable to find that Barclays has 
done anything wrong. I know this isnt the answer Mrs W was hoping for, but Im satisfied 
that it wasnt until March 2014 that there is a record of Mrs W first asking for the MCA to be 
capped, and Barclays followed Mrs Ws instructions at that time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman