DRN-3142563
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a number of transactions made 
from his account which he says he didnt make.
  
What happened
Mr A has an account with Barclays, that was formally a joint account held by him and his 
now late father. During 2014, a large number of cash withdrawals and cheques were paid 
out of the account, which Mr A says neither he nor his father made or authorised. Mr A 
suspects the transactions were done by his brother.
Barclays investigated the transactions but said it felt this was a civil matter which should be 
dealt with between Mr A and his brother. So it didnt agree to refund the transactions. 
Barclays did pay Mr A £225 compensation for the delays in its response to his complaint. 
Mr A wasnt happy with Barclays response, so referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said they couldnt be sure the 
transactions werent authorised so didnt think it would be fair to ask Barclays to refund them. 
But they did recommend Barclays pay a further £100 compensation, as it appeared some of 
the cheques shouldnt have been paid. Barclays agreed but Mr A disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, a business can hold a customer liable for disputed transactions on their account if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that they made them themselves or told 
someone else they could make them.
As the disputed transactions are all either cash withdrawals or cheques, I think its likely they 
were all made using a genuine card and PIN or cheque book relating to the account. But the 
relevant regulations say that this, on its own, isnt enough to allow Barclays to hold Mr A 
liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not 
that Mr A, or his father, consented to the transactions.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Mr A says he didnt make or consent to the disputed transactions, and I have no reason to 
doubt him. But his late father was a joint account holder at the time, and so I must also 
consider whether Mr As father consented to the transactions.
Mr A has been clear that he doesnt think his father consented to the transactions. And hes 
said that, due to his fathers medical condition, he wouldnt have been physically able to 
make the transactions. But Mr As father doesnt need to have physically made the 
transactions himself, only to have consented to them being made.
Mr A has also said that his brother would have been in breach of the trust under which their 
grandfathers estate was left to their father if he had taken money from the account, and that 
his brother wasnt allowed to visit their father. But its not for me to determine whether the 
trust, or any other agreement between the family, has been breached. This would be a civil 
matter between the family. I can only consider whether I think Barclays has acted reasonably 
and so, as Ive explained above, Im only looking at whether I think Mr As father consented 
to the transactions.
As Mr As father has since died, its not possible to ask him about the transactions and 
whether he consented to them. And this unfortunately means were limited in the evidence 
we have available. I acknowledge that Mr A, as well as other members of his family and 
representatives, have made a number of arguments about what they think happened. But as 
we cant ask Mr As father about the transactions, I dont think I can rule out that he did 
consent to them. And so I dont think it would be fair to conclude that he didnt consent to the 
transactions or to ask Barclays to refund them.
I appreciate how Mr A feels about this case and that my decision will come as a 
disappointment to him. But I think Barclays has acted reasonably in holding him liable for the 
transactions and I dont think it needs to refund the transactions to him.
Barclays has paid Mr A £225 as compensation for the delays in its response to his 
complaint. And I think this is a fair offer for the distress and inconvenience these delays 
caused him.
Mr A has sent us copies of some of the cheques that were paid out of the account, and 
these appear to have been signed by his brother  who isnt and wasnt a signatory on the 
account. So it appears Barclays made an error in allowing these cheques to be paid out of 
the account.
For the same reasons as above, I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to refund these 
cheques. I dont think it would be fair to conclude that Mr As father didnt consent to these 
transactions being made. But I do think finding out these cheques had been processed when 
they shouldnt have been would have caused Mr A distress and inconvenience. So I think 
Barclays should pay Mr A a further £100 as compensation for this.
  
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr A £100, in addition to 
the £225 it has already paid, for a total of £325.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman