DRN-3225787
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain Admiral Insurance Company Limited have unfairly turned down a 
claim on their motor insurance policy.
Other parties have been involved in bringing this complaint aside from Mr and Mrs T  but 
for simplicity Ill mainly refer to Mr T in this decision.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case. Ive copied the relevant elements below, and 
they form part of this final decision.
Mrs T owned the car and held the policy in her name  Mr T (her son) was a named driver 
on the policy.
In March 2020 Mr T unfortunately crashed his Mums car. Initially, he said itd been taken 
from him, but a few days later said hed actually been driving.
Mr T said Admiral then took nine months to investigate the claim, and eventually turned it 
down. Mr T wasnt happy saying theyd based their decision on the first call, and that theyd 
said he was under the influence of alcohol. He also felt the decision was made based on a 
short call, theyd recorded it as a total loss claim, and moved it without telling him. So, 
unhappy with these issues, Mr T complained.
Admiral replied to the complaint. They said they were sorry for saying Mr T was driving 
under the influence of alcohol, as this was an assumption and not based on definitive 
evidence. They didnt agree with the rest of Mr Ts points though  they said following the 
incident they had concerns hed deliberately tried to mislead them, and that investigation 
took time. They didnt agree theyd just based their decision on a short phone call  they did 
move the car but to a place of free storage, otherwise costs would have been incurred. And 
they arranged at this time for personal belongings to be returned. For the total loss they felt 
this was correct and didnt think theyd caused any delays in Mr T collecting the car.
Unhappy with this Mr T brought the complaint to us to consider. One of our Investigators did 
so and didnt uphold the complaint. He felt it was fair for Admiral to rely on their terms and 
conditions to turn down the claim. He also didnt think theyd taken too long to look into 
things  and felt their apology for saying Mr T was driving under the influence of alcohol was 
fair.
Mrs T got in touch, saying this wasnt a deliberate attempt to defraud Admiral in any way. 
She added Mr T hadnt been charged by police for fraud  and as she was unaware at the 
time of the claim she should be protected under the terms and conditions.
Our Investigator still felt the complaint shouldnt be upheld, and as Mr and Mrs T didnt agree 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently planning to uphold this complaint.
I do accept that Mr T didnt tell Admiral the correct information initially, but Ive not seen 
anything to suggest he did so in an attempt to defraud them  as theyve suggested.
Instead, hes explained he was worried about causing more harm to his family. Thats an 
understandable motivation, even if its misguided. But, crucially, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest the information given to Admiral was intended to gain something he wasnt entitled 
to, which would be fraud. 
Had events happened as they should have, Mr T would have admitted driving, and Admiral 
would have dealt with the claim. Ive not seen anything to prove why they wouldnt have 
done so  nor have Admiral been able to provide anything despite a lengthy investigation.
So, with that in mind, Ill be upholding this complaint. That means Ill require Admiral to deal 
with, and pay, the claim as they should have done initially. I understand Mr and Mrs T took 
the car back  so Admiral will be entitled to deduct an amount from any claim payment for 
this. This is known as salvage, and Admiral will need to explain what theyre doing to 
Mr and Mrs T on this point. Theyll also be entitled to deduct anything else allowed under the 
policy terms  such as the excess.
In addition, Admiral need to remove Mr T and Mrs Ts names from any databases they may 
have recorded their names on for fraud or cancellation issues  and confirm this in writing. 
As a result of this, Mr T / Mrs T will be able to speak to their current insurers and potentially 
get their premiums adjusted, if they have been impacted by anything Admiral has recorded 
that it shouldnt have. 
Had things happened as they should have, Id also expect Admiral to have allowed Mr T / 
Mrs T to put this car back on cover if they repaired it or register another car on their policy. 
This policy had five months left to run but was cancelled unfairly. So, any premiums Mr and 
Mrs T paid on a new car policy to the end of this current policy should be refunded by 
Admiral upon production of evidence. And, to this, 8% interest will need to be added as its 
money they shouldnt have had to pay out. 
If Mr T / Mrs T didnt repair their existing car or get a new car, then they wouldnt be entitled 
to anything for this  as theres no loss theyve suffered to put right.
Although Admiral have taken a long time to investigate, and ultimately reached an outcome I 
dont agree with, I wont be awarding compensation for this. The length of the investigation 
was due to the circumstances that were reported to them, and they were diligent in trying to 
fully understand exactly whatd happened  which is why things took so long. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs T didnt reply by the deadline set.
Admiral asked me to reconsider my position, making the following points I consider relevant 
to the crux of the complaint:
Attempting to put in a theft claim instead of a road traffic collision claim results in a 
significantly lower excess  so there is a financial benefit to Mr T here.They were confused why Id said the policy was unfairly cancelled  explaining it was 
cancelled when the car was deemed a total loss.
They would have allowed Mr and Mrs T to put another car on cover.
They suggested Mr T has committed fraud, and said they intend to refer the matter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral have said there is a benefit to Mr T in reporting this claim as a theft instead of a road 
traffic collision. While Ive noted their comments, Id need to be satisfied this is something 
Mr T thought about at the time of making the claim. Ive seen no evidence of this, and I think 
its highly unlikely in the immediate aftermath of the crash, Mr T had the presence of mind to 
recall his excess would be higher depending on how he reported the claim. So, I dont think 
this proves any intent on Mr Ts part to gain a benefit he wasnt entitled to.
Regarding the cancellation and allowing Mr and Mrs T to put another car on cover. I cant 
see this was made clear to them at the time. So, if Mr and Mrs T did insure another car at 
the time, theyll need to provide proof for Admiral to work out how much is due. As for the 
cancellation, Im instructing Admiral to remove any records of a cancellation for fraud or 
related reasons  so, in effect, Mr and Mrs T dont need to report theyve had a policy 
cancelled in future.
Finally, Ive noted Admirals comments, where theyre continuing to suggest Mr T has 
committed fraud  and they intend to refer the matter. Its unclear to me why now, after close 
to two years, they intend to refer the matter on. But, as Ive explained above, Ive not seen 
anything to suggest Mr T deliberately reported the claim to gain something he wasnt entitled 
to. So, I remain of the opinion hes not tried to defraud them.
Putting things right
1. Pay the claim  deductions can be made as long as the policy terms and conditions 
allow for it (such as salvage costs, excess payable).
2. Remove Mr T and Mrs Ts names from any databases they may have reported fraud, 
or an unfair cancellation, to and provide a letter to confirm this.
3. Upon production of evidence from Mr T / Mrs T refund car insurance premiums paid 
since the accident on 8 March 2020 on a new car insurance policy, to the end date of 
the policy held with Admiral.
4. Add 8%* interest to any payment for the car insurance premiums mentioned in point 
3 from the date of payment, to the date of settlement, if applicable.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Admiral to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. Admiral must give Mr T and Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if asked for one.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to carry out the 
actions in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 Jon Pearce
Ombudsman