DRN-2975027
The complaint
Mrs R complains about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) decision to review, restrict 
and subsequently close her accounts. Mrs R says this left her in a financial challenging 
position and she faced returned direct debits and fees as a result.
Mrs R also doesnt think RBS treated her fairly as a vulnerable customer.
What happened
Mrs R held accounts with RBS. In July 2019, RBS blocked Mrs Rs accounts while they 
carried out a review. Mrs R says she wasnt given any notice of the block and found the 
situation stressful. Mrs R contacted RBS on several occasions to try and find out what was 
happening with her accounts and nobody was able to help her. Mrs R told RBS she was a 
vulnerable customer and feels they should have done more to help her.
During the time Mrs Rs account was blocked, she had a number of returned direct debits 
which resulted in fees being added to her account.
In September 2019, RBS regained full access to Mrs Rs accounts but issued her with 60 
days notice that her accounts would be closing.
Mrs R also requested a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) from RBS to see all of the 
personal data they held on her. RBS responded to the DSAR but Mrs R said information was 
missing  such as call recordings.
Mrs R brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
In summary, she said RBS were entitled to block and close Mrs Rs accounts and gave her 
appropriate notice. She also found that the DSAR didnt include all of the call recordings 
because RBS dont record all of their phone calls. And she concluded that all of the charges 
Mrs R faced as a result of the account block had been refunded.
Mrs R responded to the view and remained unhappy. She said shed had £6.50 compound 
interest added to the end of her mortgage and she doesnt think RBS treated her reasonably 
as a vulnerable customer.
Our investigator got in touch with RBS and asked them to pay the additional £6.50 which 
hadnt been refunded and they agreed. And our investigator didnt think RBS had treated 
Mrs R unfairly as a vulnerable customer as they acted rightfully when closing her accounts.
Mrs R remained unhappy.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The account block and closure
RBS are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
Im satisfied RBS was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed Mrs Rs account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong. 
I appreciate RBS didnt tell Mrs R about the review  but they dont have to. Im aware 
Mrs Rs account was blocked on 31 July 2019 and Mrs R didnt regain access to her 
accounts until 11 September 2019. We wouldnt usually confirm a timeframe in which a bank 
has to carry out a review  but we would always consider if there were any unavoidable 
delays. I appreciate Mrs R is unaware of why RBS took the actions they did  but RBS has 
shared information with our service  and while Im unable to pass that information on to 
Mrs R, Id like to reassure her that Im satisfied RBS actions were both proactive and 
reasonable.  
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mrs R decided to stop banking with RBS, she wouldnt have to explain why. RBS can 
only close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of the 
account. RBS have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mrs Rs account  and 
Im pleased to see they gave her the full 60 days notice to allow her time to source other 
banking arrangements. This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial 
discretion. RBS exercised their right to no longer offer Mrs R banking facilities and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that theyve made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do 
anything differently. 
Mrs Rs vulnerability
Mrs R told RBS that she was a vulnerable customer and didnt feel they should have treated 
her the way they did. I appreciate Mrs Rs feelings around this. It no doubt would have been 
extremely difficult for her to find herself without access to her money. And I appreciate this 
would have put her in a financially challenging position  especially as she identifies herself 
as a vulnerable customer. But a bank cant always guarantee that funds in an account will be 
readily available as they have broader regulatory obligations with which they have to comply.
Ive thought carefully about RBS actions and I cant fairly uphold Mrs Rs complaint on this 
point. Based on the evidence Ive received, Im satisfied that RBS actions were appropriate. 
Ive seen no evidence that RBS treated Mrs R unfairly. It therefore follows that despite 
Mrs Rs customer status, RBS didnt do anything wrong. So I cant fairly ask them to do 
anything differently because Mrs R is a vulnerable customer as I dont find their actions 
should have been any different in the circumstances of whats happened. 
The information missing from the DSAR
Mrs R feels that information was withheld from her by RBS when she requested a DSAR. In 
particular Mrs R feels that call recordings were missing. RBS explained that not all of their 
calls are recorded and therefore it wouldnt be feasible to send recordings of all calls made 
as part of the DSAR.
I find it important to explain that were an informal dispute resolution service and its not my 
role to determine if there has been a data breach by a company or to punish businesses. 
That would be better suited to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Therefore, If 
Mrs R feels this part of her complaint is still outstanding, Id find it more appropriate for her concerns to be highlighted to the ICO. So I wont be making further comment on this element 
of Mrs Rs complaint.
The late payment fees
While Mrs Rs account was blocked, several direct debits werent paid which resulted in 
Mrs R receiving fees charged to her account. RBS has provided evidence to show that 
theyve refunded these fees, however Mrs R said one fee of £6.50 added to her mortgage 
account hasnt been repaid.
Our investigator got in touch with RBS and they agreed to pay this additional fee, but Mrs R 
thinks its been added as compound interest and therefore will cost her more than £6.50 over 
the term of her mortgage. Based on the letter Mrs R has supplied to show this fee, I cant 
see that it has been added as compound interest  it appears as a one-off fee. And 
therefore, I find the £6.50 offer of a refund to be acceptable in the circumstances as this 
would put Mrs R back in the position she would have been in had the fee not been applied.
Overall
Overall, I find RBS actions when reviewing, blocking and closing Mrs Rs account to be 
acceptable in the circumstances of this complaint. RBS gave Mrs R appropriate notice to 
close her accounts and didnt treat her unfairly. And I find RBS actions when refunding 
Mrs R for the late payment fees she incurred to be fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman