DRN-3805002
The complaint
Ms N complains to Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium) about two bonds issued by 
Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc) which she invested into in 2017. She says she was wrongly 
told her investments were protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and that the bonds were low risk and 
diversified, but all of her money was lost.
 
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Ms N made two investments into B&G Plc 3-Year Fixed Monthly Income IFISA Bonds  in 
July 2017 she invested £20,000 and in August 2017 she invested £21,150. Sales of these 
bonds were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business from Basset & 
Gold Plc (B&G plc), the issuer of the bonds. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments 
in the bonds, through a website it operated. And it was responsible for advertising/marketing 
the bonds. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bonds.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Ms Ns investment in the bond
Ms N explains that she first found the bonds while searching for ISAs online. She says that 
she and her father spoke to BG Ltd representatives and were reassured about the bonds low 
risk and regulatory protection. She recalls being told that sufficient due diligence had been 
done, with monies lent being secured against assets. Ms N completed her first application 
online in June 2017. Ms N then completed her second application online, as well as a paper 
based form to instruct an ISA transfer from her bank.
Ms N says she had limited investment experience when applying for the bonds, having only 
experienced fixed rate bonds and stocks and shares ISAs previously. Ms N says she 
understood the bonds to be low risk and to have met her investment objectives.
When Ms N referred her complaint to us, we asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd 
held. We were provided with some, but they were service and enquiry calls  importantly, 
none were pertinent to the sales of the investments, so the recordings have not been 
material in my consideration of this complaint.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Ms N 
has not had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
It appears Ms N completed her applications for her bonds online  but she also followed up 
with a paper ISA form for the second bond, given she was transferring an existing ISA. 
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Ms N underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the 
rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Ms N 
was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
In relation to the second bond, have seen the ISA form and note Ms N included an 
application reference number that corresponded with her second bond application. It 
therefore appears she completed this after applying for her second bond online. The form 
asked Ms N to provide her personal and bank details for the transfer to be instructed. It also 
included a section called Understanding the IF ISA and asked Ms N questions about her 
understanding of the bond. 
Galliums response to Ms Ns complaint
Gallium did not uphold Ms Ns complaint. It said Ms N had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Ms Ns 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Ms Ns complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Ms N as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for her  was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Ms N wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Ms N to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively 
and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Ms 
N for the loss she has suffered.Galliums response to the view
Gallium didnt accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:
Our findings went beyond the scope of Ms Ns complaint.
Regardless of label, Ms N was required to confirm that she met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that she did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude 
that the use of the word everyday contributed to Ms N giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers and confirmations were sufficient for Gallium to 
satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of 
the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Ms N made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it and did 
not chose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So, she would have proceeded with the investment regardless. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I 
have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Ms N into certifying herself as belonging in 
a category to which she did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term 
used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one 
anyone could fall into. This was not treating Ms N fairly or acting in her best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Ms N, it is unlikely she would 
have certified herself as being a restricted investor.
Neither the appropriateness tests carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, nor the 
questions on the ISA form met the requirements of the rules. And, had they have 
done so, it would have been apparent the bonds were not appropriate investments 
for Ms N. In the circumstances Ms N would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly 
and reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the bonds to 
Ms N.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Ms Ns complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Ms N would either not have proceeded to make the 
investments or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Ms N for her loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Ms N 
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not invested in the bonds.
I think Ms N would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Ms N's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate the estate of Ms N fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of each of Ms N's investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Gallium should also pay interest as set out below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
3-Year Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
IFISA Bond - 
July 2017Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
3-Year Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
IFISA Bond - 
August 2017Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Ms N agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Ms N that she repays to Gallium any amount she 
may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms N wanted to achieve a reasonable return without taking a significant risk.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Ms N's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Ms N would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ns complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above and provide details of its calculation in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman