DRN-2243475
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage with PPI in 1997. Halifax told us that the policy covered 
them both and it protected the monthly mortgage repayments in the event that they couldnt 
work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with our 
adjudicator. 
Their main complaint is that the PPI wasnt something they ever asked for and Mr and Mrs F 
say it was added to their account without their knowledge or consent. They told us that they 
felt they had sufficient policies and benefits in place at the time and didnt require a further 
insurance policy.
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Im sorry Mr and Mrs F feel our adjudicator didnt take properly into consideration everything 
theyve said. Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs F that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and 
Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Heres why I say this.
Mr and Mrs F took out the mortgage in joint names and they both had PPI. So Ive looked at 
everything theyve told us about their circumstances when the policy was taken out.  
Theres only limited information. The original paperwork from the sale is no longer available 
and Halifax cant confirm how this PPI was sold. But this isnt a reason for me to uphold the 
complaint. Its not surprising, given how long ago this sale happened, that full paperwork isnt 
still available. I wouldnt reasonably expect Halifax or Mr and Mrs F to have kept this. 
Halifaxs records show that Mr and Mrs F had PPI on their mortgage in 1997. 
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr and Mrs F are certain about everything theyve told us. But 
its unsurprising that Mr and Mrs F told us they couldnt remember some details from this 
sale. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs F to remember exactly what was 
discussed when they took out PPI so long ago. So whilst I understand their concern that the 
PPI wasnt ever mentioned to them and added without them knowing about it, what they say 
isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint about how they were sold 
the PPI. 
In order to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr and Mrs F werent 
given a fair choice about PPI or that it was added to their account without their consent. 
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely  making 
reasonable assumptions where necessary. I must be impartial.
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that it was added to Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage without their consent. 
Heres why I say this.
Their mortgage was a major financial commitment, repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Their home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided dependable protection. It looks to me as if Mr and Mrs F couldve found PPI 
useful if theyd needed to claim. So, I can see why they mightve felt that having PPI was 
worthwhile for them. 
Overall, I dont find the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Halifax didnt 
make it clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs F not to choose PPI if they didnt want to have 
it. On balance, I think its likely that they decided they wanted to have the benefits PPI 
offered and they chose to buy the policy  even if theyve forgotten this now.  
Mr and Mrs F initially (and unsurprisingly after so long) couldnt remember how theyd been 
sold PPI. After thinking about this some more, they now think all communication wouldve 
probably been by post. 
Halifax treated this complaint as if it had personally recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs F in a 
meeting.
Although Mr and Mrs F dont remember Halifax ever personally recommending the PPI to 
them, looking at this complaint on the basis that Halifax advised them to take out PPI with 
their mortgage gives their complaint the best chance of succeeding. Thats because a lender 
making a recommendation about PPI has extra obligations to meet. As well as giving clear 
policy information, Halifax also had to take reasonable steps to make sure the PPI 
recommendation was suitable for Mr and Mrs F. So, given the lack of paperwork and since 
Halifax isnt able to confirm how the policy was sold to Mr and Mrs F, this seems to me to be 
the fairest way to assess their complaint.
Ive looked carefully at what Mr and Mrs F told us about their situation at the time to see if 
PPI was right for them when they took out this mortgage.  
They both had good sick pay arrangements through work. But I think PPI still couldve been 
useful. 
It wouldve paid out in full for up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident and 
sickness. So the PPI provided better protection than Mr and Mrs F couldve relied on getting 
through their employers. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing them with a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if they mightve had some extra costs as a result 
of being sick or disabled. 
PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr F and/or Mrs F 
became unexpectedly unemployed. 
Mr and Mrs F couldve made repeated claims on the policy, giving them long term protection 
for their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs F mentioned having life cover included in their company pensions. But thats a 
benefit that only pays out in the event of death. 
I've also taken carefully into account that Mr and Mrs F told us they had an endowment 
policy in place when they took out their mortgage and that this included sickness and life 
cover. But this doesnt affect my decision. I havent seen anything to show that they already 
had PPI cover in place that covered their mortgage or that the PPI policy duplicated existing 
cover. 
Setting up PPI alongside their mortgage meant they werent at risk of having to cash in an 
endowment policy early - which I think Mr and Mrs F probably wouldve either preferred to 
keep as a long term investment and/or cash in when they could be sure of getting a good 
return. I think that having cover in place so they couldve continued to make their monthly 
mortgage repayments without having to rely on an endowment policy wouldve provided a 
useful extra benefit to Mr and Mrs F if they couldnt work.
And, given what I know about insurance sold alongside endowment policies, I think the 
sickness cover theyve mentioned mightve been critical illness cover  in other words, 
insurance that paid out in the event of long term, serious, life changing or life limiting 
conditions. PPI provided a different sort of benefit and paid out in different circumstances. 
Having PPI meant that Mr and Mrs F could be sure theyd be able to pay their mortgage 
monthly repayments if they couldnt work.  
So I can see why Mr and Mrs F mightve wanted PPI  even if theyve forgotten this now. 
And I think PPI was suitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs F were affected in the long term by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. So, I think it unlikely that better information about the 
policys exclusions and limitations wouldve affected their decision to take it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs F when they bought the policy. 
But they havent suggested that they couldnt afford the monthly premiums. And this was a 
policy they paid for monthly  so they couldve cancelled the PPI at any time if they no longer 
wanted to pay for it or keep the policy running. 
Its possible there mightve been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But I think 
Mr and Mrs F still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been better informed as the 
policy gave them useful protection in their particular situation. 
In coming to my decision I've taken into account what Mr and Mrs F said about the way 
some PPI was sold. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the 
circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on other cases doesnt 
change my conclusion here.  I appreciate that my decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs F, but I hope that setting things out 
as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman