DRN-3058928
The complaint
Mr C would like to make a complaint about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy that 
he says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold to him in 1994.
The credit card and PPI policy were sold by a different business  but HSBC UK Bank Plc 
now has responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint. So, Ill refer to HSBC in this 
decision. 
What happened
Mr C bought the policy in 1994 at the same time as taking out a credit card through the post. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. I know this will be disappointing 
for him, so Ill explain the reasons why.
Mr C applied for his credit card through the post after he was sent an offer for a credit card 
that enabled him to earn rebate points that he could use towards the purchase of a car. He 
says that at the time, there was no mention of PPI on the application from, and when he saw 
the charges for PPI on is statement, he assumed that this was compulsory in order to be 
able to earn the rebate points. 
HSBC no longer has a copy of Mr Cs application  but this isnt unusual for a sale that took 
place so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. But HSBC 
has provided a sample of the application that Mr C wouldve had to complete in order to 
apply for the credit card he held. 
Ive looked at this application, and I can see that it has a separate section for PPI, with 
options to either accept of decline the cover  so it is clear that the PPI was presented as 
optional. There is also a separate section for the rebate points that Mr C has mentioned. 
But this isnt near the PPI section  and no mention of PPI is made within this section. So, I 
dont think that it can be said that in order to get the rebate points, Mr C wouldve needed to 
take out PPI.
And as Mr Cs PPI policy started at the same time as his credit card, I think that Mr C 
wouldve needed to make a choice in the PPI section of the application in order for the PPI 
policy to have been put in place.
So, with this in mind, I think that HSBC made Mr C aware that he had a choice about buying 
the PPI, and that its most likely that he chose to take it  although I can understand why he 
may not remember this, given the time length of time since he made the application. 
HSBC didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was right for him, but 
it did need to give Mr H enough information for him to decide if he thought the PPI was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mr C doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover  and based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful to him. 
Ive taken into account all of Mr Cs comments, but these points dont change my conclusion.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes need
to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements
taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the information Ive
seen these dates dont apply to Mr Cs credit card, and so these rules and guidance dont 
apply.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman