DRN-2203244
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt cancel a direct debit 
and tried to contact him via telephone which is contrary to his communication preference.
What happened
Mr S says he asked Virgin Money to cancel a direct debit to a business I will call S and 
make a Direct Debit Guarantee claim in July 2019. He says Virgin Money didnt cancel the 
direct debit and so caused him inconvenience and distress. Mr S says he wrote to Virgin 
Money about this and it made a telephone call to him which is contrary to his communication 
preferences and against General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR). He says that 
attempted call caused significant distress as the telephone is only used in emergency 
situations and that he is a carer for a disabled person. Mr S says Virgin Money then removed 
his telephone number from its systems which is not what he asked it to do. And says it 
offered him compensation but with certain requirements, which he would like to know if they 
would have prevented him bringing a complaint to us or to court.
Mr S says overall Virgin Moneys actions have had a significant impact on him and its 
compensation offer doesnt consider that impact or his time and cost in writing to it. He says 
Virgin Money has acted against the account terms and conditions by contacting him in this 
way.
Virgin Money says it did reclaim the direct debit from S and paid the money into Mr Ss 
account in July 2019. It accepts it didnt cancel the direct debit as it should have and has 
apologised and paid £25 compensation. Virgin Money has also apologised for the attempted 
call to Mr S and has offered a further £25 compensation.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought that Virgin Money had dealt 
fairly with it. The investigator thought the compensation was fair and reasonable and didnt 
think it our role to say if GDPR were broken as that would be for the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide. The investigator didnt think there was a significant 
impact on Mr S as a result of what took place.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and in summary says the compensation isnt fair and the form 
about the compensation Virgin Money sent needs clarification. He says he made clear that 
Virgin Money should not contact him by telephone and risked fraud by adding his telephone 
number back onto its systems. He also says he incurred costs by contacting S to check if his 
contract was cancelled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Virgin Money has dealt fairly with this 
complaint by apologising for what took place and by paying and offering a fair and 
reasonable level of compensation. I appreciate that Mr S will be disappointed by my 
decision. I also make clear to Mr S that I am only dealing with his complaint about S and 
about the telephone call to him and what took place after that telephone call. 
There is no dispute here that Mr S asked Virgin Money to cancel his direct debit to S and 
make a claim for his last payment to it. I can see that Virgin Money did refund the payment 
but didnt cancel the direct debit. I appreciate Mr Ss frustration in those circumstances and 
that he was caused inconvenience by writing to Virgin Money about this. But Im satisfied 
that Virgin Money has fairly apologised for what took place and paid what I think is a fair and 
reasonable amount of £25 compensation. I think that award fairly reflects what took place 
here and that Mr S didnt suffer any financial loss as a result of the mistake, as S didnt take 
any further payments from Mr S by direct debit. I appreciate Mr S says he had to contact S 
to make sure the contract was cancelled but I think he ought to have done that in any event 
as cancelling a direct debit doesnt bring a contract to an end.
I also accept that Virgin Money should not have tried to contact Mr S by telephone, but I 
think it was trying to speak to him about his complaint. In any event whilst I appreciate what 
Mr S says about the impact of telephone calls, I dont think the call was answered and I dont 
think the impact of the attempted call was significant. I can see that Virgin Money has said it 
has now updated Mr Ss contact preferences and has offered £25 compensation for this part 
of the complaint. Im satisfied that is a fair and reasonable offer for the reasons I have 
explained.
I appreciate Mr S says there was a GDPR breach but that is not something I can consider, 
and I can see the investigator has provided details of the ICO. I also appreciate Mr S would 
like to know what the implications of the form Virgin Money asked him to sign were. I dont 
think that is something I need to comment on as Mr S didnt sign the form and he did bring 
his complaint to us in any event. I make clear that I have not seen any evidence that Virgin 
Money attempted to prevent Mr S bringing a complaint to us or a court. I also make clear to 
Mr S that its not our role to decide if Virgin Money has breached the terms of a contract by 
making the telephone call to him and that it would be for a court to decide upon such 
matters.
Overall, Im satisfied that the compensation paid and offered is fair and reasonable and I will 
leave it to Mr S to decide if he wishes to accept the £25 compensation. I dont think there 
was a risk of fraud by Virgin Money updating the communication preferences and I can only 
consider what did take place in any event.
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has offered a fair and 
reasonable further compensation amount of £25. Mr Ss acceptance of that offer would be in 
full and final settlement of this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman