DRN-3459004
The complaint
Mrs C complains that ReAssure Limited sold her a Personal Pension that she didnt want. 
Mrs C thinks she was too young at the time and felt pressured into the sale.
What happened
In 1992 Mrs C says she visited her bank to make a payment. Whilst in the bank she says an 
adviser approached her about taking out a pension.
It was recorded at the time that Mrs C was 25 years old, working as a chef at a University 
and earning £6,000. The adviser took notes which said she expected to move jobs a number 
of times before retirement. It was also stated there was a discussion of the merits of 
Occupational Pensions versus a Personal Pensions and shed opted for the Personal 
Pension.
Mrs C signed an application form to make regular pension contributions of £30 gross (£22.50 
net) and to contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) investing 
in the Equity Fund. The selected retirement age was 50 for the personal contributions and 60 
for the contracted-out payments. These were the earliest ages allowed at the time. Mrs C 
was recorded as having a balanced attitude to risk. Mrs C continued paying regular 
contributions from 5 March 1992 until 5 July 1995.
In 1995 ReAssure (a business it is now responsible for) contacted Mrs C to check her details 
were up-to date and Mrs C responded to say she was now a housewife and not employed. 
ReAssure refunded the majority of her contributions as shed made them whilst unemployed 
and so they were ineligible.
ReAssure investigated the complaint but they didnt agree the sale was unsuitable and whilst 
they couldnt make a judgement on whether Mrs C was unfairly pressured, she received 
cancellation rights and continued to pay into the pension for a number of years after.
Mrs C told us said she received the cancelation rights but her mother was very ill and she 
didnt want to cause her father further stress at that time.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt the product was suitable for Mrs C at the 
time. Mrs C remained unhappy as she felt she was pressured into buying a product she 
didnt want.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I wont be upholding this complaint, I understand this will be disappointing 
for Mrs C but Ill explain why.
Mrs C has made it clear the reason she is unhappy is that she was pressured into the sale. 
She said she was young at the time, didnt understand pensions and had just gone into the 
bank to make a payment. She feels that a salesman shouldnt have been present in a bank 
and whilst she wasnt forced into buying the product, she felt in a daze and under pressure. 
At the time she had so much going on and didnt want to look into a pension, and this 
negative experience has meant later on in life she has been reluctant to look into taking out 
a pension.
Ive considered what Mrs C has said but its very difficult to make a finding on the conduct of 
the adviser in terms of pressure, without seeing it first-hand or without corroborating 
evidence. What one person perceives as pressure another may not. Sales pressure is partly 
why pension providers have to include cancellation rights, if after the sale the customer feels 
theyve agreed to something they didnt actually need or want, they can cancel the 
agreement. I appreciate Mrs C said she had a lot going on and was looking after her 
terminally ill mother at the time, but she did also continue to make payments until she was 
contacted by ReAssure approximately three years later. 
ReAssure and (perhaps the adviser themselves) wont have been aware Mrs C had felt 
pressured into the sale at the time and she didnt make them aware until nearly thirty years 
later. So Im afraid I dont think its realistic of Mrs C to expect ReAssure or us as an impartial 
decision maker to make a finding in her favour that she was unfairly pressurised into the sale 
and that ReAssure did something wrong in the circumstances. However, I can also look into 
whether the product was unsuitable for her at the time.
Mrs Cs said she was too young to look into a pension, however, she was 25 at the time. 
And she was in employment and says the payments were affordable. Generally, the earlier a 
person starts saving for retirement the better, contributions are tax efficient and the more 
years youre invested for, the more compound growth will come into play, meaning quite 
small investments could produce large funds in retirement. So, I dont think a pension was 
an unsuitable product for Mrs C at the time.
It appears Mrs C had an Occupational Pension she could potentially have joined at the time 
(which usually would be advantageous when compared with a Personal Pension as the 
employer would contribute), but it was recorded this had been discussed but Mrs C would 
likely change jobs in the future and therefore a Personal Pension was better suited. In reality 
Mrs C did leave employment within a year and even if the adviser had recommended she 
contribute to the Occupational Pension instead of taking out a Personal Pension, she 
wouldnt have received any benefit as the scheme would only retain pension funds for those 
who contributed for more than two years. On balance it appears given what happened and 
that Mrs Cs occupation is one with high turnover, what was discussed was likely an 
accurate reflection of events and therefore a Personal Pension wasnt unsuitable for Mrs C.
Mrs C was also contracted out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS), 
this meant that instead of her National Insurance contributions going towards SERPS, 
instead they were redirected into her Personal Pension with the idea that they grow in 
excess of what would be received had they not been redirected. As the investigator has 
already explained, Mrs C met all the requirements at the time for someone who it was 
thought would likely benefit from contracting out of SERPS, so I dont think this 
recommendation was unsuitable.
In conclusion, Mrs Cs complaint seems largely to be about the way the pension was sold 
and the effect this has had on her. But as Ive explained there isnt any supporting evidence 
to say the adviser did something wrong. And what happened after the sale doesnt match the 
behaviour of someone who didnt want the pension. Mrs C didnt cancel the pension despite 
receiving the cancellation forms and she chose to continue paying into the pension for years 
after, until ReAssure stopped her contributions. I dont doubt what Mrs C has told us about 
how she felt at the time but the issue is that I cant conclude that ReAssure wouldve known this as she didnt tell them until thirty years later. So any opportunity to put things right was 
lost and Mrs C didnt take the opportunity herself to terminate the contract.
Having looked into the sale of the pension and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, I dont 
think it was unsuitable for her.
So, I dont think ReAssure needs to do anything. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman