DRN-3868903
The complaint
Mr D complains about the service he received from National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) when trying to repay his overdraft. He says he had to spend two hours on the 
phone trying to fix a problem that should have been easy to solve. 
What happened
Mr D called NatWest on 7 November 2020 in order to repay his overdraft. Mr D began the 
call at 11.40 and didnt get through to the collections department to make the payment until 
1.25pm.
During the call Mr D was advised he needed to talk to collections and was put through to the 
incorrect department on more than one occasion and was disconnected resulting in Mr D 
having to start the process again. 
Mr D complained to NatWest about this. NatWest agreed that Mr D hadnt received the 
customer service he should of, apologised for this and offered compensation of £30 for the 
inconvenience caused.
Mr D was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and agreed that the service Mr D had received couldve 
been better but thought that the offer of £30 was fair compensation for this.
Mr D disagreed he thinks £30 compensation isnt appropriate for two hours spent on the 
phone. So Mr Ds complaint is being progressed for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr D wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And we may award modest compensation. 
This service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses we cover. And my role 
isnt to punish or penalise businesses for their performance or behaviour  thats the role of 
the regulator, in this case the Financial Conduct Authority.
In the background Ive given a summary of the events that happened giving rise to Mr Ds 
complaint. NatWest has confirmed the payment Mr D was trying to make has been made 
and this issue is now settled. And NatWest has already accepted that the customer service 
Mr D received wasnt as good as it shouldve been in that Mr D spent two hours on the 
phone, was incorrectly put through to the wrong department and had his call disconnected.  
So I dont need to make a finding here. What I need to consider is whether the £30 
compensation offered to Mr D for the distress and inconvenience this caused is enough.  
I dont think there is any doubt that two hours on the phone and having your call 
disconnected inconvenienced Mr D. But things dont always go smoothly and as has already 
been explained above our role isnt to penalise or punish a business when a business makes 
a mistake  rather it is to try and put the consumer in back in the position they wouldve been 
in if the mistake had not have happened. NatWest have confirmed Mr D was able to make 
the payment and offered £30 compensation for the inconvenience he experienced while 
trying to do this. 
Mr D hasnt provided any evidence of financial loss resulting from the service he received 
from NatWest, so taking everything into consideration Im not persuaded that compensation 
above that already offered by NatWest is warranted or going to make a material difference to 
what happened. 
So on that basis I think NatWest the £30 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
Mr D experienced when trying to make a payment is a fair and reasonable way to settle Mr 
Ds complaint and Im not going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I think National Westminster Bank Plcs offer of £30 
compensation is a fair way to settle Mr Ds complaint and Im not going to ask it to do 
anything more.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman