DRN-3423176
The complaint
Miss Q complains that London & Colonial Services Limited (L&C) shouldnt have accepted 
her application for a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) from The Alliance Partnership 
s.r.o. (TAP). Miss Q complains that TAP was unregulated and that insufficient due diligence 
was undertaken on investments that were made within her SIPP.
What happened
Involved Parties
London & Colonial Services Limited 
L&Cs a regulated pension provider and administrator. Its authorised to arrange deals in 
investments, deal in investments as principal, establish, operate or wind up a personal 
pension scheme and to make arrangements with a view to transactions in investments. 
The Alliance Partnership s.r.o.
TAPs an EEA authorised financial advisory firm based in the Czech Republic. TAP had 
passported into the UK under the Insurance Mediation Directive (IMD) and, at the relevant 
date, was permitted to carry out some regulated activities in the UK. The FCA register shows 
that TAP had passported permissions in the UK from 19 November 2008 and that a 
supervisory run off has been in place since 6 April 2021.
Hansard Europe Limited
Hansard Europe Limited (Hansard) was registered in Dublin. It provided a product through 
which investors could invest in a number of holdings. 
L&C and TAPs relationship
As part of our investigation, L&C was asked a series of detailed questions about the due 
diligence it undertook into the introducer (which in this complaint was TAP) and into the 
investment(s) that were made with monies in the SIPP. Some of the questions asked 
included: details about the levels of business L&C received from the introducer, whether 
there was an agreement in place between L&C and the introducer, what due diligence it did 
on the introducer, what its understanding of the introducers business model was, whether it 
undertook any ongoing checks on the introducer, why any agreement in effect between it 
and the introducer ended, what proportion of business it received from the introducer 
involved transfers from occupational pension schemes and copies of correspondence 
relating to any due diligence it conducted on the investments made by the consumer.
Having asked L&C for this information, we subsequently chased it for a reply but weve not 
received a substantive response to our enquiries from L&C. 
So, L&Cs provided us with very little information about its relationship with TAP. However, 
on a previous case L&C provided us with the below screenshot from 26 November 2010, to 
show us how the register looked when it checked before accepting business from TAP:
I think its likely that that L&Cs relationship with TAP began around the date of the above 
screenshot. And I think its likely its relationship with TAP ended towards the end of 2011. I 
say this because L&C wrote to Miss Q in November 2011 and informed her that it no longer 
had a relationship with TAP. And that it wouldnt be able to accept any instructions on Miss 
Qs pension arrangements from Mr G. 
What happened
Miss Qs representatives say that TAP advised her to open the L&C SIPP and to transfer 
existing pension monies into that arrangement.
Miss Q had signed the L&C SIPP application form in March 2011. In the form Mr G (Mrs G 
appears to be stated in the form but the first and surname appear to be those of Mr G) is 
recorded as the IFA contact and the IFA firm is recorded as:
THE ALLIANCE PARTNERSHIP LTD 26780267 PO BOX 267, Goole, East Yorkshire, 
DN14 4AX.
The FSA authorisation number given for the firm, 26780267, is an identification number 
linked to TAP in the Czech Republic. 
The application form records the remuneration to be paid to the adviser as 6% initial and 1% 
ongoing and that TAP was to be the investment manager. 
It was also stated in the form that monies were to be transferred in from existing pension 
plans and £40,000 was to be initially invested in the Hansard Signature Bond. 
L&C wrote to TAP and Miss Q on 15 April 2011 to confirm the SIPP had been established.
Mr G of TAP certified a copy of identity documents for Miss Q on 26 April 2011. And a letter 
was sent to L&C in May 2011 explaining that an application for Miss Q was enclosed, that 
L&C should keep the identity documents to send on to Hansard and that a fund adviser form 
was attached for signature, which was also to be forwarded on to Hansard. 
L&C sent a Proposal Form for a Signature Bond Plus investment to Hansard on 18 May 
2011.
On Miss Qs Hansard Proposal Form, the independent financial adviser is recorded as Mr 
G of TAP. A representative of L&C has signed the form on 18 May 2011, its noted that this 
is For and on behalf of London & Colonial Services at the direction of (Miss Q). Its also 
noted that the country of point of sale is the UK and that the selling broker is Mr G. Mr Gs 
signed the form on 7 April 2011 and its recorded that hes regulated/authorised by the 
Czech National Bank.
Hansard wrote to L&C on 27 May 2011 to confirm that Miss Qs application had been 
processed.
Hansard Portfolio Bond deal instruction forms (dealing sheets) were also completed. The 
forms state theyre from TAP. A TAP adviser is named in the forms along with details of the 
investments to be purchased. The forms have been signed by L&C For and on behalf of 
London & Colonial Services Ltd at the direction of (Miss Q). 
On 21 November 2011, L&C wrote to Miss Q and informed her that it no longer had a 
relationship with TAP. And that it wouldnt be able to accept any instructions on Miss Qs 
pension arrangements from Mr G.
In January 2012, L&C received correspondence from a different advisory firm, 1 Stop 
Financial Services. This included a series of questions and a letter of authority from Miss Q.
A little while later, in February 2012, monies were realised from the Hansard Signature Bond 
Plus investment. The bulk of the monies realised were then reinvested in a Carbon Credits 
holding.
L&C sent Miss Q a statement in April 2012, this valued her SIPP at around £25,000.
A transaction history shows that a little over £36,000 was transferred into Miss Qs L&C 
SIPP in April 2011, there were then further transfers in of a little under £2,600 in May 2011. 
And a little under £35,000 was invested into the Hansard Signature Bond Plus investment in 
May 2011. Adviser fees of a little over £2,300 were paid to TAP in May 2011. 
A little under £25,000 was realised from the Hansard Signature Bond Plus investment in 
February 2012, with a little under £24,000 of this being reinvested in the Carbon Advice 
Group shortly thereafter. 
Miss Q complained to L&C through a representative, a claims management company 
(CMC), in February 2020. In response to the complaint L&C said, amongst other things, 
that:
Hansard Europe Limited is regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland.
The Irish financial regulator is a regulator of parallel standards to the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).
Miss Qs adviser had sent it an investment application form that Miss Q completed, 
this included a signed declaration confirming that Miss Q had read, and agreed to, 
the risks of investing.
It provides execution-only SIPP administration services and its complied with its 
regulatory and contractual obligations.
It complied with its requirement under the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 
Rules, specifically COBS 11.2.19, to execute Miss Qs instructions.
While Miss Q believed it shouldnt have accepted business from TAP, it was Miss Qs 
decision to use TAP. 
It isnt permitted to provide advice or comment on the suitability of establishing a 
SIPP, transferring pensions, or the investments made with SIPP monies.It isnt permitted to comment on the suitability of a customers choice of introducer.
It completed due diligence on TAP including obtaining a completed introducer profile.
Company checks and a signed Terms of Business were in place before L&C 
accepted Miss Qs application form. 
There was no reason for it to believe that it shouldnt accept introductions from TAP 
and doing so was within the regulatory rules that were in place.
Miss Q was fully aware that TAP wasnt a regulated firm.
TAP had no involvement in Miss Qs decision to disinvest from the Hansard 
Signature Bond Plus investment and reinvest monies into Carbon Credits.
L&C provided Miss Q with information about her Hansard Signature Bond Plus 
investment, this included information about penalties for encashing the investment 
early and it was Miss Qs decision to accept these penalties.
Miss Q was guided by L&C to obtain regulated financial advice if she was unsure of 
any of the documentation, or information she received.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Qs complaint. The investigator explained to the 
parties that shed identified that Miss Q had made two separate complaints in her 
submissions. 
The first complaint, which this decision concerns, addresses the issues Miss Qs raised 
around the establishment of the SIPP and the transfer of monies into the SIPP, along with 
the investment of the transferred monies into the Hansard Signature Bond Plus wrapper.
The second complaint, considered elsewhere, addresses concerns Miss Qs raised around a 
Carbon Credits investment that was made after Miss Qs investment with Hansard was 
realised.
The investigator concluded that Miss Qs first complaint, the one Im considering here, 
should be upheld. She said that the complaint had been raised in time and that L&C, as a 
SIPP operator, should have known that TAP was carrying out activities that it didnt have the 
necessary permissions to perform in the UK. And that L&C shouldnt have accepted Miss 
Qs introduction from TAP.
Our investigator also thought there were anomalous features to the business being 
introduced by TAP which meant that, it wasnt fair and reasonable for L&C to accept 
business from TAP. Our investigator concluded that it was fair and reasonable for L&C to 
compensate Miss Q for her financial loss. 
L&C replied to the investigators view to request an extension to respond, but no further 
submissions from L&C were forthcoming.
In response to the investigators view Miss Q said that she was happy with the findings but 
that shed prefer for the redress to be paid directly to her rather than into the SIPP.
Because agreement couldnt be reached, this complaints been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
As a preliminary point, I should emphasise that in this decision Im only considering Miss Qs 
complaint about the establishment of the SIPP and the transfer of monies into the SIPP, 
along with the initial investment of the transferred monies. As the investigator explained, weve set up a second complaint to look at the concerns Miss Qs raised around a Carbon 
Credits investment that was made at a later date in 2012.
jurisdiction
L&Cs not responded to the investigators view, so its not apparent whether it agrees with 
the investigators conclusion that this complaint was made in time. As L&Cs not clarified 
this, for completeness, Ive first considered jurisdiction. And, as Ive explained below, I agree 
with what the investigators said about this.
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments in order to decide whether we can consider 
Miss Qs complaint.
The rules I must follow in determining whether we can consider this complaint are set out in 
the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, published as part of the FCAs Handbook.
Has the complaint been brought in time?
The section of the rules that applies to this complaint means that, unless L&C consents, we 
cant look into this complaint if its been brought:
more than six years after the event complained of;
or, if later, more than three years after Miss Q was aware  or ought reasonably to 
have become aware  she had cause for complaint;
ounless the complaint was brought within the time limits, and theres a written 
acknowledgement or some other record of it having been received; or
ounless, in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time 
limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Miss Qs representatives referred this complaint to L&C in February 2020, the complaint they 
raised was fairly technical and went into quite a lot of detail. There are various strands to 
Miss Qs complaint but, overall, the crux of the complaint is that L&C didnt carry out 
sufficient checks when it accepted Miss Qs business from TAP and that insufficient due 
diligence was undertaken on investments made within the SIPP. 
The SIPP was in force by April 2011 and monies were transferred into the SIPP and 
invested in the Hansard Signature Bond Plus wrapper shortly thereafter. All of which 
occurred more than six years before Miss Q had referred her complaint to either L&C or us.
So, Ive also gone on to consider whether Miss Q referred her complaint more than three 
years from the date on which she either was aware, or ought reasonably to have become 
aware, she had cause for complaint. And when I say here cause for complaint, I mean cause 
to make this complaint about this respondent firm, L&C, not just knowledge of cause to 
complain about anyone at all.
There are a number of points that I think are relevant to this discussion:
In order to be aware of cause for complaint the complainant should reasonably know 
theres a problem, that they have or may suffer loss, and that someone else is 
responsible for the problem - and who that someone is. So, to have knowledge of 
cause for complaint about L&C, Miss Q needs to be aware, or should reasonably be 
aware, that theres a problem which has caused, or may cause, her loss and that 
L&Cs responsible.Miss Q transferred around £38,500 into her SIPP in 2011 and a little under £35,000 
was invested into the Hansard Signature Bond Plus investment in May 2011. A little 
under £25,000 was realised from that investment in February 2012 and in April 2012 
Miss Q received an annual statement that valued her SIPP at around £25,000. I think 
the level of losses suffered in a year would have been disconcerting to most ordinary 
retail investors in Miss Qs position. And the information Miss Q was sent would, in 
my view, have made them think that something had gone wrong, or might be going 
wrong, in relation to their pension. I think its unlikely this is what Miss Q was 
expecting, or what she would have thought was reasonable for her investments.
I accept that the information sent to Miss Q meant she was aware, or should 
reasonably have been aware, that there was a problem with her pension and that 
shed been caused some loss or damage. 
Theres nothing Ive seen that was sent to Miss Q more than three years before her 
complaint was referred to L&C that links L&C to the losses her pension monies had 
suffered. Like the investigator, I think its worth highlighting that Miss Q wasnt 
advised by L&C about setting up the SIPP or the suitability of investments. And I 
think the obvious first thought when losses were suffered would have been that her 
financial advisers might have given poor advice. In my view, theres nothing in the 
correspondence sent to Miss Q that would indicate to a reasonable retail investor in 
Miss Qs position that L&C had responsibility for the position Miss Q was in  the 
position of having a SIPP with investments in it that were performing badly.
Ive seen no evidence that Miss Q had been told by any third party, and more than 
three years prior to her CMC raising a complaint with L&C in February 2020, that 
L&C may have done something wrong and might be wholly or partly responsible for 
the position she was in.     
The regulator published reports on the results of two thematic reviews on SIPP 
operators in 2009 and 2012, issued guidance for SIPP operators in 2013 and wrote 
to the CEOs of SIPP operators in 2014.  A common theme of those communications 
is that the regulator considered that SIPP operators had obligations in relation to their 
customers even where they dont give advice, and that many SIPP operators had a 
poor understanding of those obligations.  
In the circumstances I dont consider that Miss Q should have had an understanding 
of the obligations SIPP providers were under more than three years before Miss Q 
referred her complaint to L&C. 
Ive carefully considered all the evidence weve been provided and, on balance, I think 
Miss Qs individual circumstances were such that a reasonable investor in her position 
wouldnt have concluded that her SIPP operator had done something wrong more than three 
years before Miss Qs complaint was raised with L&C. 
Like the investigator, I dont think that Miss Q was aware (or ought reasonably to have 
become aware) that she had cause for complaint against L&C more than three years before 
her complaint was referred to L&C. 
So, Im satisfied this complaints been brought in time and that its one we can consider. 
merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account of 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, its appropriate to take an 
inquisitorial approach. And, ultimately, what Ill be looking at here is whether L&C took 
reasonable care, acted with due diligence and treated Miss Q fairly, in accordance with her 
best interests. And what I thinks fair and reasonable in light of that. And I think the key issue 
in Miss Qs complaint is whether it was fair and reasonable for L&C to have accepted 
Miss Qs SIPP application in the first place. So, I need to consider whether L&C carried out 
appropriate due diligence checks on TAP before deciding to accept Miss Qs SIPP 
application from it.
Relevant considerations
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 provide: 
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman whod upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and hadnt treated 
its client fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL): 
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which Ive 
described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time 
as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments when making this decision on Miss Qs case. 
I note that the Principles for Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of the judgments say anything 
about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be 
clear, I dont say this means Adams isnt a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, Ive 
taken account of both judgments when making this decision on Miss Qs case. 
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim, on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically 
different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams 
appeal didnt so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had 
dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
In Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case would inform 
the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction. 
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and the issues in Miss Qs complaint. The breaches were summarised in 
paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he wasnt 
asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the 
store pods investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different.  
So Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R  alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Miss Qs case, including L&Cs role in the transaction.  
I think its also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference to 
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in doing 
that, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which include: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This is 
a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in Adams 
v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in Mr 
Adams statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise that I dont say that L&C was under any obligation to advise Miss Q 
on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an application isnt the 
same thing as advising on the merits of investing and/or transferring to the SIPP. So, to be 
clear, Ive proceeded on the understanding L&C wasnt obliged  and wasnt able  to give 
advice to Miss Q on the suitability of its SIPP or the investments Miss Q made within her 
SIPP. But Im satisfied L&Cs obligations included deciding whether to accept introductions 
of business from particular businesses and/or whether to accept particular investments into 
its SIPP. 
Having carefully considered the relevant considerations Im satisfied that, in order to meet 
the appropriate standards of good industry practice and the obligations set by the regulators 
rules and regulations, L&C should have carried out due diligence on TAP to the sort of 
standard which was consistent with good industry practice and its regulatory obligations at 
the time. And that L&C should also have carried out due diligence on any investments to be 
held within the SIPP which was consistent with good industry practice and its regulatory 
obligations at the time. L&C should have used the knowledge it gained from that due diligence to decide whether to accept or reject a referral of business or a particular 
investment. 
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the Financial Services Authority (FSA)) issued a number of 
publications which reminded SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they 
might achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement: 
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. 
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.

We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to 
clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their customers 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for 
this.
The later publications 
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA stated: 
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in 
April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a client 
for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators 
responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business warnings. Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with. 
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from 
the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns. 
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the 
scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, 
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been approved 
by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently, and
ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc.)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications to illustrate their relevance, Ive 
considered them in their entirety. 
I acknowledge that the 2009 report (and the 2012 report and the Dear CEO letter) arent 
formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, in my view the fact that 
the reports and Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal (i.e. statutory) guidance doesnt 
mean their importance or relevance should be underestimated.
The publications provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure its treating its customers 
fairly and to produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, these 
publications also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice 
at the relevant time. Im therefore satisfied its appropriate to take them into account.  Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman. 
And I dont think the fact the publications, (other than the 2009 Thematic Review Report), 
post-date the events that took place in relation to Miss Qs complaint, mean that the 
examples of good practice they provide werent good practice at the time of the relevant 
events. Although the later publications were published after the events subject to this 
complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act 
in accordance with the Principles. 
Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports (and the Dear 
CEO letter in 2014) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the 
regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good 
practice standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, its 
clear the standards themselves hadnt changed.
The judge in the Adams case didnt consider the 2012 Thematic Review Report, 2013 SIPP 
operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance to his consideration of Mr 
Adams claim. But it doesnt follow that those publications are irrelevant to my consideration 
of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im required to take into 
account good industry practice at the relevant time. And, as mentioned, the publications 
indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant time.
Its important to keep in mind the judge in Adams v Options didnt consider the regulatory 
publications in the context of considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
bearing in mind various matters including the Principles (as part of the regulators rules) or 
good industry practice.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, Ill only consider L&Cs 
actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave non-
exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They didnt say the suggestions given were 
the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, 
what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances. 
To be clear, I dont say the Principles or the publications obliged L&C to ensure the SIPP 
and subsequent investments were suitable for Miss Q. Its accepted L&C wasnt required to 
give advice to Miss Q, and couldnt give advice. And I accept the publications dont alter the 
meaning of, or the scope of, the Principles. But theyre evidence of what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles. 
Further, even if I considered that any publications or guidance that post-dated the events 
subject of this complaint dont help to clarify the type of good industry practice that existed at 
the relevant time (which I dont), that doesnt alter my view on what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time. Thats because I find that the 2009 Report together with 
the Principles provide a very clear indication of what L&C could and should have done to 
comply with its regulatory obligations that existed at the relevant time before accepting 
Miss Qs introduction from TAP.
Ultimately, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether L&C complied with its 
regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, to 
take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay due regards to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the publications listed 
above to provide an indication of what L&C could have done to comply with its regulatory 
obligations. 
What did L&Cs obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business L&C was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im satisfied that 
meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. 
The regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed by 
the FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that a 
particular introducer is appropriate to deal with.
As I explain further below, I think L&C ought to have identified that TAP was most likely 
carrying out regulated activities relating to arranging and advising on investments.
TAPs regulatory status
Under Article 2 of the Insurance Mediation Directive 2002/92/EC, insurance mediation and 
reinsurance mediation are defined as: 
3. insurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying 
out other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of insurance, or of 
concluding such contracts, or of assisting in the administration and performance of 
such contracts, in particular in the event of a claim.

4. reinsurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying 
out other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of reinsurance, or of 
concluding such contracts, or of assisting in the administration and performance of 
such contracts, in particular in the event of a claim. 
In the FSAs consultation paper 201, entitled Implementation of the Insurance Mediation 
Directive for Long-term insurance business its stated (on page 7): 
We are implementing the IMD for general insurance and pure protection business 
from January 2005 (when they will require authorisation).
Unlike general insurance and pure protection policies, the sale of life and pensions 
policies is already regulated. Life and pensions intermediaries must be authorised by 
us and are subject to our regulation.
Chapter 12 of the FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) offers guidance to persons, 
such as L&C, running personal pension schemes. The guidance in place at the time the 
application was made for Miss Qs SIPP confirms that a personal pension scheme, for the 
purpose of regulated activities (PERG 12.2): 
is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (the Regulated Activities Order) as any scheme other than an occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) or a stakeholder pension scheme that is to provide benefits for people:
on retirement; or
on reaching a particular age; or
on termination of service in an employment.It goes on to say:
This will include self-invested personal pension schemes ('SIPPs') as well as 
personal pensions provided to consumers by product companies such as insurers, 
unit trust managers, contractual scheme managers or deposit takers (including free-
standing voluntary contribution schemes).
So, under the Regulated Activities Order, a SIPP is a personal pension scheme. Article 82 of 
the Regulated Activities Order (Part III Specified Investments) provides that rights under a 
personal pension scheme are a specified investment.
 
L&C itself had regulatory permission to establish and operate personal pension schemes  a 
regulated activity under Article 52 of the Regulated Activities Order. 
At the time of Miss Qs application, SUP App 3 of the regulators Handbook set out guidance 
on passporting issues and SUP App 3.9.7G provided the following table of permissible 
activities under Article 2(3) of the Insurance Mediation Directive in terms of the attendant 
Regulated Activities Order Article number: 
Table 2B: Insurance Mediation Directive 2 
Activities 
2 Part II RAO 
Activities Part III RAO 
Investments 
1.Introducing, proposing or carrying out other work 
preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of 
insurance.Articles 25, 53 
and 64Articles 75, 89 
(see Note 1)
2.Concluding contracts of insurance Articles 21, 25, 
53 and 64Articles 75, 89
3.Assisting in the administration and performance of 
contracts of insurance, in particular in the event of 
a claim.Articles 39A, 64 Articles 75, 89
The guidance in SUP 13A.1.2G of the Handbook at the time of Miss Qs application for the 
SIPP explains that an EEA firm wishing to carry on activities in the UK which are outside the 
scope of its EEA rights (i.e. its passporting rights) will require a top-up permission under 
Part IV of the Act (the Act being FSMA). In other words, it needs top-up permissions from 
the regulator to carry on regulated activities which arent covered by its IMD passport rights.
The relevant rules regarding top-up permissions could be found in the Handbook at SUP 
13A.7. SUP 13A.7.1G states (as at April 2011): 
If a person established in the EEA: 
(1) does not have an EEA right; 
(2) does not have permission as a UCITS qualifier; and
(3) does not have, or does not wish to exercise, a Treaty right (see SUP 13A.3.4 G 
to SUP 13A.3.11 G);
to carry on a particular regulated activity in the United Kingdom, it must seek Part 
IV permission from the FSA to do so (see the FSA website "How do I get authorised": http://www.fsa.gov.uk/Pages/Doing/how/index.shtml). This might 
arise if the activity itself is outside the scope of the Single Market Directives, or 
where the activity is included in the scope of a Single Market Directive but is not 
covered by the EEA firm's Home State authorisation. If a person also qualifies 
for authorisation under Schedules 3, 4 or 5 of the Act as a result of its other 
activities, the Part IV permission is referred to in the Handbook as a top-up 
permission.
In the glossary section of the regulators Handbook EEA authorisation is defined (as at April 
2011) as: 
(in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 3 to the Act (EEA Passport Rights)):
(a) in relation to an IMD insurance intermediary or an IMD reinsurance 
intermediary, registration with its Home State regulator under article 3 of the 
Insurance Mediation Directive;
(b) in relation to any other EEA firm, authorisation granted to an EEA firm by 
its Home State regulator for the purpose of the relevant Single Market 
Directive.
The guidance at SUP App 3 of the FSA Handbook (which Ive set out above) was readily 
available in 2011 and clearly illustrated that EEA-authorised firms may only carry out 
specified regulated activities in the UK if they have the relevant EEA passport rights. 
In this case the regulated activities in question didnt fall under IMD passporting, and they 
required FSA permission for TAP to conduct them in the UK. L&C, acting in accordance with 
its own regulatory obligations, should have ensured it understood the relevant rules, 
guidance and legislation Ive referred to above, (or sought advice on this, to ensure it could 
gain the proper understanding), when considering whether to accept business from TAP, 
which was an EEA firm passporting into the UK. It should therefore have known - or have 
checked and discovered - that a business based in the Czech Republic that was EEA-
authorised needed to have top-up permissions to give advice and make arrangements in 
relation to personal pensions in the UK. And that top-up permissions had to be granted by 
the the UK regulator, then the FSA.
The activities undertaken by TAP 
I think the available evidence indicates TAP was carrying out regulated activities. Rights 
under a personal pension scheme are a security and relevant investment. Under Article 
25(1) of the Regulated Activity Order (RAO), making arrangements for another person to 
buy and sell these types of investments is a regulated activity. And under Article 25(2) of the 
RAO, making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the arrangements 
buying and selling these types of investments is also a regulated activity.
In my view, TAP was carrying out regulated activities within Article 25 of the RAO  and this 
ought to have been clear to L&C at the time. 
The regulators Perimeter Guidance Manual says the following about Article 25(1):
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at 
arrangements that would have the direct effect that a particular transaction is 
concluded (that is, arrangements that bring it about). 
It then says the following about Article 25(2): The activity of making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments is 
concerned with arrangements of an ongoing nature whose purpose is to facilitate the 
entering into of transactions by other parties. This activity has a potentially broad 
scope and typically applies in one of two scenarios. These are where a person 
provides arrangements of some kind: 
 
1. to enable or assist investors to deal with or through a particular firm (such 
as the arrangements made by introducers); or
2. to facilitate the entering into of transactions directly by the parties (such as 
multilateral trading facilities of any kind exchanges, clearing houses and 
service companies (for example, persons who provide communication 
facilities for the routing of orders or the negotiation of transactions)).
I think TAPs activities here amounted to the regulated activity of making arrangements for 
the SIPP under one or other or both of the Article 25 provisions. 
But even if I thought that TAP wasnt acting beyond its permissions by making arrangements 
(which I dont), I think it was also undertaking another regulated activity for which it didnt 
have the requisite permissions. I say this because, I think TAP was advising on Miss Qs 
pension switch. 
Under the RAO, a SIPP is a personal pension scheme. Article 82 of the RAO (Part III 
Specified Investments) provides that rights under a personal pension scheme are a specified 
investment. Article 82 investments arent covered by the IMD.
At the point of the SIPP application, TAP was listed as being the IFA and an investment 
manager. The given remuneration in the form was to be paid to the financial adviser. 
Further, from her complaint to L&C, Im also satisfied that Miss Q understood TAP to be 
acting as her financial adviser.
And I think that L&C also understood this to be the case. I say that because in its final 
response letter to Miss Q, L&Cs said that:
The Application Form confirmed that she had appointed The Alliance Partnership 
Limited, as her financial adviser and that she intended to transfer her (existing 
pension plans) into a London & Colonial SIPP following the advice (Miss Q) received 
from (Mr G) of The Alliance Partnership Limited. (Miss Q) also stated on her 
application form that she had decided, prior to approaching London & Colonial that 
she wished to invest her funds into the Hansard Signature Bond, following (Mr Gs) 
advice.
So, I think L&Cs understanding at the time of the transaction thats the subject of this 
complaint was that TAP was giving advice on the switch to the SIPP, and the initial 
investment of monies post-transfer, and that it was permitted to do so. L&C should 
reasonably have understood the applicable regulations and, therefore, have readily identified 
that TAP was carrying out regulated activities without the requisite permissions from the 
regulator and that there was a clear risk of consumer detriment in accepting introductions in 
these circumstances. Because TAP, holding only IMD permissions, was advising on article 
82 investments.  
I think L&C should have been aware that TAP was giving advice on the switch to its SIPP, in 
addition to advising on investments. Its difficult to see otherwise how people were ending up in its SIPP. I havent seen any evidence to show L&C took steps to understand how the 
business was coming about in the alternative. 
I dont find it plausible that TAPs advice was limited to advising on the Hansard Signature 
Bond Plus wrapper/or the investments within it. That advice was only made possible by way 
of the pension switch into the L&C SIPP. That was the source of the monies in respect of 
which the Hansard Signature Bond Plus advice was being given, but for the switch the 
investment advice wouldnt have been possible because there wouldnt have been funds 
available for investment  any separation of the two under the circumstances would be 
artificial. 
Im satisfied that TAP was appointed as Miss Qs financial adviser in respect of her SIPP as 
noted on the SIPP application form. And that it was providing her with advice in respect of 
this transaction. 
Taking everything into account Im satisfied that TAP was advising on the pension switch 
and that L&C understood this to be the case, or would have understood this to be the case if 
it had undertaken sufficient due diligence into TAP. 
All in all, I think its fair and reasonable to say that L&C, had it acted in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations and the standards of good practice at the time, ought to have known 
TAP was carrying out regulated activities relating to arranging and advising in relation to 
personal pensions in the UK, for which it didnt have the requisite permissions. In turn, taking 
everything into account, it wasnt fair and reasonable for L&C to accept Miss Qs application 
in such circumstances. 
Checks L&C undertook on TAP
As mentioned earlier, as part of our investigation L&C was asked a series of questions about 
the due diligence it undertook into TAP but weve not received a substantive response from 
L&C to those enquiries. 
Under DISP 3.5.9 (3) R I may reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and 
take account of the failure by a party to provide information requested.
I think the regulatory publications Ive referenced earlier in this decision show that it was 
good practice to confirm both initially, and on an ongoing basis, that introducers that advise 
clients have the appropriate regulatory permissions. And I think thats applicable whether an 
advisory firm is UK based or else if its passporting into the UK.
On a previous case L&C provided us with a 26 November 2010 screenshot of a page from 
TAPs entry on the FSA register. But that page wasnt all that L&C should have checked, as 
that page wouldnt have been sufficient for L&C to be able to conclude that TAP had the 
required top-up permissions to advise on, or arrange, personal pensions in the UK. So I 
think its fair to say L&C ought to have checked TAPs Permission page. Had it done so Im 
satisfied its most likely that it would have discovered that TAP didnt have the necessary 
top-up permissions.
In the unlikely eventuality that the register didnt make it clear whether TAP had the 
necessary top-up permissions. for example, if the Permission page had erroneously been 
left blank, L&C ought to have taken further steps to independently verify what the correct 
position was  for example by contacting the FSA. And I think the FSA would have 
confirmed whether TAP held any top-up permissions.Alternatively, if L&C was unable to independently verify TAPs permissions, I think its fair 
and reasonable to say that L&C should have then concluded that it was unsafe to proceed 
with accepting business from TAP in those circumstances. In my opinion, it wasnt 
reasonable, and it wasnt in-line with L&Cs regulatory obligations, for it to proceed with 
accepting business from TAP if the position wasnt clear.  
Summary
So, to summarise, I think that TAP carried on activities for which it didnt have regulatory 
permission in the UK. I think it advised Miss Q to switch to the SIPP from her existing 
pension plans and made arrangements for the switch to take place. 
In the circumstances, I think L&C should have known what activities TAP was carrying out 
and that it didnt have the regulatory permissions to do so. Acting fairly and reasonably, I 
think that L&C should have rejected this business. I think its fair and reasonable to uphold 
this complaint on this basis alone. However, for completeness, Ive also gone on to consider 
what other conclusions L&C should have drawn if acting fairly and reasonably. 
The nature of the introduction from TAP (anomalous features)
There were anomalous features in the business TAP introduced to L&C that ought to have 
given rise to concerns about the risk of significant consumer detriment. 
The domicile of TAP: 
Pension business from a UK client, advised by a Czech advisory firm despite no obvious 
connection with the country, going into a SIPP to invest through a wrapper based offshore 
(in this case in Dublin) is anomalous in and of itself. 
The fact that TAP was domiciled outside the United Kingdom was a conspicuous and 
anomalous feature, in light of the business it referred to L&C. In my view that fact ought to 
have highlighted the need to make sure the EEA firm had the correct permission to conduct 
the business being proposed  i.e. a heightened check on the firms permissions (as above). 
Adviser remuneration:
TAP received an initial payment of 6% of the monies Miss Q invested with L&C. On top of 
this, TAP would also receive an annual investment adviser fee of 1% of the policy value.
I consider the level of remuneration paid to TAP in this case to have been an anomalous 
feature. While theres no absolute benchmark for reasonable adviser charging, its my view 
that a 6% initial, and 1% ongoing, fee in these circumstances was higher than what Id 
consider to be reasonable. And, at the very least, I think that L&C ought to have flagged at 
outset that the initial charges imposed on Miss Qs pension monies were potentially high.
Summary
In summary, Im satisfied L&C either knew, or ought to have known if it acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations that: 
TAP was undertaking regulated activities beyond the scope of its permissions. 
The domicile of TAP, as opposed to the consumer TAP introduced to L&C, was an 
anomalous feature. 
The high level of remuneration TAP was taking was an anomalous feature. And I dont think it was fair and reasonable for L&C to accept Miss Qs application in such 
circumstances. 
In conclusion 
L&C ought to have identified that TAP needed top-up permissions to advise on and make 
arrangements for personal pensions in the UK, and taken all the steps available to it to 
independently verify that TAP had the required permissions to give advice or make 
arrangements for personal pensions in the UK. 
Had it done so, Im satisfied that L&C would have established TAP didnt have the 
permissions it required, or that it was unable to confirm whether TAP had the required 
permissions. 
In either event, it wasnt in accordance with its regulatory obligations or good industry 
practice for L&C to proceed to accept business from TAP. 
Additionally, L&C ought to have considered the anomalous features of this business Ive 
outlined above. These were further factors relevant to L&Cs acceptance of Miss Qs 
application which emphasised the need for adequate due diligence to be carried out on TAP. 
Its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude that none of the points 
L&Cs raised in its response to Miss Qs complaint are factors which mitigate its decision to 
accept Miss Qs application from TAP.
Im therefore satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that L&C shouldnt have accepted 
Miss Qs application from TAP. 
Due diligence on the underlying investments
In light of my conclusions about L&Cs regulatory obligations to carry out sufficient due 
diligence on introducers, and given my finding that in the circumstances of this complaint 
L&C failed to comply with these obligations, Ive not considered L&Cs obligations under the 
Principles in respect of carrying out sufficient due diligence on the underlying investments. 
Its my view that had L&C complied with its obligations under the Principles to carry out 
sufficient due diligence checks on TAP, then this arrangement wouldnt have come about in 
the first place.
Was it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for L&C to proceed with Miss Qs 
application?
In its response to Miss Qs complaint L&Cs said that it was obliged to proceed in 
accordance with COBS 11.2.19R.
Before considering this point, I think its important for me to reiterate that, it wasnt fair and
reasonable, for L&C to have accepted Miss Qs application from TAP in the first place. So in 
my opinion, Miss Qs SIPP shouldnt have been established and the opportunity to execute 
investment instructions or proceed in reliance on an indemnity shouldnt have arisen at all.
COBS 11.2.19R
I note that L&Cs made the point that COBS 11.2.19R obliged it to execute investment 
instructions. It effectively says that once the SIPP has been established, its required to 
execute the specific instructions of its client.However, in the circumstances its my view that the crux of the issue in this complaint is 
whether L&C should have accepted the SIPP application from TAP and established Miss Qs 
SIPP in the first place.
An argument about having to execute the transaction as a result of COBS 11.2.19R was 
considered and rejected by the judge in BBSAL. In that case Jacobs J said:
The heading to COBS 11.2.1R shows that it is concerned with the manner in which 
orders are to be executed: i.e. on terms most favourable to the client. This is 
consistent with the heading to COBS 11.2 as a whole, namely: Best execution. The 
text of COBS 11.2.1R is to the same effect. The expression when executing orders 
indicates that it is looking at the moment when the firm comes to execute the order, 
and the way in which the firm must then conduct itself. It is concerned with the 
mechanics of execution; a conclusion reached, albeit in a different context, in Bailey 
& Anr v Barclays Bank [2014] EWHC 2882 (QB), paras [34]  [35]. It is not 
addressing an anterior question, namely whether a particular order should be 
executed at all. I agree with the FCAs submission that COBS 11.2 is a section of the 
Handbook concerned with the method of execution of client orders, and is designed 
to achieve a high quality of execution. It presupposes that there is an order being 
executed, and refers to the factors that must be taken into account when deciding 
how best to execute the order. It has nothing to do with the question of whether or 
not the order should be accepted in the first place.
And I dont think that L&Cs argument on this point is relevant to its obligations under the 
Principles to decide whether to accept an application to open a SIPP in the first place or to 
make the initial Hansard Signature Bond Plus investment.
Indemnity
I think L&C ought to have been cautious about accepting Miss Qs application even though 
shed signed an indemnity. L&C had to act in a way that was consistent with the regulatory 
obligations Ive set out in this decision.
My remit is to make a decision on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
And my view is that its fair and reasonable to say that just having Miss Q sign an indemnity 
declaration wasnt an effective way for L&C to meet its regulatory obligations to treat her 
fairly, given the concerns L&C ought to have had about accepting business from TAP.
L&C knew that Miss Q had signed a form intended to indemnify it against losses that arose 
from acting on her instructions. And, in my opinion, relying on such an indemnity when L&C 
knew, or ought to have known, Miss Qs dealings with TAP were putting her at significant 
risk wasnt the fair and reasonable thing to do. Having identified the risks Ive mentioned 
above, its my view that the fair and reasonable thing to do would have been to refuse to 
accept Miss Qs application. 
The Principles exist to ensure regulated firms treat their clients fairly. And I dont think the 
paperwork Miss Q signed meant that L&C could ignore its duty to treat her fairly. To be clear, 
Im satisfied that indemnities contained within the contractual documents dont absolve, nor 
do they attempt to absolve, L&C of its regulatory obligations to treat customers fairly when 
deciding whether to accept or reject business. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied L&C ought to have rejected Miss Qs 
application from TAP. If that had happened, then I think its most likely the contractual 
obligations between L&C and Miss Q under the newly established SIPP would never have arisen. And it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to say the contract between Miss Q and L&C 
meant L&C could ignore all red flags and proceed with Miss Qs business regardless.  
So, Im satisfied that Miss Qs SIPP shouldnt have been established and the opportunity to 
execute the initial investment instructions or proceed in reliance on an indemnity shouldnt 
have arisen at all. And Im firmly of the view that it wasnt fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances for L&C to proceed with Miss Qs application.
Is it fair to ask L&C to pay Miss Q compensation in the circumstances? 
Would the business have still gone ahead if L&C had refused the application? 
Miss Q went through a process with TAP that culminated in her completing paperwork to set 
up a new L&C SIPP and with the expectancy that monies from her existing pension plan 
would be transferred into the newly established SIPP. Having gone to the time and effort of 
doing this, I think its most likely that if the L&C SIPP wasnt then established, and if her 
pension monies werent then transferred to L&C, that Miss Q would have wanted to find out 
why from TAP and L&C. 
And I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that one or more of the parties involved would 
have explained to Miss Q that her application hadnt been accepted as TAP didnt have the 
necessary permissions it needed to provide the advice, or alternatively as L&C wasnt 
satisfied that TAP had the necessary top-up permissions to provide the advice. And that 
Miss Q wouldnt then have continued to accept or act on pensions advice provided by TAP.
Further, I think its very unlikely that advice from a business that did have the necessary 
permissions would have resulted in Miss Q taking the same course of action. I think its 
reasonable to say that a business that had the necessary permissions would have given 
suitable advice. 
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):  
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but 
nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive.
But, in this case, Im not satisfied that Miss Q proceeded in the knowledge that the 
investment she was making was high risk and speculative and that she was determined to 
move forward with the transaction in order to take advantage of a cash incentive offered by 
TAP. 
Ive not seen any evidence to show Miss Q was paid a cash incentive. It therefore cannot be 
said she was incentivised to enter into the transaction. And, on balance, Im satisfied that 
Miss Q, unlike Mr Adams, wasnt eager to complete the transaction for reasons other than 
securing the best pension for herself. So, in my opinion, this case is very different from that 
of Mr Adams.
L&C might argue that another SIPP operator would have accepted Miss Qs application from 
TAP, had it declined it. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that L&C shouldnt 
compensate Miss Q for her loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator 
would have made the same mistakes as Ive found it did. I think its fair instead to assume 
that another SIPP provider would have complied with its regulatory obligations and good 
industry practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted Miss Qs application from TAP. 
Further, and in any eventuality, even if another SIPP provider had been willing to accept Miss Qs application from TAP, that process would still have needed Miss Q to be willing to 
continue to do business with TAP after L&C had rejected her application for another 
application to proceed. And, for the reasons Ive given above, Im not satisfied that Miss Q 
would have continued to accept or act on pensions advice from TAP in such circumstances. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that if L&C had 
refused to accept Miss Qs application from TAP, the transaction wouldnt still have gone 
ahead. 
The involvement of TAP
In this decision Im considering Miss Qs complaint about L&C. While it may be the case that 
TAP gave unsuitable advice to Miss Q, L&C had its own distinct set of obligations when 
considering whether to accept Miss Qs application for a SIPP. 
TAP had a responsibility not to conduct regulated business that went beyond the scope of its 
permissions. L&C wasnt required to ensure TAP complied with that responsibility. But L&C 
had its own distinct regulatory obligations under the Principles. And this included to check 
that firms introducing advised business to it had the regulatory permissions to be doing so. In 
my view, L&Cs failed to comply with these obligations in this case. 
Im satisfied that if L&C had carried out sufficient due diligence on TAP, and acted in 
accordance with good practice and its regulatory obligations by independently checking 
TAPs permissions before accepting business from it, L&C wouldnt have done any SIPP 
business with TAP in the first place. 
Im also satisfied that if Miss Q had been told that TAP was acting outside its permissions in 
giving pensions advice, or alternatively that L&C wasnt satisfied that TAP had the necessary 
top-up permissions to provide such advice, she wouldnt have continued to accept or act on 
advice from it. And, having taken into account all the circumstances of this case, its my view 
that its fair and reasonable to hold L&C responsible for its failure to identify that TAP didnt 
have the required top-up permissions to be giving advice and making arrangements on 
personal pensions in the UK. 
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation (DISP 
3.7.2R). 
As I set out above, in my opinion its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
hold L&C accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant regulatory obligations 
and to treat Miss Q fairly. 
The starting point therefore, is that it would be fair to require L&C to pay Miss Q 
compensation for the loss shes suffered as a result of L&Cs failings. Ive considered 
whether theres any reason why it wouldnt be fair to ask L&C to compensate Miss Q for her 
loss, including if it would be fair to hold another party liable in full or in part. And Im satisfied 
its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for L&C to compensate Miss Q to the full extent 
of the financial losses shes suffered due to its failings. 
I accept that it may be the case that TAP is responsible for initiating the course of action that 
led to Miss Qs loss. However, its also the case that if L&C had complied with its own 
distinct regulatory obligations as a SIPP operator, the arrangement for Miss Q wouldnt have 
come about in the first place, and the loss shes suffered could have been avoided. If it wishes, L&C can have the option to take an assignment of any rights of action Miss Q 
has against TAP in respect of the events this complaint concerns before compensation is 
paid. And the compensation can be made contingent upon Miss Qs acceptance of this term.
The key point here is that but for L&Cs failings, Miss Q wouldnt have suffered the loss shes 
suffered. So, even if an assignment of action against TAP proves worthless, this wouldnt 
lead me to change my overall view on this point. And Im satisfied that its appropriate and 
fair in the circumstances for L&C to compensate Miss Q to the full extent of the financial 
losses shes suffered due to its failings, and notwithstanding any failings by TAP. And, taking 
into account the combination of factors Ive set out above, Im not persuaded that it would be 
appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the compensation amount that L&Cs liable 
to pay to Miss Q.    
Miss Q taking responsibility for her own investment decisions 
Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to say Miss Qs actions mean she should 
bear the loss arising as a result of L&Cs failings. 
Miss Q took advice from an authorised adviser (albeit one acting outside the permissions it 
held) and used the services of a regulated personal pension provider, L&C. 
Im satisfied that if L&C had undertaken reasonable due diligence measures and drawn 
appropriate conclusions about the business TAP was undertaking (acting beyond its 
permission) that L&C shouldnt have accepted Miss Qs business from TAP. 
And I think that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, its fair to say L&C should 
compensate Miss Q for the losses shes suffered, including any charges that were suffered 
as a result of realising monies from the Hansard Signature Bond Plus investment. But for 
L&Cs failings, Miss Q wouldnt have switched to the L&C SIPP or invested through the 
Hansard Signature Bond Plus wrapper in the first place. And I dont think it would be fair to 
say in the circumstances that Miss Q should suffer the loss because she ultimately 
instructed those investments that Im considering here to be effected.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Miss Q to the position shed now be in but for what I consider to be L&Cs 
failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting her SIPP application.
Prior to transferring to L&C, Miss Qs monies were held in several pension plans, but for TAP 
contacting Miss Q and L&C accepting Miss Qs business from TAP I think Miss Q would 
simply have remained invested in those pension plans.
Similarly, if Miss Q had sought advice from a different adviser, who had the necessary 
permissions, I think its most likely the advice would have been to stay in her existing 
pension plans. I think its unlikely that another adviser, acting properly, would have advised 
Miss Q to transfer into the L&C SIPP and invest in/through the Hansard Signature Bond Plus 
wrapper. 
So, if L&C hadnt accepted Miss Qs application, I think Miss Q would have remained with 
her previous providers. However, I cannot be certain that a value will be obtainable for what 
the previous policies would have been worth. Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable, taking this into account.
What must L&C do?To compensate Miss Q fairly, London & Colonial Services Limited must:
Compare the performance of Miss Q's SIPP with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous providers. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, theres a loss and compensation is payable.
L&C should add interest as set out below.
If theres a loss, L&C should pay into a pension plan for Miss Q so as to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If L&Cs unable to pay the compensation into a pension plan for Miss Q, it should 
pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into a plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC), so Miss Q wont be able to reclaim any of the 
reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Miss Q's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Miss Qs likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Miss Q 
would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied 
to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay £300 to Miss Q directly. In addition to the financial loss that Miss Q's 
experienced as a result of the problems with her pension, I think the losses suffered 
to the portion of Miss Q's pension provisions that this decision concerns has caused 
Miss Q distress. And I think that its fair for L&C to compensate her for this as well.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If L&C deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Miss Q how much has been taken off. L&C should give Miss Q a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Miss Q asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Monies 
transferred 
into the 
L&C SIPP 
from Miss 
Qs 
previous 
pension No longer in 
forceCombined 
notional values 
from previous 
providersDate of 
investmentDate 
monies 
were 
realised 
from the 
Hansard 
Signature 
Bond Plus 8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlementplans. wrapper (I 
understand 
this was on 
22 February 
2012)
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. In this complaint 
this is the current value of Miss Qs SIPP as at 22 February 2012, immediately after monies 
had been realised from the Hansard Signature Bond Plus investment.
Notional Value
This is the value of Miss Q's pension had it remained invested with the previous providers 
until the end date. L&C should request that the previous providers calculate this value.
Any additional sums Miss Q paid into the L&C SIPP from outset through until 22 February 
2012, should be added to the notional value calculation from the point in time when they 
were actually paid in.
Any withdrawals from the L&C SIPP from outset through until 22 February 2012 should be 
deducted from the notional value calculation at the point they were actually paid, so that 
they cease to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. To be clear this 
doesnt include SIPP charges or fees paid to third parties like TAP. 
If theres a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
L&C totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the notional 
value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous providers are unable to calculate a notional value, L&C will need to 
determine a fair value for Miss Q's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the 
investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website by
searching for quoted household interest rates and then clicking on the related link to their
database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, clicking
on: Interest & exchange rates data / Quoted household interest rates / Deposit rates - Fixed
rate bonds / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting the source data.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
If the previous providers are unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. The mix and diversification provided by using a benchmark of the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income total return index for half the investment and the average rate for 
the fixed rate bonds for the other half of the investment would be a fair measure for 
comparison for what Miss Qs monies might have been worth if theyd not been 
transferred into the SIPP.
If L&C pays the full calculated redress, and elects to take an assignment of any rights of 
action Miss Q has against TAP in respect of the events this complaint concerns (so in 
respect of the establishment of the SIPP, pension switches and investment of monies 
in/through the Hansard Signature Bond Plus wrapper) before paying compensation, it must 
first provide a draft of the assignment to Miss Q for her consideration and agreement. Any 
expenses incurred for the drafting of the assignment should be met by L&C.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Qs complaint against London 
& Colonial Services Limited. And I require London & Colonial Services Limited to pay Miss Q 
the compensation amount as set out in the steps above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Alex Mann
Ombudsman