DRN-2979295
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as H has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned down 
its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close due to Covid-19.
Mr V, a director of H, has brought the complaint on Hs behalf. 
What happened
H held a business interruption insurance policy with Covea. It claimed on its policy after it 
was impacted by Covid-19.
Covea turned down Hs claim. They said the policy didnt provide cover because Covid-19 
hadnt caused damage to property. And while the policy included an extension for notifiable 
disease which covered closure due to a notifiable disease at Hs premises, they thought H 
had closed as a result of the Governments response to the national pandemic. Covea said 
that there wasnt any indication that anyone at Hs premises had Covid-19 which had led to 
its closure. 
Unhappy with Coveas response, H brought its complaint to our service. It said it had been 
forced to close due to Government guidelines and it was impossible to know whether anyone 
had Covid-19 in March 2020 due to a lack of testing. H thought it should be covered under 
either the extension for denial of access or the extension for notifiable diseases. 
While we were looking into things, H told us it thought a number of people at its premises 
had Covid-19. It said it had noticed many of its customers coughing in early March 2020 and 
in particular one family whose daughter was coughing and vomiting and had a high 
temperature. H said there was someone (who Ill refer to as D) in their second week of work 
experience who then felt unwell. H said D carried on working for a couple of days before 
sending in a handwritten letter to explain that they couldnt continue to work as they had 
been told to self-isolate due to having symptoms of Covid-19. H said Ds mother, who also 
worked at the premises, was also unwell. Due to staff being unwell, H said it decided to 
close on 17 March 2020. It had planned to reopen on 20 March 2020 but was forced to 
remain closed following the Government Act. 
H provided us with a copy of the handwritten letter dated 15 March 2020 and a copy of Ds 
work experience agreement which said D was due to carry out work experience between     
2 March 2020 and 13 March 2020. H also provided a copy of positive antibody test for D, 
dated January 2021. 
When our investigator asked why D had written a letter saying they couldnt continue with 
work experience when the placement had already ended, H provided a copy of an additional 
agreement dated 10 March 2020 which said due to the success of the placement D would 
continue their work experience on Saturdays and Sundays from 14 March 2020. 
Our investigator looked into Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the evidence provided was sufficient to show that it was most likely someone at its 
premises had Covid-19. 
 
H didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Hs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Covea have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Hs claim.
Notifiable diseases
The relevant part of this extension says:
Loss as insured by this Section resulting from any of the following occurring 
during the Period of Insurance
a) any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease (as defined below) at the Premises or 
attributable to food or drink supplied from the Premises
The policy defines Notifiable Disease as:
Notifiable Disease shall mean illness sustained by any person resulting from
a) food or drink poisoning or
b) any human infectious or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS)or an AIDS related condition) an outbreak 
of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to them
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. So, Ive considered the evidence available to show if H has 
demonstrated that there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at its business premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic 
approach, and to consider whether other evidence can be provided that supports, on the 
balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As 
with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to 
demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy covers.
I understand that H noticed that many of its customers in early March 2020 were unwell. It 
also closed from 17 March 2020 due to staff sickness. But I have to bear in mind that many 
people who were unwell as that time didnt have Covid-19 and I havent seen anything other 
than Hs comments to support that its customers and Ds mother were mostly likely unwell 
with Covid-19. H said D continued working for a couple of days after becoming unwell and stopped working 
in the third day. Ds letter is dated 15 March 2020. However, the work experience 
agreement shows that the placement was due to finish on 13 March 2020. When our 
investigator asked about this, H provided a further agreement which indicated that the work 
experience would continue at weekends. As the letter is handwritten, and therefore not 
electronically date stamped, I dont find it persuasive enough evidence to find that D most 
likely had Covid-19, particularly given the initial inconsistencies in the dates of the work 
experience. 
H has provided a copy of an antibody test for D but, given that the test was dated January 
2021, thats not enough to persuade me that its most likely they had Covid-19 in March 
2020. I say that because, D could have contracted Covid-19 between March 2020 and 
January 2021. H has provided a copy of a negative Covid-19 test for D later in the year and 
said D had numerous other negative tests but that still doesnt persuade me its most likely 
they had Covid-19 in March 2020. 
Taking all of this into account, I havent seen enough to decide its most likely someone at 
Hs premises had Covid-19. Therefore, I dont think this extension provides cover for the 
circumstances of its claim. 
Denial of access
This extension says:
Loss as insured by this Section resulting from interruption of or interference with 
the Business in consequence of Damage insured under Section 1 to property in 
the vicinity of the Premises which shall prevent or hinder the use of or access to 
the Premises whether your property or Premises be damaged or not
 
The policy defines damage as:
The term Damage when referred to in this Policy shall mean loss or destruction 
of or damage to Property Insured by an Insured Peril or any other cause insured 
under the respective Section other than as excluded hereafter 
For this extension to provide cover, the interruption or interference to Hs business would 
need to be as result of loss, destruction or damage to property in Hs premises which 
prevented or hindered the use of or access to Hs premises. I havent seen anything to 
indicate this happened, so I dont think this extension covers its claim either. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome H was hoping for, but having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to pay Hs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman