DRN-3019209
The complaint
 Mr S complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked his account and wont return 
money held in the account to him. He wants the money released to him and compensation.
What happened
Mr S has a Pockit account. On 23 November 2019, Pockit blocked Mr Ss account while they 
carried out a review. This meant Mr S couldnt access the money in his account. At the time 
the balance of Mr Ss account was £140.
Mr S contacted Pockit to try and find out what was happening with his account. Pockit 
explained to Mr S that under the terms and conditions of the account it was entitled to review 
a customers account and ask him for information. On 3 December 2019, Pockit told Mr S 
that it needed to see proof of his address, identification and source of funds. 
Mr S provided Pockit with a photo of the front of his driving licence and a utility bill. He also 
explained that he funded his account from sales of household goods that he owned and said 
that sometimes he paid in cash that his lodger had given him. On 5 December 2019, Pockit 
asked Mr S to send in a copy of the back of his driving licence, evidence of sales of goods 
he said hed sold, a letter from his lodger and anything he had from HMRC.
Mr S told Pockit he felt uncomfortable providing any more information. He asked for his 
money to be returned and for his account to be closed. In February 2020, Pockit asked Mr S 
again to provide evidence that he was entitled to money his account. Pockit didnt remove 
the block on Mr Ss account or release his funds. So, Mr S complained. In response, Pockit 
said under the terms of Mr Ss account it was entitled to restrict an account. Pockit said it 
appreciated the review had caused Mr S inconvenience. But wouldnt remove the block. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. She asked Pockit for some more information 
about its review  in particular why it had taken so long to complete its review. And what it 
had been doing to progress things since it had last contacted Mr S in February 2020. But 
Pockit didnt respond.
 
The investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. She was satisfied Pockit could review Mr Ss 
account and ask him for information  but she didnt think theyd carried out a thorough 
investigation to show that that Mr S wasnt entitled to the money in his account. And said it 
hadnt completed its review in a timely manner. So, she asked them to return the full balance 
to Mr S and pay him £100 compensation for the trouble and upset hed been caused. 
Mr S agreed. Pockit didnt respond. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Pockit has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means they need 
to restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their review. 
And ask for information about payments made into an account.
 
Having looked at whats happened, Im satisfied Pockit was complying with their legal and 
regulatory obligations when they reviewed Mr Ss account in April 2020. Its also entitled to 
review an account under the terms and conditions. So, I cant fairly say Pockits done 
anything wrong when it decided to review Mr Ss account.
However, while Pockit are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. Pockit initially blocked Mr Ss account in November 
2019. I can see that Pockit asked Mr S to provide it with information in December 2019. But I 
havent seen any evidence to show what actions Pockit took after Mr S provided the 
information it had requested. I note too that Pockit didnt reach out to Mr S following its initial 
contact until February 2020, to try and progress things, which was three months after it had 
restricted Mr Ss account. And from looking at the timeline Pockit has provided it appears 
nothing further was done to move things forward until a year later in February 2021.
Despite being asked by the investigator, Pockit hasnt offered any explanation for why its 
review of Mr Ss account has to date, taken nearly two years. So, Im not satisfied Pockit 
completed its review in a timely manner and have treated Mr S fairly. 
Pockit says it asked Mr S about the source of the funds in his account and how he used his 
account. In response, he explained that the money in his account was made up from sales of 
household items hed owned and money from his lodger. I note that this tends to be 
supported by some of the payments made into Mr Ss account being referenced rent, and 
other credits being received from a well-known online payment service often used to buy and 
sell goods. So, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, that shows Mr S wasnt 
entitled to the money paid into his account, I dont find Mr Ss explanation implausible. 
Pockit has told this service that the block to Mr Ss account was applied to meet its 
regulatory requirements in line with the terms and conditions of the account. However, Pockit 
has failed to provide any information or evidence to support this. Its also not provided any 
explanation as to why it is still withholding Mr Ss funds. So, in this particular case, because 
of the lack of information, I cant be satisfied that Pockit has treated Mr S fairly and 
reasonably. It therefore follows that Pockit should refund Mr S the balance of his account, 
which according to Mr Ss account statements was £140. 
 
Having looked at what Mr S has told us about how the blocks affected him, I do think that 
Mr S was caused some distress and inconvenience. I can see that he chased Pockit on 
more than one occasion trying to get his money. So, Ive no doubt all of this had an impact 
on Mr S, causing him concern and worry. I note too that Mr S has been without his funds for 
well over a year. So, I consider £100 compensation to be fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. To put things right Wirecard Card 
Solutions Limited should:
Refund Mr S the amount of money in his account at the time the account was 
restricted - £140 Pay Mr S £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its delay in 
completing its review and withholding his funds
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman