DRN-3601969
The complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide Building Society restricted new spending on his credit card.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr G has a credit card with Nationwide. In March 2020 Mr Gs credit card payment was 
returned unpaid. On 6 April 2020 Mr G spoke with Nationwide and explained he was 
experiencing financial difficulties as the pandemic had impacted his income. Nationwide 
agreed to place the credit card on hold and cease collections activity. Mr Gs full payments 
werent made in March and April 2020.
On 9 May 2020, once the account hold ended, Nationwide reviewed Mr Gs credit card and 
took the decision to place a restriction on new spending. Confirmation of Nationwides 
decision was included in Mr Gs next credit card statement.
Mr Gs payments restarted in May 2020 and continued. Looking at the account history, 
some payments were reversed but later made up by Mr G.
Last year, Mr G complained about Nationwides decision to permanently restrict new 
spending on his credit card and that he continued to pay interest. Nationwide didnt agree it 
had acted unfairly and said it had tried to assist Mr G when he called for help in April 2020. 
Nationwide also said it had sent Mr G an income and expenditure form to complete in April 
2020 to help get a better picture of his circumstances but it wasnt returned. Nationwide 
took the decision to restrict new spending shortly after its collections hold ended. 
Nationwide also said it had correctly applied interest, fees and charges to Mr Gs credit card 
and didnt offer a refund.
Mr G referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
upheld Mr Gs complaint and said Nationwide shouldve done more to help him when new 
industry guidance was introduced shortly after his call in April 2020. The investigator 
recommended Nationwide pay Mr G £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Nationwide asked to appeal and said the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance had 
been introduced in the days after Mr Gs call on 6 April 2020 and there was no requirement 
to contact customers where accounts were already on hold. Nationwide also said Mr G
hadnt got back in touch with it after the 30 day hold period had ended to ask for further 
assistance or returned a completed income and expenditure assessment. Nationwide 
explained the spending restriction was put in place on 9 May 2020, after the 30 day 
collections hold had ended. As Nationwide didnt accept the investigators view Mr Gs 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr G as I can see he experienced a very difficult time, but Ive 
reached a different view concerning his case. I havent been persuaded that Nationwide 
acted unfairly when it discussed payment options in April 2020 or restricted new spending 
in May 2020. Ill explain why.
The FCAs Payment Deferral Guidance was published on 9 April 2020, three days after Mr 
Gs call with Nationwide. The Payment Deferral Guidance allowed businesses to give 
payment holidays for around three months if a borrowers income had been affected by the 
pandemic. But when Mr G called on 6 April 2020 the guidance hadnt been published. So 
whilst I understand Mr G mayve qualified for assistance under the guidance if hed called 
on or after 9 April 2020, it hadnt come into effect on 6 April 2020.
On 6 April 2020 Nationwide considered options for Mr G based on its existing policy for 
customers experiencing financial difficulties. At this point, Mr Gs March 2020 payment 
hadnt been made in full and he wasnt able to make the April 2020 payment. Nationwide 
agreed to put a collections hold in place for 30 days. That meant no one from Nationwide 
would contact Mr G to request payment of the outstanding arrears. In my view, Nationwide 
took a positive and sympathetic approach with Mr G and gave some breathing space.
I note Nationwide sent Mr G an income and expenditure assessment to get a better picture 
of his finances but it wasnt completed or returned. Mr Gs payments began again in May 
2020 and theres no evidence to show he contacted Nationwide to ask for further 
assistance. Had Mr G contacted Nationwide again, Id have expected it to consider 
whether to provide support under the FCAs Payment Deferral Guidance and offer a 
payment holiday. But as there was no follow up from Mr G, I havent been persuaded 
Nationwide acted unfairly.
Nationwide says it took the decision to restrict new spending on Mr Gs account due to the 
arrears from March and April 2020. Ive seen Nationwides credit card statement and it 
confirms that step was taken on 9 May 2020. Given the arrears and lack of follow up contact 
to discuss how to repay them, Im not persuaded it was unfair of Nationwide to restrict new 
spending. I also think its fair to note thats a step the credit cards terms and conditions 
allow Nationwide to take.
I understand my provisional decision is likely to come as a disappointment for Mr G, but as I 
havent found that Nationwide treated him unfairly or made mistakes Im unable to uphold his 
complaint. Based on the information Ive seen so far Im satisfied Nation with Mr Gs 
complaint fairly. So I dont intend to tell it to take any further action.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I reached my final decision. Neither party provided further comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has been provided I see no reason to change the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. I remain of the view that Nationwide dealt with Mr Gs 
complaint fairly for the same reasons. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman