DRN-2687350
The complaint
 Miss F complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) have 
declined her claim for treatment provided to her dog B.        
 
What happened
 Miss F purchased a pet insurance policy from Red Sands for her dog B on 2 January 2018. 
The policy was a time limited policy.  
On 6 July 2018 Miss F took B to the vet with red and weepy eyes. On examination, the vet 
records that he flushed the eyes with saline and couldnt see any grass seed, but could not 
rule out the possibility of it. He diagnosed corneal ulcers and recommended treatment. 
On 11 July 2018 Miss Fs fianc took B back for a second opinion. The vet examined B and 
noted that the ulcers were healing. He also notes Few distichia upper and lower lids and 
Advise refer for distichia if seem to be a problem in future. At a follow up on 18 July 2018 it 
is noted Distichia as prev and If future concerns re distichia, refer.. No claim was made 
under the policy for this treatment and B recovered fully.
 
Distichiasis is the medical term for the growth of extra eyelashes on one or both lids. 
On 2 January 2019 the policy was renewed. 
On 22 January 2019 Miss F took B to the vets again with a left eye problem. The vet again 
diagnosed ulcers and recommended treatment. He also noted All eyelids have 2  3  
distichia.
There are further follow up notes on 26 January and 1 February 2019. The notes from 1 
February 2019 record some distichia, esp L upper and Advise likely sharp trauma caused 
pinpoint lesions, consider where she runs e.g. bushes. Advise if recurrent ulcer in short term 
should reconsider possible distachia involvement (also STT would be indicated) No claim 
was made under the policy for this treatment. 
On 6 April 2019 Miss F took B to the vets with a right eye problem. B was diagnosed with an 
ulcer in her right eye. The vet noted that there was a thickening of the eyelash which was the 
suspected cause of the ulcer and removed the eyelash. The notes record in the assessment 
that it is mild bacterial conjunctivitis ? Whether initial corneal trauma or distachia are 
involved
On 6 May 2019 Miss F took B to the vet for conjunctivitis with a third party vet.
On 18 May 2019 there was a follow up appointment. The notes record that the conjunctivitis 
appears resolved. Unknown why recurrent. Maybe repeat contaminants/hypersens/trauma 
It also records Both eyes few distichia, generally not in contact corneas
On 7 June 2019 B was seen again by the vet with a corneal ulcer. The notes record suspect 
distachia involved in causing and a referral was made to an ophthalmologist to assess 
further esp distachia
There was further follow up in July and on 8 July 2018 B was seen at the Royal Veterinary 
College Hospital regarding the distichia. They advised that they suspected the chronic 
corneal ulceration was due to the combination of distichiasis on both upper and lower lids. 
They removed them and placed a contact lens on the right eye to provide some comfort. 
They also noted that an underlying tear film deficit could be contributing to the ulceration and 
recommended surgery to remove the distichiae from both upper lids. This took place in 
September 2019. 
Miss F made a number of claims for the treatment received by B at both the practice and the 
hospital. The first claim was made on 6 August 2019 for £325 for the hospital treatment and 
the second was made on 3 September 2019 for treatment between 6 April 2019 to 24 July 
2019.  
On 29 August 2019 Red Sands declined the claim made on 6 August 2019, saying that the 
condition first arose on 7 July 2018 and so the 365 day time limit for claiming for that 
condition expired on 6 July 2019. They advised that the terms and conditions of the policy 
confirm that Time limited policies mean that your pet will be covered for 365 days after the 
condition is first noted by yourself or your vet. This could mean when symptoms first arose or 
when an accident happened. Once the 365 days have elapsed,  this illness, injury or 
condition will no longer be covered, and exclusions regarding the illness can then be applied 
to your policy.
Miss F says that although the distichia were noted on her dogs notes on 6 July 2018, they  
were not attributed as the cause of the recurrent corneal ulcers until 6 April 2019, and as 
such the 365 days should run from 6 April 2019. 
Miss F complained and Red Sands reviewed the case.  A final review letter was issued by 
Red Sands on 25 September 2019. They said that the policy cover is time limited, and cover 
is only provided for 365 days from the onset signs and symptoms of a condition. They also 
said that they had applied a retrospective exclusion on eyes from renewal on 2 January 
2019.  
Miss F was unhappy with this outcome and she made a complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Miss Fs complaint. She thought that Red Sands 
had acted fairly in applying the 365 day term from 7 July 2018. However, she did note that 
some of the claim should be paid as it was for treatment before 6 July 2019. Red Sands 
agreed to this. 
Miss F disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case came to me to review.  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
In cases like this, I have to look at whether Red Sands have acted in line with the policy 
terms and conditions, and also whether they have acted fairly and reasonably in refusing the 
claim. To do this, I have considered the policy, and also the medical history for Miss Fs dog 
for the whole period. I have also taken into account Miss Fs testimony and the additional 
information provided by the vet. 
The first time that it is recorded in the notes by the vet that B has distichia is actually 11 July 
2018. On the initial consultation notes for 8 July 2018, the vet seems to attribute the ulcer to possible contact with grass seed. Miss F has told us that she believes it was as a result of an 
injury to Bs eye when she was play fighting with her other dog. 
Either way, it seems to me that at this point, the presence of the distachia is only noted on 
11 July 2018 as an observation following the vets examination of Bs eyes. He notes it as 
something that may cause a problem in the future. It is not cited as a cause, or even a 
possible cause for the ulcers. 
I also note that there is no recurrence of a problem with Bs eyes for a further 6 months, until 
after the renewal of the policy in January 2019. 
On 22 January 2019 a further ulcer is treated. It seems to me that the first time that the vet 
considers a possible connection between the distichia and the ulceration is on 1 February 
2019 when he notes Advise if recurrent ulcer in short term should reconsider possible 
distachia involvement. I think that this is the point at which the 365 day time limit is triggered 
and I will explain why. 
The policy document defines condition as any injury sustained during, or resulting from, a 
single accident or any manifestation of an illness having the same diagnostic classification or 
resulting from the same disease process regardless of the number of incidents or areas of 
your pets body affected
The distachia is not an injury from an accident and so needs to be considered as a possible 
illness. Illness is further defined in the policy as sickness, disease, infection or any change 
in your pets normal healthy state which is not caused by injury.
So although I accept that the distichia was noted in 2018, I dont think it would be fair to 
categorise it as an illness- ie, a change in Bs normal healthy state - until it reasonably can 
be said to be the potential cause of the recurrent ulcers. The first time that connection was 
clinically made was 1 February 2019 so Im satisfied that the 365 days of cover was 
triggered at this time. Many dogs with distichia have no issues, and it would not be fair to say 
that the distichia was an illness until the point at which it can be said to be causing a 
problem.  
Red Sands say that if they had known about the eye treatment in 2018, they would have 
applied an exclusion to the policy for eyes, sight and eyelids at renewal. They have therefore 
applied a retrospective exclusion to the policy from 2 January 2019. I dont consider that this 
is fair. Miss F took out the policy and renewed it on the basis that she was buying 365 day 
cover for her dog in the event of illness or injury. She did not make a claim until it was 
considered that the distichia was having an impact on her dog, and it is fair and reasonable 
that she should have the benefit of 365 days of cover from the date that it was known that 
the distichia was causing an issue.
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Miss Fs complaint, and I invited 
the parties to comment. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent Miss F and Red Sands a copy of my provisional decision. Both have replied. Miss F 
accepts the decision and Red Sands have nothing further to add, so Im making my final 
decision for the reasons Ive summarised above. Miss F has commented in her response that that she has made an additional final claim from Red Sands for Bs eye treatment before 
the end of the policy. This will need to be considered by Red Sands in accordance with my 
determination that the 365 days starts from 1 February 2019.  
 
 My final decision
 Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited should pay Miss Fs claims for her dogs 
eye treatment from 1 February 2019 for 365 days or until the policy terminates, subject to 
any further policy limits and less any applicable excess.
  
It should also pay 8% simple interest on any payments made by Miss F in respect of the bills 
which are the subject of the claims, from the date that she made the payments until the date 
that the claims are settled. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman