DRN-3689230
The complaint
Mr W complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SWL) failed to follow his instruction in 
November 2019 to invest his pension in a more stable fund. He says this had led his pension 
fund falling in value and being unable to retire.
What happened
Mr W has a stakeholder pension with SWL which started on 5 November 2007. A transfer 
payment of £67,450.82 was paid into his plan. At the time, Mr W was 44. I understand he 
selected the investment option of 100% allocation in the Balanced Growth Portfolio fund, 
with lifestyle switching.
SWL wrote to Mr W on 11 November 2007 to provide an illustration of the benefits he might 
get from the pension at his then chosen retirement age of 65. This contained a section 
Where will the payments be invested?, which stated that Mr Ws payments would be 
invested 100% in the Balanced Growth fund. It also stated that Mr W had chosen to 
automatically switch his investment to approximately 75% into the Pension Protector Fund 
and 25% into the Cash Fund over the five years before his chosen retirement date. SWL 
also gave Mr W his cancellation rights in case hed changed his mind.
SWL wrote to Mr W on 1 August 2019 to ask him to review changes to his pension 
investment options. It gave him the value of his pension as of 20 July 2019. And stated that it 
was currently invested in the lifestyle investment strategy Balanced Investor targeting 
buying an annuity. It also said that if Mr W thought he may choose to take his savings in a 
different way, he should consider changing how his pension was invested. A booklet about 
the lifestyle switching feature was enclosed. This explained how lifestyling worked. It said:
However your selected lifestyle investment programme will automatically move your 
investments into lower-risk funds as you get closer to your retirement date. The aim of 
switching to lower risk investments is to help protect the value of your pension fund but it 
also reduces the growth potential. 
Mr W wrote to SWL on 20 November 2019. He said his intended retirement age had 
changed to 59, and that although this could increase or decrease, it wouldnt be 65. He also 
said that SWL had suggested in its August 2019 letter that the investment profile itd 
selected for him reflected his intention to buy an annuity at retirement. Mr W said he wasnt 
at this point considering an annuity, but was considering a flexible drawdown. He said this 
may change. Mr W also said that because of this, the funds SWL had selected should: 
probably reflect a more risk averse approach rather than the current portfolio which seems 
to fluctuate wildly. Mr W asked SWL to contact him by email or post if it needed further 
information.
SWL said it tried to call Mr W on 28 November 2019, but that it was unsuccessful. SWL 
replied to Mr Ws 20 November 2019 letter on 29 November 2019. The letter said that it had 
changed his retirement age to 59. It also listed the funds Mr W was currently invested in as 
follows:
It 
also 
said that following the retirement age change, Mr Ws pension was in the lifestyle switching 
phase, where investments would be moved to: lower risk funds. The letter said:
Your current fund investments have now been changed in line with your new retirement 
date. Well continue to move the funds detailed above, in line with your lifestyling switching 
strategy. The switching procedure will happen on a monthly basis.
The letter also said that Mr W could call SWL to cancel the remaining switches at any time. 
And that it was important that Mr W reviewed his options at retirement, including ensuring 
that his lifestyle strategy remained aligned to his retirement goals. It also recommended 
visiting SWLs Retirement Planning website.
SWL wrote to Mr W again on 2 December 2019 with projections of his pension benefits to 
ages 59 and 65. It also said that Mr W should consider getting free and impartial guidance 
on his retirement options by contacting Pension Wise.
SWL wrote to Mr W again on 18 September 2020. This letter said that Mr W was invested in 
the Scottish Widows Balanced Growth Portfolio Fund. But that it was increasing the range of 
investments to allow more flexibility. It said the changes would be effective from 5 October 
2020.
Mr W submitted an online request on 30 April 2021 to SWL to defer his retirement. He said 
this was because of the dire performance of his pension fund over the last year.  
SWL replied to Mr W on 4 May 2021. It said it couldnt change his retirement age again as it 
had already been changed before. It said its system only allowed one manual change of 
retirement date. And that if Mr W wanted to retire at a later date, the system would 
automatically change his retirement age to 75. But he could still take his pension benefits at 
any age up to 75 by contacting SWL. SWL also said that the lifestyle switching on the policy 
would end when Mr W reached age 59. It said that this meant the pension would be invested 
in lower risk investment funds. But that if Mr W wanted to change his pension investments, 
he could contact SWL. 
Mr W complained to SWL in February 2022 about the poor investment performance he felt 
hed experienced.  He also felt that SWL had failed to act on his instruction in his November 
2019 letter to SWL to consider a more stable fund. He also felt unsure that SWL had ever 
told him that his investments would be moved into the Pension Protector fund. He said hed 
been horrified to see this fund appear in the national press as not being fit for purpose. Mr W 
felt this fund was intended for those intending to buy an annuity or retire immediately. And 
said that he was now considerably worse off due to it being used for his pension.Fund name Fund value % of total investment Date of valuation
Pension Protector 102,272.31 45.00 29 November 2019
Consensus 5,272.68 2.32 29 November 2019
Balanced Growth 85,636.02 37.68 29 November 2019
Cash 34,090.75 15.00 29 November 2019
Total £227,271.76 100%SWL issued its first final response to the complaint on 1 March 2022. It didnt uphold it. It 
said that fund performance wasnt guaranteed. And for this reason it couldnt uphold 
complaints about it. 
SWL also said that its 29 November 2019 letter had explained the lifestyle switch process, 
but Mr W hadnt told it the information provided in the letter was incorrect or not what hed 
requested. 
Mr W was unhappy with SWLs response, so complained again on 5 March 2022. He felt 
that SWL had made its decision incorrectly based on the correspondence. He also felt that 
the Pension Protector fund had been mis-represented as a stable fund. He felt his 19 
November 2019 letter to SWL had requested three changes to his pension:
To change his retirement date
To confirm he didnt intend to buy an annuity
To confirm he wanted to invest in a more risk averse portfolio than the one SWL had 
selected.
Mr W said that SWLs 29 November 2019 letter didnt mention which fund his pension would 
be switched into, or that it would still be with the intention of purchasing an annuity. He said it 
also hadnt said his instructions wouldnt be followed. He didnt agree that he shouldve 
contacted SWL to tell it he didnt agree with what it had outlined in its November 2019 letter. 
He said this was because the letter had been silent on these points. Mr W felt that as hed 
said he wanted "flexible access" to his funds this wouldve indicated the Cautious Lifestyle 
(flexible access), which was detailed in the documentation hed been send on 1 August 
2019.
Mr W felt that:
SWL had failed to comply with his instructions of 19 November 2019.
It had failed to clarify what Mr W needed, despite allegedly being uncertain of his 
requirements, given it said it had tried to call him on 28 November 2019.
It had invested his pension in an unsuitable annuity fund when he said hed 
specifically stated he intended to take flexible drawdown.
Hed lost around £33,700 due to SWLs failures. 
SWL spoke to Mr W on 11 May 2022. It said lifestyling strategy funds were intended to be 
less risky for those approaching retirement age. But that it couldnt uphold the complaint 
based on the performance of the funds.
SWL followed up the conversation in writing in its second final response letter.  It still didnt 
think itd done anything wrong. It said its 29 November 2020 letter had detailed the funds Mr 
W had been invested in at that time. And said that he could cancel the remaining switches at 
any time. But itd received no instructions from Mr W to do so. 
SWL also said that its 4 May 2021 letter to Mr Ws request to extend his retirement age 
again had confirmed that lifestyle switching would finish and the pension would remain 
invested in the lower risk investment funds. But although the letter had told Mr W he could 
contact SWL if he wanted to make any changes to his investment funds, no instructions had 
been received. Therefore it didnt agree that it had failed to follow Mr Ws instructions to move to more risk averse funds. 
SWL also said that Mr Ws funds werent invested in an annuity fund rather than a 
drawdown fund. It said the lifestyling strategy wasnt specific to those taking an annuity 
rather than a drawdown, but was for all customers approaching retirement age.
Mr W was still unhappy with SWLs response, so he brought his complaint to this service. He 
felt that despite his instruction, SWL had invested his funds in an annuity purchase based 
fund and not a flexible access fund. He felt that if SWL had invested as hed requested, he 
wouldve been £30,000 to £50,000 better off. He wanted to be put into the position he 
wouldve been if SWL had complied with his instructions. This included transferring his fund 
to a stable and appropriate fund for a flexible drawdown arrangement.
Mr W said hed also suffered anxiety due to the issues and that his retirement had been 
delayed. 
Our investigator asked SWL for further information. It provided copies of Mr Ws 2020 and 
2021 annual statements. Both included information about the various lifestyling options. And 
gave a breakdown of how Mr W was invested, including showing that his biggest investment 
was in the Pension Protector fund. 
Our investigator considered the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. While she 
empathised that the fund performance Mr W had achieved couldve had an impact on his 
retirement plans, she felt that SWL had acted in line with his instructions. She felt SWLs 
letters and annual statements to Mr W had clearly explained what he needed to do if he 
wanted to switch funds. She also said SWL couldnt give Mr W advice on what investment to 
make. 
Mr W didnt agree with our investigator. He provided part of an article about the Pension 
Protector fund he was invested in. He also provided a factsheet dated 30 June 2022 for the 
Pension Protector fund. This gave the funds aim as:
To provide a return consistent with the variations in market annuity rates with the aim of 
reducing annuity conversion risk. 
Mr W also made the following points: 
his 20 November 2019 letter did constitute an instruction to SWL, not just an 
indication. He felt SWL had treated it as an instruction, as it had changed his 
retirement age.
He felt the purpose of the Pension Protector fund was for an annuity, not a general 
fund as our investigator had suggested. He said the factsheet hed shared with this 
service showed this. He also said that this fund was invested in sterling and long 
bonds, which he understood were extremely volatile and risky. Mr W felt that SWL 
had chosen to invest in the Pension Protector fund despite him stating he didnt want 
an annuity and that this had led to the fall in value of his pension. He also felt that the 
documentation hed been provided with in August 2019 and September 2020 hadnt 
made it clear how he was invested.
He didnt agree that all the decline in his fund value was due to market conditions. He 
felt that the Pension Protector fund had produced the decline. And noted that other 
funds he couldve been invested in had performed relatively better.
Mr W also felt that while SWL wasnt a financial advisor, it was certainly more than a product provider. He said it, rather than him, was responsible for selecting the funds 
for his pension. And that it had a duty of care to comply with his instructions.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that SWL didnt do 
anything wrong. I know this will be disappointing to Mr W. Ill explain the reasons for my 
decision.
I first considered whether SWL had clearly explained lifestyling to Mr W. And if it told him 
what he was invested in and how his investments would be moved as he approached his 
selected retirement age. I did this because Mr W said he wasnt aware which funds SWL 
would be moving his funds into and that he was unsure if it had ever told him that his 
investments would be moved into the Pension Protector fund. Mr W also said some of the 
documentation SWL had sent him, including the September 2020 letter referenced above, 
wasnt clear. 
Lifestyling and Mr Ws investments over time
Lifestyling means that the provider offers higher risk investments whilst the consumer is 
younger. Then gradually moves the investment into corporate bonds or gilts, and eventually 
cash, around five to ten years from the selected retirement date. Before pension freedoms, 
the consumer used to end up with 25% of their pension in cash - for the tax-free cash sum -   
and 75% invested in gilts, as these track annuity rates.
When Mr W first transferred his pension funds to SWL in 2007, he chose to initially invest in 
the Balanced Growth fund and to use lifestyling for his investments. I say this because the 
illustration dated 11 November 2007 for Mr Ws selected retirement age of 65 stated that his 
payments would initially be fully invested in the Balanced Growth fund. And that Mr W had 
chosen to use lifestyle switching, which would lead to him eventually being invested 75% in 
the Pension Protector fund and 25% in the Cash fund at age 65. I consider this shows that 
SWL clearly explained what Mr W had chosen and where his pension fund would be 
invested.
In 2007, the only lifestyle arrangement SWL offered aimed for a consumer to end up 
invested 75% in the Pension Protector fund and 25% in the Cash fund. Switching would start 
five years before retirement age. This is in line with the standard approach for lifestyling 
used at the time.
The government introduced changes to pension laws in April 2015 which allowed consumers 
more flexibility in the way they accessed their pension benefits, including taking benefits as 
cash or as a flexible drawdown. But Mr Ws pension was set up in 2007 before the pension 
freedoms came into effect. 
Im satisfied that the evidence shows that SWL did inform Mr W that there were other 
lifestyling options available to him. I say this because the booklet SWL sent Mr W alongside 
its August 2019 letter detailed all the available options, as follows:
Scottish Widows offers three preset Lifestyle Switching options: Cautious Lifestyle, 
Balanced Lifestyle and Opportunity Lifestyle. The booklet provided in August 2019 described the funds that would be used over time for 
each of the three lifestyle options that were now available. The description stated how the 
Balanced Lifestyle which Mr W had chosen to invest in would work. It said that it would be 
100% invested in the Mixed Fund until five years from the selected retirement age. And 
would then move to 75% in the Pension Protector fund and 25% in the Cash fund at the 
selected retirement age.
Ive seen no evidence that Mr W asked SWL to change his investments before his 20 
November 2019 letter. So Im satisfied that he was invested in line with his instructions up to 
that point. Im also satisfied that SWL had clearly explained to him on more than one 
occasion how his investments would change over time given the choices hed made when 
the pension first started. 
SWLs 1 August 2019 letter to Mr W confirmed he was invested in the lifestyle investment 
strategy: Balanced Investor targeting buying an annuity. It also said there were other 
investment options which may better suit his needs, and that he should consider changing 
how his pension was invested if he thought he would take his pension savings in a different 
way. 
I also understand that SWL sent Mr W annual statements. Ive been provided with copies of 
the 2020 and 2021 statements. These provided Mr W with a breakdown of where his 
pension was currently invested. This showed that the majority of his funds was invested in 
the Pension Protector fund, with the next biggest investment in the Cash fund. They also 
both stated on page 14: As youre getting close to your retirement age you should review 
your investment strategy to make sure its in line with your plans for retirement especially if 
you are considering deferring your retirement. 
From what Ive seen, the August 2019 documentation and the annual statements SWL sent, 
all explained that Mr W could change the way his plan is invested. And the annual 
statements also provided an investment breakdown showing Mr W was heavily invested in 
the Pension Protector fund. SWL also recommended that Mr W contacted a financial adviser 
if he wasnt sure what to do. 
Im therefore satisfied that SWL did clearly explained lifestyling to Mr W. And that it also 
regularly provided him with information about where his pension funds were invested, and 
how lifestyling would change this over time. So I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
I next considered Mr Ws 20 November 2019 letter. 
Mr Ws 20 November 2019 letter
Mr W said his 19 November 2019 letter to SWL had requested three changes to his pension:
To change his retirement date
To confirm he didnt intend to buy an annuity
To confirm he wanted to invest in a more risk averse portfolio than the one SWL had 
selected.
Mr W felt that as hed said he wanted "flexible access" to his funds, this indicated the 
Cautious Lifestyle (flexible access). I understand this wouldve led to Mr W being invested 
75% in the Balanced Portfolio 4 fund and 25% in the Balanced Portfolio 5 fund at his 
selected retirement age. SWL said it tried unsuccessfully to call Mr W on 28 November 2019. Mr W questioned 
whether SWL had tried to call him. And said that if it had, it had then made no effort to follow 
this up. However, I can see that SWL did write to Mr W on 29 November 2019. So Im 
satisfied that it did follow up with Mr W.
The letter confirmed SWL had changed Mr Ws retirement age to 59. But it didnt say 
anything about his points about not intending to buy an annuity, or about wanting to invest in 
a more risk averse portfolio. It also didnt explicitly say that SWL had made no changes to Mr 
Ws investments following his letter.
The letter did however list Mr Ws current investments. And said that these had been 
changed in line with his new retirement date. It said Mr W could call SWL to cancel the 
remaining switches at any time. And that he should ensure that his lifestyle strategy 
remained aligned to his retirement goals. SWL said that although its letter had explained the 
lifestyle switch process, Mr W hadnt told it the information it had provided was incorrect, or 
not what hed requested.
SWL said that Mr W had shared his thoughts on what he might do at his selected retirement 
age. But hadnt provided an instruction to change funds or change the lifestyle switching. It 
said that it didnt confirm anything in writing to him as it hadnt made any fund changes. It 
also said that it asked him to review his options to ensure his lifestyle investment strategy 
remained aligned to his retirement options. 
I carefully considered what Mr W wrote in his 20 November 2019 letter. And while I agree 
that he did request a change to his selected retirement age from 65 to 59, I dont agree that 
he confirmed he didnt want to buy an annuity. Nor do I agree that he confirmed that he 
wanted to invest in a more risk averse portfolio.
I say this because Mr Ws 20 November 2019 letter stated the following:
Based on [my request to change my targeted retirement age to 59] the funds you have 
selected should probably reflect a more risk averse approach rather than the current portfolio 
which seems to fluctuate wildly. 
I am not at this juncture considering an annuity but am considering a flexible drawdown 
against my mention[ed] fund. This may change but is my current thinking.
I acknowledge that SWL didnt explicitly ask Mr W for clarification on what hed meant to 
happen after his 20 November 2019 letter. And while I understand that Mr W doesnt agree 
that he shouldve contacted SWL to tell it he had issues with what it outlined in its 29 
November 2019 letter, because the letter hadnt been explicit about ignoring his instructions, 
I dont agree. I say this because I consider the 29 November 2019 letter clearly explained 
what Mr W was invested in at that time. And told him what he needed to do if he wanted his 
investments to change.
Im of the view that at no point in Mr Ws letter did he instruct SWL to move him into the 
Balanced Portfolio 4 fund, or any other fund. Nor did he instruct SWL to put him in a flexible 
access fund. While I agree that Mr W indicated that he wanted less volatility, I dont agree 
that he gave SWL a specific instruction. I say this because he repeatedly used words like 
probably and considering in his letter. And said that his current thinking may change. 
From what Ive seen, Mr W had clear information about the available funds so could have 
requested a specific investment if hed wanted to. But Im satisfied he didnt make such a 
request. And I dont think his thoughts about what he might do were enough for SWL to have 
known exactly what he wanted to do. So I dont uphold this part of the complaint, as I dont agree that SWL failed to act on Mr Ws instructions.
I acknowledge that Mr W felt that although SWL wasnt a financial advisor, it, rather than 
him, was responsible for selecting the funds for his pension. But I dont agree. SWL cant 
advise customers on whether certain investments are better for them or not. It can only 
provide information so that a consumer can make his own informed choices. I consider it has 
done this here.
While SWL is responsible for selecting the range of available funds, it had no responsibility 
for selecting what Mr W is invested in  that was fully his choice. I consider that SWL made 
this clear in the documentation it sent to Mr W. So I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Mr W also said that the Pension Protector fund had been mis-represented as a stable fund. 
He felt it was intended for those intending to buy an annuity or retire immediately. So I next 
considered whether it was a reasonable investment for the Balanced Lifestyle option.
Pension Protector fund and its performance
Mr W said he felt the Pension Protector fund was for customers who wanted to buy an 
annuity. He said the factsheet hed shared with this service showed this. He also felt that as 
the fund was invested in sterling and long bonds, it was extremely volatile and risky. Mr W 
also said that hed seen articles in the national press about the Pension Protector fund and 
that these had led to his concerns about the fund.
For these reasons, Mr W felt that it was the wrong fund for him to be invested in after hed 
told SWL that he didnt want an annuity. He felt this had led to the fall in value of his pension.
SWL said that Mr Ws funds werent invested in an annuity fund rather than a drawdown 
fund. It said the lifestyling strategy wasnt specific to those taking an annuity rather than a 
drawdown, but was for all customers approaching retirement age.
I agree that some of SWLs documentation, for example its 1 August 2019 letter and the 
Pension Protector fund factsheet, do indicate that that the Pension Protector fund is targeted 
at annuity buyers.
SWL asked Mr W to consider whether his investments still matched his retirement plans in 
its 1 August 2019 letter. It said that his pension was invested on the basis that hed choose 
to buy an annuity at retirement. This statement was correct, as when Mr W first set up his 
pension with SWL, he did choose this option.
SWL also said that the aim of lifestyling was to switch to what are deemed to be lower risk 
investments to help protect the value of the pension, but that sometimes market conditions 
might mean that the aim isnt met. Im satisfied that this is what has happened here. I know 
Mr W doesnt agree. He strongly believes that the Pension Protector fund wasnt fit for 
purpose. But Ive not seen any evidence of that. And Im not persuaded that SWL did 
anything wrong. 
While I acknowledge that the Pension Protector fund factsheet states that it aims to reduce 
annuity conversion risk, I dont agree that it was inappropriately used here. Nor do I agree 
that SWL misrepresented it as a low-risk fund. I consider that the Pension Protector fund is a 
low-risk fund designed for people nearing retirement age. And I think that the documentation 
SWL sent to Mr W over the years fairly represented it. So I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint. 
Mr W also felt that his pension fund had lost value because it was invested in the Pension Protector fund. He said that other funds he couldve been invested in had performed 
relatively better.  And didnt agree that all the decline in his fund value was due to market 
conditions. 
Ive already explained why I dont agree that SWL failed to follow Mr Ws instructions, and 
why I dont consider that the Pension Protector fund was inappropriate for him. So although 
Mr W strongly considers that the Pension Protector fund has led to the decrease in his 
pension, I cant fairly agree that SWL is responsible for this. 
I say this because future investment performance can change significantly over time, due to 
unforeseeable events. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to expect SWL to have known 
what would happen. 
I do understand how distressing it has been for Mr W to see his pension fund value fall, and 
continue to fall. And I am sorry for what hes gone through. 
But while I acknowledge that the Pension Protector fund hasnt always performed as well as 
some other funds, I cant hold SWL responsible for any potential investment losses. This is 
because, as our investigator noted, this would require us to apply hindsight, which is not 
something we do. I also dont agree that SWL failed to follow an instruction from Mr W to 
move his investments from the Pension Protector fund. Therefore it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman