DRN-3302412
Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) switched his student account to a 
graduate one before he completed his studies and this led to him being charged interest 
when he shouldnt have been.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Gs concerns. She thought that it needed to refund 
the charges it applied after it was provided with the documentation required to switch Mr Gs 
account back to a graduate one in January 2021. Santander agreed with this but Mr G didnt 
and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Santander has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr G is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Mr G is unhappy that his account was switched to a graduate account before he completed 
his studies. Hes said its unfair that the account switch took place even after he went into 
branch to explain that hadnt or wasnt due to complete his studies until late than he 
originally intended. I dont know what was discussed in branch, or even if a discussion took 
place. However, what I do know is that Mr G would have had to provide supporting 
documentation to confirm when he completed his studies. 
It looks like Mr G was told about the need to provide this information to a Santander branch. 
And it isnt in dispute that, for whatever reason, this documentation wasnt provided until         
January 2021. There has been suggestion this might have been because of the general 
situation in 2020. But Ive not been provided with a valid reason that accounts for the 
substantial delay here.
As this documentation was required to change Mr G account back, Mr G appears to have 
been told this and given the terms and conditions of the account meant Santander was due 
to apply interest on a portion of Mr Gs balance, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Santander to have added the interest it did to Mr Gs account in the months leading up to 
January 2021. And as Santander has already refunded the charges it added after Mr G 
provided the required documentation, in January 2021, it follows that Im satisfied what it has 
already done to put things right is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case.  
Overall and having considered everything, while I do appreciate Mr Gs strength of feeling on 
this matter, I think that what Santander has already agreed to do to put things right for Mr G 
is fair and reasonable. So Im not requiring it to do anything more and I leave it up to Mr G to
decide whether to accept its offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Santander UK Plc has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr G is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman