DRN-2459293
The complaint
Miss H complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited wont compensate her for further 
damage she says it caused to her home when its agents carried out a repair under her home 
emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Miss H says she noticed a very small leak coming from her toilet on Boxing Day 2019. She 
says it had accumulated about 1cm of water over a twenty four-hour period in the very small 
receptacle she placed underneath the pipe where she could feel wetness. 
She called Acromas the following day and asked for a call-out under her home emergency 
insurance policy. She says when the first plumber came the same day, the leak was so small 
it took him half an hour to find it. She says, among other things, he felt the carpet but 
couldnt find any dampness.
Miss H says while the first plumber was working on the leak she and two friends who were 
downstairs with her heard a huge escape of water. She says she called upstairs to ask the 
plumber if he was managing and he said he was. She says he left her home about 20 
minutes later saying it was all sorted. 
Miss H says when she and her friends went upstairs they found a huge mess in the 
bathroom caused by the escape of water. She says the lid to the cistern no longer fitted 
properly. And she says water still seemed to be coming from the pipe, although she and her 
friends couldnt be sure because of the water in the surrounding area. She says it was 
around this time she first saw the stain on her living room ceiling, directly below the area of 
the toilet.  So she called Acromas and asked it to send out a different plumber.
Miss H says the second plumber told her the leak had been fixed by the first plumber. But he 
adjusted a valve so the cistern lid fitted correctly. Miss H says the second plumber told her 
she could paint over the stain on the ceiling.
When Miss H complained to Acromas about what had happened, it offered her £50 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed had having to call out a second 
plumber to adjust the cistern lid. But it didnt accept the first plumbers poor workmanship 
had caused the stain on Miss Hs ceiling.
Unhappy with this, Miss H brought her complaint to us. She wants Acromas to apologise for 
what happened, pay her £500 to get her ceiling repainted and compensate her for the time 
and stress its caused her.
The investigator who looked at Miss Hs complaint didnt think Acromas needed to do 
anything differently. That was because she didnt think there was enough evidence that a 
mistake by the first plumber led to the ceiling damage. But she did think it was right for 
Acromas to offer Miss H £50 in compensation for the cistern lid needing to be adjusted by 
the second plumber.
Miss H disagrees and so her complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that Acromas has dealt with Miss Hs complaint fairly and need 
not take any further action. Ill explain why.
I should start by saying that my role isnt to decide what caused the stain on Miss Hs ceiling. 
Rather, its to decide if Acromas acted fairly and reasonably in its handling of Miss Hs home 
emergency claim. And  as Ive already indicated above  I do this by looking at all the 
relevant facts, arguments and evidence I have. 
Miss H says the stain was caused by the first plumber. She says when the first plumber 
arrived the carpet, flooring and ceiling were dry. She says the first plumber caused a 
sudden, explosive release of water, such that when he left he said hed made a mess which 
hed tried to clear up (but that the leak was fixed). She says her friends can confirm all of this 
and she says a painter and decorator from whom she got a quote for repainting the ceiling 
said a slow leak wouldnt have caused the staining. Apart from her own information, Miss H 
hasnt given us any other evidence to show that a release of water by the first plumber 
caused the stain on the ceiling.
Acromas, in its response to Miss Hs complaint, said it was unable to verify independently or 
agree the stain on the ceiling was caused by the first plumber's workmanship. It says its 
agent (that is, the company who sent the plumbers to Miss Hs home to fix the leak) says the 
stain on the ceiling was caused by residual water from the original leak. Acromas also says 
that, having listened to Miss Hs initial call, it believes the leak had been ongoing for some 
time before Miss H reported it. And Acromas says that, as the leak was getting worse, the 
water collected, eventually marking the ceiling below.
In her initial call with Acromas requesting a home emergency call-out, Miss H said the water 
wasnt flooding out. She says shed just noticed it in the last couple of days, it was gradually 
getting worse and was like a drip is coming from the pipes.
Ive seen the job sheet the first plumber completed at the time of his visit. This describes the 
problem as leak toilet - causing damage to the floor and gradually getting worse. In relation 
to the repair, it says found that the inlet valve was leaking between the copper and plastic 
connection changed inlet valve and leak was resolved.
Ive seen the job sheet the second plumber completed, again at the time of his visit. This 
says the plumber Attended site, checked previous repair on wc feed pipe, no leak found. Ph 
[Miss H] was worried that leak had reoccured as ceiling has discoloured since visit this 
morning.
Ive also seen the report the plumbing company sent to Acromas when it asked for its 
response to Miss Hs complaint. This says:
Our engineer  identified that the inlet valve was leaking between the copper and the 
plastic connection. He replaced the valve with new and on completion confirmed that the 
leak had been resolved.
We were called back to the property later that afternoon as the customer had reported that 
the leak had reoccurred. The engineer  confirmed that the leak had been resolved. He explained to the customer and advised that the marks on the ceiling were from residual 
water.
We have spoken to both engineers that attended the property and the first engineer has 
confirmed that the carpet in the bathroom was already wet where the inlet valve had been 
leaking for some time. 
The second engineer has advised that the ball valve was set slightly to [sic] high so the 
cistern lid didnt sit correctly but this wasnt causing any operational issues. It was corrected 
with a very simple adjustment. He has also confirmed that there were no issues with the pipe 
that had previously been repaired and there was no leak present at the time of his visit.
In relation to the noise of water Miss H and her friends heard, the first plumber says this 
wouldve been when he used his wet vac to remove the water from the cistern and tipped it 
into the bath, so he could carry out the repair. Miss H says the plumber didnt have a wet vac 
with him. The plumbing company has given us a copy of its operations manual showing a 
wet vac is a standard piece of equipment its plumbers carry.   
 
It's clear from all the evidence on Miss Hs case file  including the evidence Ive referred to 
above  that Miss H and Acromas plumbers dont agree about what happened and why. 
Essentially, Miss H says the plumber caused the damage, while the plumbers say the 
damage was caused by residual water from the original leak.
As Ive said before, my role isnt to decide what caused the damage to Miss Hs home. Its to 
decide if Acromas acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with her claim as it did. 
For Miss Hs complaint about the ceiling damage to succeed, she must show it was most 
likely caused by something the first plumber did. And from what she and the plumber say, 
she wasnt physically present in her bathroom when he was fixing the leak  so she didnt 
see what happened. Miss Hs decorator told her a slow leak wouldnt have caused the 
ceiling to stain. This doesnt make sense to me as I think any moisture in contact with plaster 
work will cause staining, whether released by force or gradually. 
As against this, Acromas has a report from its pluming expert saying the ceiling damage was 
caused by residual water from the original leak, as well as job sheets from both plumbers 
visits, the first of which refers to damage occurring to the flooring from the original leak. This, 
of course, isnt independent evidence. But the two job sheets are from the day everything 
happened and, to me, that makes them reasonably strong evidence.
 
I know Miss H has very strong views on her complaint and so I know how much my decision 
will disappoint her. But with the only contrary evidence being Miss Hs own recollections, I 
think it was fair and reasonable of Acromas to rely on the evidence it got from its agent to 
decline this part of Miss Hs claim.  Miss Hs recollections on their own  with, as I say, no 
other evidence to back up what she says  arent enough for me to think Acromas has 
treated her unfairly.
I do also think it was fair and reasonable of Acromas to offer Miss H compensation of £50 for 
the inconvenience of having to make a second call-out for the cistern lid to be adjusted.
Miss H has made many arguments in response to our investigators view on her complaint. 
And while I havent referred to all of them in this decision, I have considered them  as Ive 
considered all the other evidence and arguments on this complaint. But they havent 
changed my conclusions. 
My final decisionI uphold Miss Hs complaint in part. 
Acromas Insurance Company Limited has already offered to pay Miss H £50 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Acromas Insurance Company Limited should pay Miss H £50. I make 
no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman