DRN-4284104
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that TSB Bank plc wont refund the money she lost after falling victim 
to a scam.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise what happened in brief.
In late 2017, Mrs H was contacted by a property company. They provided documents setting 
out a corporate bond, backed by an FCA-registered compliance company and a security 
trustee. Mrs H was persuaded to invest £20,000 for a 7.5% annual return. She funded this 
with her savings, and paid it from her TSB current account using her online banking. She 
was provided with a bond certificate.
Mrs H received returns in 2018 and 2019, but these stopped. She was contacted by the 
police, who were investigating the company. The company has gone into liquidation. Mrs H 
believes shes been the victim of an investment scam.
In 2023, Mrs H came to our service. Shed appointed representatives to complain to TSB, 
but it appears their complaint letter went to a different business instead. Her representatives 
argue that TSB should have prevented the scam by looking further into Mrs Hs investment 
or warning her about the possibility of scams.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found that at the time of the investment, there were no warnings, investigations, or anything 
else which would have reasonably shown this was a scam. Mrs Hs representatives 
appealed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what I can see, investigations into the property company have not concluded, so it has 
not been determined whether this was really a scam  as opposed to, for example, a 
company that was run poorly, fell into liquidation, and was no longer able to pay its investors. 
However, I accept that its likely and plausible that this was a scam, so I am willing to treat it 
as such in this decision. I also understand that Mrs H lost a good deal of money here  for 
which she has my sympathy. I appreciate this cant have been an easy time for her, and I do 
appreciate why she feels that her money should be returned. Its worth keeping in mind that 
its the property company who are primarily responsible for what happened, and who really 
owe Mrs H her money back. But I can only consider what TSB did. Having carefully 
considered everything that both sides have said and provided, I cant fairly hold TSB liable 
for Mrs Hs loss. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mrs H authorised the payment involved. So although she didnt intend 
the money to go to a scam or a failing investment, under the Payment Services Regulations 
she is liable for the loss in the first instance. And broadly speaking, TSB had an obligation to 
follow her instructions  the starting position in law is that banks are expected to process 
payments that a customer authorises them to make. 
TSB should have been on the lookout for payments which could be the result of fraud or 
scams, to help prevent them. But I also accept that a balance must be struck between 
identifying and responding to potentially fraudulent payments, and ensuring theres minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments. Ive thought carefully about whether TSB should have 
done more in Mrs Hs case.
I cant see that TSB were made aware of Mrs H being vulnerable or being victim to any 
previous scams before this. The payment was funded from Mrs Hs savings, and its not 
unusual for customers to occasionally make very large payments using their savings  
indeed, thats a rather normal way to use savings. The payment did not drain Mrs Hs current 
account  the remaining balance was the same as before this incident. Further, this was a 
singular payment, rather than multiple rapid ones, sent to a UK bank account of a registered 
business, authorised by their genuine customer. On the other hand, this was indeed a very 
large payment, to a new payee, which was not really in character with Mrs Hs previous 
spending. So theres an argument that TSB should have intervened.
The thing is that even if TSB had flagged the payment and given Mrs H scam warnings or 
asked further questions about her reasons for paying, I find its not likely or plausible that 
TSB would have uncovered a scam here, and its more likely than not that Mrs H wouldve 
still gone ahead.
I say this because Mrs H was paying an established UK company which had been trading for 
over two years, for an investment backed by an FCA-registered business. The returns on 
offer were not unviable, and Mrs H had been given professional documentation setting out a 
costed plan and the risks involved, and setting out that the bond was safeguarded by an 
independent security trustee.
At the time, there were no warnings or investigations against the companies involved. It 
would be unreasonable to expect TSB to have investigated the individual adviser Mrs H 
spoke to, or to have assessed the investment advice given or even given her investment 
advice themselves. That would go beyond what Id expect here. And I cant see that theyd 
have grounds to do so  the matter would have looked genuine at the time. I do not see that 
TSB could have reasonably foreseen that Mrs H would be scammed, and there was nothing 
which reasonably put TSB on notice that the payment would facilitate fraud. Indeed, the 
police only began investigating this matter some years after Mrs Hs payment and are still 
looking into it. In the circumstances of this case, I dont see how I could reasonably expect 
TSB to uncover this scam years before the police. Realistically, its only with the benefit of 
hindsight that the bank might reasonably know this was a scam.
So even if TSB had questioned Mrs H, I would not have expected them to block the 
payment. And even if theyd provided her with general warnings about cold callers and the 
possibility of a scam, I do not see that it was likely to make a difference here. Ultimately, at 
the time there was not a reasonable basis on which to conclude this was a scam, whereas 
Mrs H had been given good reason to feel reassured that this was a legitimate investment.Next, Ive considered whether TSB should have done more to try to recover Mrs Hs money 
after they were made aware of the scam. Unfortunately, TSB were only told about this 
around half a decade after the fact, after the company involved had gone into liquidation. 
And given what the administrators have said about the likelihood of funds being available, 
along with the time thats passed and the tendency for scammers to move money on as 
quickly as possible, I dont think TSB could have reasonably recovered Mrs Hs money by 
the time they were told this was an alleged scam.
So while Im very sorry to hear about what happened to Mrs H, I dont think TSB should be 
held responsible for her loss. And so I cant fairly tell TSB to refund Mrs Hs money in this 
case. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs H, though it is not my intention to 
disappoint her. But Im unable to reasonably come to another conclusion.
Lastly, I appreciate that TSB did not initially respond to Mrs Hs complaint. But it appears 
thats because her representatives sent the complaint to another business instead of TSB.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman