DRN-3182057
The complaint
Mr R complains that Origen Financial Services Limited failed to provide him with timely 
advice on transferring some pension benefits, and using them to purchase an annuity. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. In that decision I explained 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what Origen needed to do to put things 
right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness, 
I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said; 
Mr R held pension benefits in an occupational pension scheme (OPS). In 
September 2019 the trustees of the OPS wrote to members, including Mr R, to 
provide details of a scheme they were proposing. Essentially members would be 
offered a cash enhancement to their transfer value if they decided to move their 
benefits from the OPS to a personal pension arrangement. The trustees engaged 
Origen to provide members with the independent financial advice that was required 
by legislation before transfers of this nature could be completed.
Mr R immediately engaged with that process and arranged to meet with Origen. Their 
initial meeting was cancelled due to the advisor being ill, but the meeting eventually 
took place by telephone on 24 October 2019. Origen told Mr R that he should expect 
its recommendations report to be issued in the following two or three weeks.
During November 2019 there was regular communication between Mr R and Origen. 
Whilst preparing its report Origen asked Mr R for some further information about 
some medical conditions that he suffered from. It appears that Mr R always provided 
any information requested by return.
The enhancement that had been offered to the transfer value by the OPS trustees 
was time limited. However, Origen confirmed to Mr R that those dates had been 
extended. But, on 28 November it reassured him that the transfer should complete by 
the original deadline of 16 December. Throughout December Mr R regularly chased 
the completion of the advice report however it wasnt finally issued to him until 
27 December. It told Mr R that the annuity quotes were guaranteed if he accepted 
them by 11 December.
Mr R immediately pointed out to Origen that the acceptance deadline had expired 
before the report had been issued. Origen then provided him with new quotations 
showing a small rise in the annuity that would be paid if the quotations were accepted 
by 12 January 2020.
Mr R accepted the quotation on 3 January and as part of his response provided 
Origen with updated test results relating to one of his medical conditions. Those 
results showed a slight worsening of his condition. Despite a number of 
conversations with Origen Mr R and his wife went away on holiday on 29 January 
with no further progress on getting the annuity put into payment.
At the start of February Origen notified Mr R that it had made an error when inputting 
the results of his medical tests when it created the original quotations. As a result of 
correcting that error, the annuity he could be paid had been reduced by around 
£400 per annum. But communication between Mr R and Origen was difficult whilst he 
was away since he didnt have access to reliable telephone or WIFI services.
On his return from holiday Mr R again sought confirmation of the current status of his 
pension transfer and annuity purchase. It hadnt moved forwards and the OPS 
administrators advised him that the deadline to receive the enhancement to the 
transfer was that day. So Mr R says that he was left with little option but to accept the 
revised annuity quotation and work with the annuity provider and OPS administrator 
to complete the transfer. Mr Rs pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  
generally known as tax free cash) was paid on 24 February, and first annuity 
payment at the start of March.
When it first looked at Mr Rs complaint Origen accepted that it hadnt provided its 
advice report, and so set up the annuity, as quickly as it had agreed. But it didnt 
think that the incorrect input of Mr Rs medical test results had caused him to lose out 
 ultimately Mr R received the annuity that he was entitled to. But because of its 
delays Origen offered to pay Mr R, £1,804.85 (the value of one months annuity 
income) and a further £695.15 for the trouble and upset hed been caused. It later 
increased that offer by a further £500 making a total compensation offer of £3,000.
I think that there are reasonably two matters that I need to decide here. Firstly, 
whether Origen provided its advice to Mr R in a timely matter and, if not, whether that 
caused him any losses due to the delay in setting up his annuity. And secondly, 
whether Origens error in the input of Mr Rs medical test results has caused him to 
receive a lower annuity than he was entitled to. I will deal with the second of those 
matters first.
Origen accepts that it made an error when it input Mr Rs medical test results into its 
annuity quotation system. As a result of that error, the quotations it provided to Mr R 
were higher than they would have been if the correct results had been input. But, 
fortunately, Mr R later supplied some updated results that highlighted the error 
Origen had made. So when Mr R went to accept the annuity quotation, it had been 
provided based on the correct information.
I dont underestimate how disappointing that discovery would have been for Mr R. He 
had no way of easily checking that Origen had correctly entered the information hed 
provided. So he would have had no way of knowing that the quotations he received 
were inflated. But importantly, those inflated annuity rates were not available to Mr R 
 and even if they had gone so far as having been put into payment, it wouldnt have 
been unreasonable for the annuity provider to reduce the amount it was paying once 
the mistake had been discovered. So I dont think Mr R has suffered any financial 
loss as a result of this error that Origen made. But I will deal with the trouble and 
upset this issue caused later in this decision.
Now turning to the advice process that Origen provided, and its actions in setting up 
Mr Rs annuity payment.
Origen was engaged by the trustees of the OPS to provide advice to the scheme 
members about an enhanced transfer value that was being offered. Origen was paid 
for that work by the OPS  so Mr R didnt pay Origen a fee for its advice. But I dont 
think that in anyway negated Origens responsibilities to Mr R, and to ensure that he 
was treated fairly.I noted in my introduction that Mr Rs original meeting with Origen was cancelled due 
to the illness of the advisor. That is unfortunate, but entirely outside the control of 
Origen. I dont think it would be reasonable to consider that false start as contributing 
to any delays that Mr R experienced.
So I think the right point for me to consider the commencement of the advice process 
would be the telephone meeting that took place between Mr R and Origen on 
24 October 2019. It seems from his testimony that Mr R entered into that meeting 
with a very clear idea of how he wished to proceed. He says that he provided Origen 
with directions about his wish to take an immediate annuity, and details about how 
that annuity should be structured in terms of guarantee periods, annual increases, 
and dependent benefits.
Following the initial call, Origen agreed to provide its recommendations to Mr R within 
the next two to three weeks. Origen had to make sure that it followed the correct 
regulatory process and considered whether the transfer would be in Mr Rs best 
interests. But I think the choice it needed to look at was relatively straightforward 
given Mr Rs decision to take an immediate annuity  it needed to consider whether 
the pension he could receive direct from the occupational scheme would be better or 
worse than what Mr R could receive from the open market if he accepted the 
enhanced transfer value.
Rather than the two to three-week period that it had promised to Mr R, it took Origen 
over nine weeks to return to Mr R with its recommendation that he should accept the 
enhanced transfer and purchase an annuity on the open market. And even then, the 
report that it provided to Mr R contained a serious error in that the quotations it was 
based on had expired. Fortunately that didnt cause any loss to Mr R, since the 
revised quotations Origen provided a few days later were higher. But I have no 
doubts it would have caused additional worry and upset to Mr R.
Origen asked Mr R for some updated medical information when he accepted the 
revised quotations three days later. But it seems that Origens administrative 
processes let Mr R down once again  meaning that his application was sent onto 
the annuity provider after its deadline for acceptance. It wasnt until the end of 
January that Origen confirmed the annuity provider had agreed to honour the 
quotation.
By that time Mr R and his wife had set off on a holiday, and so found it difficult to 
continue communications with Origen. But it doesnt seem anything happened to 
progress Mr Rs annuity application during the two weeks that he was away. So when 
he returned to the UK, I can entirely understand why Mr R was so concerned to learn 
his annuity purchase had not been completed, and the final deadline imposed by the 
OPS trustees was imminent.
I havent seen anything that makes me think Mr R was responsible for any of the 
delays in putting his annuity into payment. He responded by return to any requests 
from Origen for information. And he bore no responsibility for the mistake that Origen 
made when inputting his medical test results into the quotation system. He had an 
expectation from his original meeting with Origen that matters would be concluded 
well before they actually were.
Like our investigator I think Mr Rs actual financial losses from those delays are 
twofold. Firstly, the delays meant that his annuity payments started much later than 
they might have if Origen had acted in line with its agreed timescales. I havent seen 
anything that suggests Mr Rs annuity payments were higher because of the delays, or that there was any improvement in the transfer value he received from the OPS. 
So he has simply lost out on the initial annuity payments he would have received. 
And those delays also meant that Mr R received his PCLS later than he would have 
done, and so was deprived of the use of that money for a period of time.
I think that, given its assurances to Mr R, it would have been reasonable for him to 
have expected Origen to provide its advice report within three weeks of their initial 
meeting. And given the speed at which Mr R has responded to all the other requests 
he received from Origen I think it likely that the annuity could have been put into 
payment within a further three-week period. So, based on that total period of six 
weeks, Id say it is reasonable to expect the entire process to have completed by 
5 December 2019. Mr Rs annuity purchase didnt complete until 24 February 2020  
that is a total delay of eleven weeks. So I intend to use that as the basis for the 
compensation I am directing below.
In its final response, and later telephone conversations, Origen offered a combined 
compensation payment to Mr R, comprising both compensation for a lost annuity 
payment, and compensation for his trouble and upset. By splitting those components 
it might suggest that Origen was offering Mr R over £1,000 for the trouble and upset 
it had caused to him.
Ive thought about that carefully. Since the compensation I intend to direct below 
covers far more than the simple single payment Origen offered, I think I should also 
apply my usual expectations to the compensation being paid towards the trouble and 
upset that was caused.
I can see that Mr R has spent a considerable time dealing with Origen in getting his 
annuity set up  and some of that time was spent during periods he was away from 
home on holiday. I have no doubts how distressing and frustrating that would have 
been for him. But in circumstances such as these I would normally expect to award 
an amount of £300 in respect of that inconvenience. And I think that is fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Origen hasnt provided us with any addition comments on my findings. 
But it has said it is disappointed with the time this Service has taken to deal with the 
complaint and the corresponding impact on the interest it will need to pay to Mr R. Mr R has 
said that he accepts my provisional findings. And he has confirmed that, in the tax year 
2019-2020 he only had income totalling around £3,000. So he wouldnt have been liable for 
any income tax on the additional annuity payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or arguments I see no 
reason to alter my provisional findings save for updating the redress to account for Mr Rs 
tax position. It follows that I uphold this complaint and will direct Origen to put things right. 
I have noted Origens comments about the time the Service has taken to conclude the 
complaint. But that isnt a matter for this decision. Origen has been informed about how it 
can take that issue further if it wishes to.Putting things right
I think that the commencement of Mr Rs annuity, and the payment of his PCLS, was 
delayed by a period of eleven weeks due to Origens administrative failures. So, to put things 
right, Origen should do the following;
Pay Mr R an amount equivalent to eleven weeks annuity income. It appears that 
Mr Rs annuity was purchased at a rate of £21,658.20 per annum so that 
compensation should equal £4,581.54. 
Mr R has confirmed that he wouldnt have needed to pay any income tax had he 
received those additional annuity payments. So no deduction should be made to that 
compensation thus reflecting Mr Rs marginal rate of taxation for the tax year 2019 
to 2020.
Origen should add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to these amounts from 
the approximate dates that they would have been paid to Mr R to the date of 
settlement*.
The payment of Mr Rs PCLS was also delayed by a period of eleven weeks. So he 
was deprived of the use of that money for that time. So Origen should pay Mr R 
simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum on the amount of his PCLS for a period of 
eleven weeks*.
Origen should pay an additional sum of £300 to Mr R in respect of the trouble and 
upset its administrative failings have caused to him.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Origen to take off tax from this interest. Origen must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Origen Financial Services 
Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman