The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Claim Hunters Ltd (CH) are charging him for a successful mis-sold 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) claim he says they had no authority to make.
What happened
In March 2019 CH received an online application to make a number of mis-sold PPI claims, 
against a number of different lenders, for Mr G. They submitted the applications and a claim 
against Lender L was successful. So CH invoiced Mr G for their fees.
Mr G has complained that CH had no authority to make any claims on his behalf. He says he 
didnt sign any Letters of Authority (LOAs) and that he made the claim to Lender L himself. 
So he doesnt think that CH are entitled to charge any fees.
Our investigator said that the online application was made from an IP address in Mr Gs area 
and contained his personal details. He says that none of the lenders CH made claims 
against on Mr Gs behalf queried his signature on the LOAs. The investigator also said that 
CH sent Mr G copies of the LOAs hed signed and copies of their terms of business. This 
included Mr Gs rights to cancel, and what hed need to do if he didnt want to continue with 
the claims. But Mr G didnt contact CH after receiving these, to either query why hed had 
them or to cancel the claims.
Because of the above, and because CH made the claims on Mr Hs behalf (one of which 
was ultimately successful) the investigator said that CH were entitled to charge their fees.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He said he didnt read any of the paperwork that CH 
sent him, and he didnt return any of their calls. He also says that the signature on the LOAs 
doesnt match the signatures on his passport, driving licence or bank card  copies of which 
he supplied to us. So he doesnt think he gave CH any authority to act for him, and he 
doesnt believe they have any right to charge any fees. Hes asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mr G; Ive reached 
the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
The application to CH was made online and on the basis of an electronic signature. These 
signatures will either be done by a finger or stylus on a touch screen device, such as a smart 
phone or tablet; or done by a mouse/mousepad on a device such as a laptop or desktop 
DRN-1873198computer. Because of the nature of these signatures they differ from a wet signature  one 
done by pen on paper.
Mr G has said the signatures on the LOAs dont match the signatures on his passport, 
drivers licence or bank card. For the reasons given, I wouldnt expect and electronic and wet 
signature to match. But I would expect them to be sufficiently similar that a lender would be 
able to match them with their records, and be satisfied that it was signed by the person it 
was claimed to be signed from.
From what Ive seen, the electronic signature was used on eight LOAs for claims against 
eight different lenders. Ive not seen anything to show me that any of these lenders rejected 
an LOA because of the signature. Nor did any of the eight lenders say that Mr G wasnt a 
customer of theirs.
As the investigator explained the, IP address from where the online application was made, 
and from where the electronic signatures were signed, is from a location in the vicinity of Mr 
Gs address. IP addresses dont provide a pinpoint location, only the general vicinity.
So for me to accept that Mr G didnt make the online application to CH, and didnt 
electronically sign the LOAs; it would have to have been done by someone in the genal 
vicinity of Mr G, who knew enough of his personal information to be able to make a claim 
(including which eight lenders hes had accounts with in the past), and could do an electronic 
signature sufficiently similar to Mr Gs that eight different lenders would accept it as genuine. 
I find it very unlikely that this would have happened.
CH sent copies of all of the paperwork to Mr G, and hes said he never read them. While it 
was his choice to read them or not, he didnt contact CH to ask why they were contacting 
him in the first place  something Id expect if you were contacted out of the blue by a 
company telling you theyd made claims on your behalf.
Mr G also says Lender L contacted him about the claim, saying theyd deal with him direct, 
and gave him a form to complete. And they didnt mention anything about CH. Ive seen that 
Lender L wrote to CH on 9 August 2019, acknowledging the claim theyd submitted for Mr G. 
Lender L also wrote to CH on 8 October 2019, telling them the claim had been successful. 
Lender L wrote to Mr G on 20 August 2019, asking him to complete a PPI form. This letter 
made no specific reference to CH, but I wouldnt necessarily expect it to. And Lender L also 
sent a copy of this letter to CH. By sending copies of all of these letters to CH, this shows me 
that Lender L recognised CH as Mr Gs representative in the claim.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr G initially instructed CH to act for him. CH 
made the claims theyd been asked to, and they wrote to Mr G confirming what they were 
doing. I appreciate that, when Mr G received the letters from Lender L, he may have decided 
to complete the claim himself. But this doesnt mean he disinstructed CH. CH had told him 
what he needed to do to cancel their services, and I havent seen anything to show me that 
Mr G tried to cancel.
Given this, I agree that CH are entitled to charge a fee in line with the terms Mr G agreed to, 
and CH sent him a copy of. CH charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the 
amount of work they actually did. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful 
claims would be done for free. Where a claim was successful, CHs fee may be more or less 
than the value of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of 
agreement. Just because CHs fee is higher than the value of the work they have done for 
Mr G doesn't make their fee unjustified.My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Claim Hunters Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman