DRN-3222419
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) failed to identify and 
resolve plumbing issues as soon as they should have and caused them additional costs, 
distress and inconvenience.          
   
What happened
Mr and Mrs P held a British Gas Homecare Three Plan for a property they rent out. It 
covered repairs to the plumbing and drainage. 
In May 2020 Mr and Mrs P contacted British Gas under their policy to report a damp patch in 
the downstairs toilet.  
An engineer visited the property but was unable to locate the source of the leak. While he 
was there, he did replace the washing machine valve and hose as there was a leak from the 
hot water outlet on the washing machine.
A further call out was booked for 1 August 2020 to look at several issues - a leak from the 
upstairs shower, a blocked kitchen mixer tap, and a leak in the downstairs toilet from the 
cistern. The engineer replaced the kitchen taps, tightened the flush pipe in the downstairs 
toilet and was satisfied it was resolved, and checked the upstairs shower. He wasnt able to 
find a leak in the shower pipes or trap. He told the tenant to monitor this.   
 
On 13 August 2020 an engineer attended as Mr and Mrs P had reported a leak from the 
upstairs from the toilet cistern damaging the floor and low water pressure in the downstairs 
toilet. The engineer identified a leak in the upstairs toilet but was unable to repair it without 
permission from Mr and Mrs P as he needed to cut through some wooden panels to access 
the cistern. He advised the tenant to use the downstairs toilet. Permission was given by Mr 
and Mrs P and the engineer completed the repair on 27 August 2020. It was tested and was 
no longer leaking.  
Mr and Mrs P reported a leak in the downstairs shower on 26 August 2020. The engineer 
rescheduled the appointment to 2 September 2020. He couldnt find any leaks in the upstairs 
shower that were attributable to the pipes or trap, but he cleaned up the debris which was 
restricting the water flow in the downstairs shower. He noted the shower tray seals were 
shallow. 
 
Mr and Mrs P requested a further visit on 7 September for the downstairs toilet as it wasnt 
flushing. This appointment was rescheduled, and a senior engineer was requested. He 
attended on 12 September and reported that the toilet was flushing but the waste wasnt 
being cleared as the bottom of the toilet was full of scale. The upstairs toilet was also noted 
not to be flushing and a replacement valve was ordered. 
Mr and Mrs P contacted British Gas and advised that they wanted compensation for poor 
service and to cancel their policy. British Gas advised that the part was on order and they 
called later that week to advise that they could fit it on 1 October. This visit was not 
completed as Mr and Mrs P had lost confidence in British Gas. 
 
Mr and Mrs P employed an independent contractor to undertake the repairs, and further 
repairs were also undertaken in January 2021. The total cost was £754. Mr and Mrs P also 
say that as a result of British Gass failure to provide a service, they have had to instruct a 
letting agent to deal with the property at a further monthly cost, and they have suffered 
distress and inconvenience, and reputational damage as landlords. 
British Gas have reimbursed Mr and Mrs P for all of the repairs and also reimbursed them 
the cost of the plumbing and drainage part of the insurance policy. This total payment was 
£880. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and he thought British 
Gass offer was fair.  
 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to 
review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding this complaint, and I will explain why below. 
I have reviewed the policy that was in place and the chronology of what happened very 
carefully. I can understand that it must have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs P to have had a 
number of visits to deal with the various leak issues that occurred, however, I think whilst the 
service could have been a bit better at times, British Gas and their agents have tried their 
best to sort the problems out, and that the refund of £880 provided to Mr and Mrs P is fair 
and reasonable.  
I can see that on each occasion that a call out was made, British Gas did send an engineer 
within a reasonable time. I can also see that several of the issues were resolved on the first 
visit including the washing machine valve and pipe, the kitchen mixer taps and the 
downstairs shower. 
With regard to the toilets, after the first visit in May, there was no further report of an issue 
until August. The engineer attended several times in August and on each occasion, he 
believed the issue to be resolved, or had ordered parts to repair it. But as the issues 
reoccurred into September, Mr and Mrs P decided to complain and get their own contractor. 
I can understand why they did this as they were conscious that the problem was taking time 
to resolve, and they have a responsibility to their tenants. However, it doesnt appear that the 
conditions were unsanitary and British Gas may well have been able to resolve the issue if 
they had been allowed to complete the job if Mr and Mrs P had not terminated the service. 
In terms of the payment made by British Gas, they agreed to pay the invoices for the repairs 
in both November 2020 and January 2021 totalling £754. 
The invoices include the supply and fit of new toilet pans and cisterns, reapplying silicone on 
the shower cubicles and fixing panels on concealed units. 
The terms of the policy state:Plumbing 
Whats covered
All repairs to the plumbing on your property, for example:
Your hot and cold water pipes between your internal stopcock up to , and including your taps 
and garden taps and the flexible pipes to your kitchen appliances. 
Whats not covered :
Showers and their parts, shower pumps, sanitary ware, spa baths, seals and grouting
So, under the terms of the policy, Mr and Mrs P would not have been eligible to have the 
toilet pans or cisterns replaced, or their shower silicone replaced.  
Therefore, in agreeing to meet the full cost of these invoices, which include items not 
covered by the policy I consider that British Gas have made a fair and reasonable offer. 
In addition, British Gas have refunded Mr and Mrs P the premiums for the plumbing and 
drainage part of their policy, even though they have received the benefit of some successful 
repairs such as the replacement of the washing machine hose, and the replacement kitchen 
mixer tap. 
Mr and Mrs P have asked for reimbursement of the managing agents fees and also for 
additional compensation for distress and inconvenience. I consider that Mr and Mrs P chose 
to use a managing agent for their property rather than had to, and the managing agent is 
responsible for a wide variety of other tasks related to the tenancy, not just the repairs to 
plumbing and drainage, and so I dont think it is reasonable for British Gas to meet this cost.
  
I have considered the distress and inconvenience caused, but as British Gas have already 
paid Mr and Mr P for more repairs than they would have been entitled to under the policy, I 
dont think they need to pay anything further.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and British Gas Insurance Limited dont need 
to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman