DRN-2847268
The complaint
Mrs L complains UK Credit Limited irresponsibly lend to her as she says it didnt complete 
reasonable or proportionate checks.  
What happened
In May 2019 UK Credit lent Mrs L a guarantor loan of £10,000. It was over a term of 60 
months with monthly payments of £330.14. The loan attracted an APR of 35.9% and had a 
total repayable value of £19,808.40.
In July 2020 Mrs L complained to UK Credit. She said her loan had never been affordable; 
and that UK Credit hadnt completed proportionate checks when approving the loan. 
UK Credit reviewed Mrs Ls complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary, it said it completed 
proportionate checks at the time and the loan was affordable. It added it had reviewed 
Mrs Ls credit file and bank statements at the time of her complaint to get an updated 
position of her financial situation (thereby making the checks proportionate)  and it said this 
further review also showed the loan was affordable.
As Mrs L was unhappy with UK Credits outcome, she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ls complaint. They said UK Credit had information about 
Mrs Ls financial circumstances which showed she was already overindebted. They said 
Mrs L had topped up her borrowing with an existing lender on a number of occasions and it 
was irresponsible of UK Credit to have approved the loan, given her level of borrowing was 
already unsustainable.  
UK Credit didnt agree with our investigators outcome. It said it conducted a soft credit 
check as part of Mrs Ls application, so it wouldnt have been able to verify Mrs L was 
topping up existing loans with the same provider. It said it had no reason to doubt Mrs Ls 
financial position had improved at the time it lent to her  as its credit file search showed 
shed maintained her existing credit repayments over a reasonable period. And because of 
this it said it had no cause to request further information from Mrs L to support her 
affordability assessment. UK Credit also said it reviewed the affordability when Mrs L raised 
her complaint, and it says she was able to afford the loan, even when taking into account 
higher expenses than were declared but are apparent from the bank statements. Ultimately, 
UK Credit maintains its position that its checks were proportionate, and the loan was 
affordable and sustainable for Mrs L.
As UK Credit disagreed with our investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im upholding Mrs Ls complaint. 
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ls complaint.   
UK Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend to Mrs L irresponsibly. 
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time UK Credit lent required it to carry 
out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mrs Ls ability to 
afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term, without causing her financial difficulties.  
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for UK Credit to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtains from these checks to make a fair lending decision.
UK Credit has said it completed an affordability assessment as well as conducting a credit 
search to establish Mrs Ls creditworthiness. It has said it identified two historic defaults 
(which were more than 18 months prior to this loan), and two recent defaults in October 
2018 on Mrs Ls credit file, as well as a CCJ from 2016. It has said the explanation Mrs L 
provided about the recent defaults, together with her credit history showing all her accounts 
had been kept up to date from October 2018, suggested she was back in control of her 
finances. UK Credit said Mrs Ls credit file didnt show signs of financial distress and the 
explanations around the adverse credit were acceptable to it. 
It also said Mrs L had a disposable income of around £550 each month, which would have 
covered the payments to this loan of £330.14 and left a surplus for discretionary or 
unexpected outgoings. 
UK Credit says these checks combined were proportionate and all showed Mrs L could 
afford the loan and as such its decision to lend was fair.
Ive carefully considered UK Credits arguments. And having done so, Im not persuaded it 
did lend responsibly to Mrs L.
Having looked through the credit file search UK Credit has provided from the time of the 
loan, Im satisfied theres enough evidence to suggest the checks werent proportionate and 
that based on the information it already had Mrs L wasnt a suitable applicant to be lent to. 
I say this because the credit file search UK Credit obtained showed Mrs L had another 
outstanding loan with a balance of £10,953. It could see this loan started in July 2018 and 
had a term of 60 months, meaning it still had around 50 months to run at the point of this 
lending. It could also see that Mrs L had increased her borrowing with high cost credit 
lenders over the previous 18 months, from £2,500 in November 2017 to £4,750 in December 
2017, £8,000 in February 2018 and £10,000 in July 2018. 
UK Credit said in its response to this service that it would have only known Mrs L was 
topping up her existing loan if Mrs L had declared the information  because it only 
conducted a soft credit file search and the name of lenders dont appear. While I accept the 
names of lenders may not appear on this type of search, Im still satisfied there were 
sufficient markers on the file to suggest UK Credit conduct further checks on Mrs Ls 
financial circumstances.  Regardless of the type of search, UK Credit had the details of Mrs Ls borrowing, showing 
the start and end dates of the loans, the total amount borrowed, the monthly payments and 
the terms. With all of this information UK Credit would have been able to build a picture of 
Mrs Ls lending history and identify she was increasing her indebtedness over a relatively 
short period of time  regardless of the lender. As such I dont consider it material for UK 
Credit to have known which lender Mrs L was borrowing from. The fact is UK Credit could 
see this borrowing and should have taken it into account when making its lending decision. 
Ive also listened to the initial call between Mrs L and UK Credits underwriter, and the 
purpose of this loan is detailed as home improvements. This would have indicated to 
UK Credit that Mrs L was further increasing her indebtedness, as opposed to looking to 
consolidate any existing debts she had.  
In addition to this increased level of borrowing, Mrs L declared to UK Credits underwriter 
during the call that she was making weekly payments towards her defaults and CCJ, as well 
as two home credit loans she had. The total defaulted balances on the credit search showed 
as £1,941, and Mrs Ls testimony in the call was that she believed the CCJ, which was 
registered as £1,582 in 2016, was nearly settled. 
UK Credit says it was happy with the explanation Mrs L provided for her recent defaults. But 
I dont think this ought to have been so easily accepted without further consideration, as UK 
Credit seems to have done here. The increased indebtedness in a relatively short and recent 
period of time, together with two fairly recent defaults, further historic defaults and the CCJ 
all build a picture of Mrs Ls financial position  and it doesnt persuade me, as it seems to 
have persuaded UK Credit, that Mrs Ls financial position was getting better. 
I consider Mrs Ls financial position was getting worse, and she was becoming more reliant 
on credit to meet her day to day expenses. This pattern of borrowing suggests to me 
someone who has problems managing their money, and is already in a cycle of debt before 
this loan was approved.
During the call Mrs L also confirmed she receives housing benefit and her rent is paid 
directly to her landlord. I think this should have raised questions with UK Credit and ought to 
have prompted further investigation, as Id question why a tenant would be looking to make 
home improvements on such a large scale as £10,000. I think the likelihood is, on balance, 
that Mrs L needed the money to service her existing expenses. 
UK Credit has said the more recent credit search it completed on Mrs L as part of this 
complaint shows she has maintained the payments to her loans without any apparent 
problems. It says this shows the loan it provided was affordable and sustainable for Mrs L. 
Mrs L has said she prioritised the payments to UK Credit above other essential expenditure 
 because she didnt want her guarantor to have to step in and make payments. So, Im not 
satisfied Mrs L making the payments to the loan when they were due does mean it was 
sustainable for her. And while the loan may have looked affordable, UK Credit needed to 
ensure it wasnt putting Mrs L in a worse financial position by approving the loan.
Taking this all into account, I consider the checks UK Credit completed at the point of the 
loan should have been more detailed, based on the information it had from the credit file 
search. These further checks ought to have demonstrated to UK Credit that the loan 
wouldnt be sustainable for Mrs L and it was further increasing her indebtedness in a way 
that would cause financial harm. So, it therefore follows I dont think Mrs Ls loan should 
have been agreed by UK Credit.
 
Putting things rightTo settle Mrs Ls complaint UK Credit should do the following:
Add up the total amount of money Mrs L received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Mrs L made should be deducted from this amount. 
oIf this results in Mrs L having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from 
the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then UK Credit should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs L.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Ls credit file about this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to take off tax from this interest. UK Credit 
must give Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ls complaint about UK Credit Limited and direct it to 
put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman