DRN-3308029
The complaint
Ms L has complained that Equifax Limited reported incorrect information on her credit file.
What happened
Ms L was having trouble getting credit. In September 2019, she found that another persons 
credit history had been added to her file, including negative information. She discovered that 
her bank had linked her file with this other individual as they had similar details.
Ms L complained. Her bank admitted the error and gave her a letter to confirm the other 
persons information should be removed. Ms L gave Equifax this letter and set out which 
details were hers and which were the other persons. Over the following months, Equifax 
raised several disputes with the bank, but the bank kept giving them the same response  
which just said to get in touch with customer services.
In March 2020  six months on  the banks incorrect information was finally removed. But 
by that point, another company had linked Ms L to the other individual, and it took several 
more months before Equifax raised a dispute, and further months before that information 
was corrected too.
Equifax agreed theyd taken too long to deal with Ms Ls complaint and apologised. Our 
investigator looked into things independently and felt that was sufficient, as the error had 
primarily been caused by Ms Ls bank.
Ms L asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh. She asked if her Equifax 
subscription fees could be refunded, as shed only signed up so she could better keep track 
of her file while the disputes were ongoing. The complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Ms L and Equifax a provisional decision on 12 January 2022, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
From the evidence I have, it looks like Ms L was linked to the other individual due to 
incorrect information her bank provided. And her bank appears to have admitted their error. 
It also looks like, despite telling Ms L theyd fix the matter, her bank gave a different  and 
rather unhelpful  set of responses to Equifax. So theres only so much I can see Equifax are 
responsible for here. Ive also kept in mind that Equifax broadly had some reliance on the 
information that they were given.
With that said, the bank say that they sent requests of their own to Equifax to remove the 
incorrect information, and that Equifax didnt act on this until March 2020. Further, Ms L 
provided the banks letter to Equifax confirming the information was incorrect very early on in 
the process  so Equifax were on notice that they were reporting someone elses data and 
that the bank had already confirmed this. And in response to the disputes, the bank did not 
say the information was correct  they just sent Equifax generic responses saying to speak 
to customer services. With that in mind, I think Equifax should have done more to escalate 
the issue with the bank so they could work things out together. Instead, it looks like on each 
occasion Equifax just accepted these lacking responses, waited for Ms L to push back, and 
then repeated the same dispute process again as if that was likely to achieve a different 
outcome. That doesnt seem like the most helpful approach when they already had 
confirmation in writing from the bank that the information should be removed.
I also note that Ms L was clear and consistent from the start about which details were hers 
and which were this other individuals. So its disappointing to see that when another 
company added data to Ms Ls file based on that other persons details, it took several more 
months for Equifax to raise a dispute, and further months before that was sorted out too. 
Further, Equifax have accepted that they were too slow in responding to Ms L, and I agree.
So while I think large parts of the matter were not Equifaxs fault, I also think they could have 
taken a more active role and helped get this issue sorted out much earlier  which could 
have really mitigated all the trouble and upset Ms L went through over the many months this 
went on. While Equifax have given Ms L an apology, I think compensation is a better way to 
put things right and acknowledge the impact of what happened.
Ive also considered Ms Ls request to have her membership fees removed. It looks like, as 
she said, she only signed up in order to help her deal with all the incorrect information 
showing up on her Equifax file, and she cancelled her membership after it got sorted out. 
And I cant see that the free alternatives were clearly highlighted in the correspondence Ive 
been given. So in her situation, it seems like a reasonable request to get those fees back, 
and a fair way to draw a line under what seems to have been a lengthy and stressful matter.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
9 February 2022. Equifax didnt add anything further. Ms L made some further comments, 
which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L raised some new concerns about some consumer enquiry soft searches on her credit 
file. This is a new issue that was not part of her original complaint, so strictly speaking I cant 
address that here. But I will note that from the limited screenshots Ms L has sent, those 
appear to be entries denoting when Ms L looked up her credit file herself, or ordered an 
updated version of her file, and so on.They dont appear to be applications for credit  the company is listed as Equifax (as 
opposed to e.g. Loan Company X for a loan application) and the search type as Consumer 
Enquiry (i.e. an enquiry from Ms L, as opposed to e.g. Credit Quotation or ID check for 
Money Laundering Regs for a credit application). Id also clarify that soft searches are only 
visible to Ms L and wont affect her credit applications or otherwise harm her. So on the face 
of it, they dont seem to be something to worry about, they just look like records of when 
Ms L checked her own file. But if Ms L would like to look into that in more detail, she should 
get back in touch with Equifax in the first instance. Then if shes not happy with their 
response, she can raise that new issue with us as a separate case.
I will also clarify that for future, Ms L can monitor her credit file for free either by asking 
Equifax for a copy of her statutory credit report, or by signing up to free monitoring services 
such as ClearScore.
Ms L also explained she was very worried that the person she got mixed up with could have 
accessed her bank account. I do understand her concern, but I hope I can reassure her that 
her credit file and bank account are two quite separate things. Her bank will have their own 
separate security measures, such as a chip and PIN for her card, online banking security, a 
fraud department, and so on. The person she got mixed up with would have no more access 
to Ms Ls account than Ms L has access to theirs. Id also note that we only award 
compensation for things which did happen, rather than for things which could have 
happened, but did not. And Id reiterate that Equifax were not primarily responsible for what 
went wrong here.
I also appreciate Ms L would like reassurance that nothing like this would ever happen 
again. I cannot guarantee that no bank will ever mix things up for her again. Banks are 
staffed by people, people do make mistakes from time to time, and no system is always 
perfect. But this particular issue has been resolved, its now been noted that Ms L and this 
other person are certainly not the same, it is generally rare for things like this to happen, and 
if Ms L needs our help in future she can always get in touch. 
Lastly, Ms L suggested some regulatory changes. Ive taken her comments on board, but 
were not the regulator  thats the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA for short). Were here 
to look at individual complaints, and we cant change the way the industry works across the 
board. But Ms L can always pass her comments to the FCA. And we also give them our 
complaints data to help them regulate the industry.
Aside from those points, neither side provided any new evidence or arguments. So having 
reviewed the case again, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for broadly the 
same reasons as set out in my provisional decision above. 
Putting things right
I direct Equifax Limited to:
Refund the subscription fees involved, which I understand to total £206.55; and-
Pay Ms L an additional £100 compensation.My final decision
I uphold Ms Ls complaint, and direct Equifax Limited to put things right in the way I set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman