DRN-2519708
The complaint
Mr B complains that replacement windows that he had fitted were not of satisfactory quality. 
Because they were financed through a credit agreement he made with Omni Capital Retail 
Finance Limited, Mr B says it should put right the defects or otherwise compensate him. 
What happened
In October 2018 Mr B took out a £4,600 loan with Omni Capital. The credit agreement 
recorded that the loan had been set up by Improveasy Ltd and that it was to be used to 
finance the purchase of windows. 
Mr B was unhappy with the windows. He says he experienced condensation, leaks and 
draughts. The company that installed the windows, ETC&F Ltd (which traded as Ecoseal), 
ceased trading in or around April 2019. Mr B therefore approached Omni Capital, as the 
provider of the finance, for a resolution. 
Omni Capital said however that it was not responsible for the windows or their installation. It 
had no direct relationship with the company that supplied and installed the windows. Its 
relationships were with Improveasy and with Mr B. It had paid the loan to Improveasy, which 
in turn had paid Ecoseal. Mr Bs contract for the windows had been with Ecoseal. 
Mr B did not accept that and referred the case to this service, where one of our investigators 
considered it. He reached the same conclusion as Omni Capital had done, and for the same 
reasons. Mr B did not accept the investigators view, however, and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Subject to certain conditions, the effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is 
that, where a contract for the supply of goods and/or services is financed by arrangements 
between the supplier and the lender, the borrower can bring a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against the lender, as well as the supplier. 
Mr B says that the windows he bought were not satisfactory or were not fitted properly, or a 
combination of both. That is, he says that Ecoseal was in breach of its contract with him. 
Because Omni Capital financed the windows with a loan, it is, he says, liable for Ecoseals 
breach. 
It may well be that the windows were defective or were not installed with proper care and 
skill. However, even if that is the case, I dont believe that Omni Capital has any liability to Mr 
B for that. The loan agreement records that Improveasy was the credit intermediary. I accept 
that Omni Capital paid that company. 
Mr B has provided copies of correspondence with Ecoseal. Its clear from that 
correspondence that Mr Bs contract for the supply and installation of his windows was with 
that company. The correspondence includes, for example, a contract number. The company 
which Mr B says breached its contract with him is, therefore, Ecoseal. 
Omni Capital is liable for a breach on the part of Ecoseal if Mr Bs contract with Ecoseal was 
financed under arrangements between it and Omni Capital. I do not believe there were any 
such arrangements, however. Omni Capital had arrangements with Improveasy, which was 
named on the loan agreement as credit intermediary and which, Omni Capital said, received 
the loan money to pay Ecoseal. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 can also apply if the contract is financed under 
arrangements between the lender and an associate of the supplier  section 187 of the Act. 
I have considered therefore whether Ecoseal and Improveasy are associates. Section 184 
sets out the circumstances in which a company is an associate of another company; broadly 
speaking, that will be the case if the same person or people control each company. Having 
checked the available information about the directors of each company at the time, I am 
satisfied that Ecoseal and Improveasy were not associates of each other. 
For these reasons, I dont believe that the parties involved in this case had the necessary 
relationships with each other to give Mr B the protection of section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. It follows that Omni Credit is not liable for any problems there may be with 
the windows or their installation.                  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman