DRN-2415024
The complaint
Mr S is complaining on behalf of the estate of Mrs S about an annuity that was taken out 
through St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) to pay for the late Mrs S care 
home costs. Hes unhappy with the amount that was refunded to the estate after Mrs S sadly 
passed away. 
What happened
Mr S sought advice from SJP in 2018 and 2019 to discuss options for covering the cost of 
care for the late Mrs S. At the time Mrs S was 91 and lived in a care home. It was recorded 
that she had around £310,000 in assets and a deficit in income each month of around 
£2,900 due to her care home fees.
SJP recommended an Immediate Needs Annuity (INA), Mr S accepted the recommendation 
and the INA commenced in June 2019. Unfortunately, Mrs S passed away in October 2019. 
The INA contained a capital guarantee for the first six months and as it was only in place for 
five months, the estate of Mrs S received a refund of the cost of the initial premium.
Mr S complained to SJP as he was under the impression that 25% of the premium would be 
returned to the estate. SJP didnt uphold the complaint. They believed theyd acted in good 
faith and had made a recommendation that met the late Mrs S requirements.
They also said the necessary risks were outlined in the suitability letter they had provided at 
the time of the sale and explained that while 25% of the premium would be returned to the 
estate, there was a deduction of any amounts already paid to the care home. 
Mr S didnt accept their findings and brought the complaint to this service and said, in 
summary:
He wasnt made adequately aware that the return of any premium would be subject 
to deductions.
The documents he received from SJP were dishonest and misleading in that the 
actual amounts paid are hidden behind an asterisk, and the extent of the deductions 
were not even on the same page.
It is generally considered poor practice to use asterisks to hide details that materially 
alter a quoted figure.
He questioned the legality of making these deductions since they to all intents and 
purposes repudiate the contract. In such an event the estate should be able to 
recoup 100% of the premium paid, not 25%.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt uphold the complaint. 
The investigator thought, in summary:
The suitability letter Mr S received confirmed that capital protection had been 
discussed in great detail. It contained a basic table which said that 25% of the 
premium would be returned to the estate if Mrs S passed away in months four, five 
and six after the INA was taken out.
She appreciated what Mr S said about the table but thought that the use of an 
asterisk wasnt unreasonable, not least because the information the asterisk referred 
to was referenced on the page after the table. 
There was evidence which showed that SJP had pointed out on more than one 
occasion that any income paid to the care provider would be deducted from the 
amount to be refunded.
She thought the policy documents clearly pointed out the terms in which the cover 
was agreed. SJP had asked Mr S to read this document carefully and at his own 
pace, so she was satisfied he was given ample time to read and understand the 
information held within the report.
She was satisfied the policy documentation supplied clearly set out the nature of the 
plan and explained how it worked. 
She noted that that Mr S had alluded to a breach of contract - which shed 
considered, but wasnt convinced that had a material difference to the outcome of the 
complaint. She thought that in light of the informal nature of our service, any 
assertions about the legality of these types of policies would instead fall into the remit 
of the regulator, and/or should be pursued through legal proceedings.
She was saddened to hear about the passing of the late Mrs S and the financial 
position Mr S found himself in. But the INA was designed to provide peace of mind, 
and had the circumstances been different, she did not doubt that it wouldve 
continued to provide the level of cover required over the years. As such, she couldnt 
safely conclude that SJP had done anything wrong. 
Mr S didnt agree with her findings so the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold this complaint and for broadly the same reasons as 
the investigator. I want to firstly offer my condolences to Mr S for the loss of his mother. And 
Id like to assure him that I didnt take this decision lightly. I understand the last couple of 
years must have been difficult for him and I dont want to add to his distress. But as Ill go on 
to explain, I dont think SJP have acted unfairly.
Ive looked at and considered all the evidence both parties have provided  and Id like to 
assure Mr S that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent considered it, 
but Ive focused instead on whats important to the outcome.
At the heart of this complaint is whether or not the fact that deductions would be made from 
any refund was made clear at the time of the sale. The relevant guidelines which apply 
broadly say that a firm must communicate information to their clients in a way which is clear, 
fair and not misleading. Also, any significant or unusual terms should be brought to the 
clients attention.Ive listed the documents Ive seen which highlight the possibility that deductions would be 
made:
The suitability letter contained a basic table which gave the amounts to be refunded. 
One of the headings was Amount to be returned to Mrs S estate * .
 Immediately after the table on the following page the asterisk was defined as Any 
income paid to the care provider during this period is deducted from this amount 
The suitability letter also said Mr S had been provided with copies of the illustrations 
relating to the purchase of the Immediate Needs Annuity and the Key Features 
Document. The letter explained that these documents were important and he needed 
to ensure he read them carefully. 
The Key Features Document contained a section on the Money Back Guarantee 
which explained that any payments to the care provider would be deducted and also 
contained an example showing how the calculations would work in practice.
The Long Term Care Fee Options Report also explained that there would be a 
deduction of any fees paid to the care home. On page six it said All Care Plans 
include some form of basic short term capital protection. The provider in this case 
provides the following: 
This was followed by a simple table with two headings, one the headings was Level 
of Capital returned to Estate *  This was immediately followed on the same page by  
* Any income paid to the care provider in the interim is deducted from this amount.
Section four of the Policy Schedule gave more detail about the money back 
guarantee  part A stated that If the Annuitant dies within the first six months of the 
Policy a percentage (defined below) of the premium paid will be returned less any 
annuity payments already made under this Policy by the Company
Having reviewed the information that was provided at the time of the sale, I think it was clear, 
fair and not misleading. There were a number of documents which highlighted the fact that 
any payments to the care home provider would be deducted from any potential refund. I 
think this point was set out in relatively straightforward language, in line with what I would 
expect to see. So, I think that Mr S ought to have been aware of how any potential refund 
would be calculated. 
Despite what Mr S has said about the use of asterisks, I think they drew reasonable attention 
to the fact that there was further information that applied to the tables showing the refund 
calculations. The definition was directly below one table and in the other it was on the first 
line of the following page. So it wasnt the case that the definitions were noted far away from 
where the table was or were difficult to find. 
So, I think there was sufficient detail to put the estate of the late Mrs S on notice of a 
potential issue. Ultimately, I consider that the documentation provided at the time of the sale 
was generally in line with the regulators principles and was enough to allow Mr S to make 
an informed decision. 
Ive also considered what Mr S has said about the legality of the deductions and the effect of 
them possibly repudiating the contract. It is not my role to make findings on legality, but 
rather on what is fair and reasonable. The estate of the late Mrs S agreed to the terms of the 
INA when it was taken out. I think the information about the deductions was made clear to 
them and they still chose to proceed despite this.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr S was hoping for. But having carefully 
considered this complaint I cant reasonably say that SJP have acted incorrectly in this 
matter, nor do I think they have acted unfairly.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman