DRN-2696379
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs G are unhappy with the way Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) handled their 
claim following an escape of water which damaged their kitchen.
Mr S and Mrs G had buildings and contents insurance with Soteria. The policy was in joint 
names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mrs G throughout my decision.
What happened
While away from home, Mrs Gs kitchen was damaged by a leak under her kitchen floor, 
leaving her home uninhabitable. The circumstances are well known to both parties, so I 
wont repeat them in detail here. Briefly, Soteria settled the claim but Mrs G was unhappy 
that it:
failed to return one of her calls on time;
caused confusion about how the claim would be settled (cash or replacement);
gave conflicting information about the alternative accommodation (AA);
didnt pay adequate disturbance allowance (for food), and
deducted the £250 excess twice.
Soteria accepted that it hadnt returned the call and that thered been some confusion 
around the AA and settlement method, both of which were cleared up when Mrs G 
complained. Soteria paid £50 compensation in recognition of its mistakes. However, it said 
the claim was handled in line with the terms of the policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the compensation was enough for 
the mistakes made and he thought that Soteria had explained its actions fairly, in line with 
the policy.
Mrs G didnt agree. She didnt think Soteria was being held to account for the time taken to 
replace her kitchen and its lack of communication.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mrs G will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint for 
broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
Communication
Soteria paid Mrs G £50 compensation after she complained about the time taken to return 
her call; the confusion she felt about how the claim would be settled, and the conflicting 
advice she received about the AA. Mrs G remains disappointed, so Ive looked at how 
Soteria responded when she raised these complaints with it.
Soteria investigated Miss Gs complaint and it apologised for not calling her back sooner 
than it did. It hasnt disputed its delay and I think a prompt apology is a reasonable response 
to a complaint of that nature. Soteria also accepted that itd caused confusion about whether 
kitchen repairs would be carried out and whether the AA would be extended. Having looked 
at the correspondence between Soteria and Mrs G, Im satisfied that it addressed her 
concerns and clarified the position for both the repairs and AA. Soteria explained that the AA 
was only available while the insurance-related work made her home uninhabitable. Mrs G 
was having additional work done at the same time, and Soteria confirmed that it wouldnt pay 
to extend the AA just for the private work. 
In respect of the kitchen repairs, Soteria agreed that its email to Mrs G was unclear. But, 
while initially confusing, I think Soteria corrected its mistake and reassured Mrs G about how 
it would handle her claim. 
I can understand that Mrs G wouldve been upset by the confusion, especially at such a 
difficult time, but the evidence shows me that Soteria put that right. It paid £50 compensation 
for the mistakes it made, and I think thats fair given the relatively brief nature of these 
complaints, its prompt response, and the fact that it didnt impact progress of the claim. I 
wont be asking Soteria to pay any more in respect of these three issues of complaint.     
Food allowance
Mrs G doesnt think Soteria paid adequate disturbance allowance (DA) to cover the cost of 
her food while staying firstly in a hotel, and then a rental apartment. Soteria confirmed it 
didnt pay for breakfast at the hotel for a brief period, in error. It seems that was a 
misunderstanding because it thought breakfast was included in the overall accommodation 
cost. Soteria reimbursed Mrs G so Im satisfied that it put matters right, here.
I understand Mrs G thinks Soteria shouldve continued to pay DA after she moved from the 
hotel to the apartment. I think its worth explaining that DA is a contribution the insurer 
makes towards additional costs when a policyholder doesnt have cooking or washing 
facilities during repairs. Here, Mrs G stayed in a hotel without private cooking facilities, so 
Soteria provided a fixed contribution towards the cost of food over and above what shed 
normally pay. I think thats fair and in line with accepted industry practice.
Once Mrs G moved into an apartment, she had access to cooking facilities so Soteria 
stopped paying DA. I think thats fair because Mrs G wouldve been able to prepare food in 
the same way she would at home, so there wouldve been no need to incur additional costs. 
Simply experiencing the inconvenience of being away from home doesnt warrant payment 
of a DA.
The evidence shows that Soteria asked Mrs G for receipts to demonstrate her additional 
costs were more than the DA when she complained about the amount. Soteria was already 
paying a fixed sum in line with industry practice without requiring evidence of additional 
costs. So, I think it was reasonable for it to request receipts to support Mrs Gs claim that her 
expenses exceeded the amount already paid. Without that evidence, I see no reason why 
Soteria should pay any more. 
In summary, Im satisfied that Soteria paid Mrs G fairly and in line with industry practice for 
her additional food costs.
ExcessAlthough Mrs G feels she made one claim and should only incur one excess, the damage 
affected both contents and buildings. Her policy had an excess of £250 for escape of water 
under each area of cover. The policy schedule says:
What is not insured?
Excess  The amount youll have to pay towards a claim. 
The amount will vary depending on the type of claim. Please refer to your Policy Details 
document for the excesses that apply to your cover. If you claim under more than one cover 
option youll have to pay a separate excess under each cover option.
Soteria deducted two lots of excess, totalling £500, but Mrs G thinks she shouldve only paid 
one excess. As can be seen above, the excess applies to each type of cover (contents and 
buildings), and the information is given clearly and prominently on the policy schedule. I 
understand that Mrs G might be frustrated with that because, to her, its one claim. But the 
policy covers the item of the claim under the relevant part  for example, appliances fall 
within contents and the kitchen floor repairs fall within buildings  so Soteria was entitled to 
pay the claim less the excess for each part of the claim. Im satisfied that Soteria applied the 
excess in line with the policy, so I see no reason to ask it to take any action here.
Overall, its clear that there were communication shortfalls during the claim, and delays 
replacing the kitchen. However, in respect of the communication, Soteria put matters right at 
the time, and I havent seen any evidence that Soteria caused any avoidable delays 
replacing the kitchen. Im satisfied the compensation is fair by way of apology for the 
communication issues, and that Soteria applied the DA and excess in line with the policy and 
accepted industry practice. Therefore, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman