DRN-2604593
The complaint
Mr M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) have settled his motor insurance 
claim unfairly.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Given that Mr Ms vehicle was deemed a total loss after the accident, the policy 
entitled him to the market value of the vehicle immediately before the loss, defined 
as the cost of replacing the car with one of a similar type, mileage and condition, 
immediately before the loss or damage happened.
Ageas have calculated the vehicles market value by using industry standard motor 
trade guides  which is standard practice within the insurance industry  and is 
widely considered to be a fair, reasonable and objective measure on which an insurer 
can base their settlement. In this instance, Ageas have offered £2,327 which is 
above the average value of around £2,290 based on indicative prices across the 
different motor trade guides. I acknowledge that Mr M may have had repairs recently 
carried out on the vehicle, but this is not something that would make a difference to 
its market value. So Ageas would not be expected to offer anything more than this. 
I appreciate that Mr M may have found advertisements that show his model of 
vehicle being sold for a higher amount. But an advertisement is not necessarily 
indicative of his particular vehicles market value immediately before the accident, 
and merely shows the asking price the seller is looking for, which could in many 
instances be higher than the vehicles actual market value. And I note that the 
advertisements provided by Mr M show either newer vehicles or those that have a 
significant difference in mileage to his at the time of the accident. So I dont consider 
this to be a like for like comparison in any case. 
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, but in the circumstances,  I do not 
consider that Ageas have settled his claim unfairly, so I will not be directing them to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman