DRN-3669522
The complaint
Mr H complained to St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) about advice it 
provided when he tried to access tax free cash (TFC) from his pension. 
What happened
In February 2021 Mr H spoke with an adviser from SJP as he wanted to take the TFC from 
his SJP Retirement Account. The adviser completed a fact find, which recorded the 
following: 
Mr H was age 66, married and had not been working since April 2020. So he had no income. 
His wife was also not working having been made redundant but she received £300 per 
month universal credit, this had recently been reduced from £500. 
Mr H owned his house jointly with his wife but they had an outstanding mortgage. He had 
£4000 in his bank account and he had a car collection worth £10,000. The income and 
expenditure noted that Mr H had monthly outgoings of £2,162.75. 
In terms of Mr Hs retirement planning the fact find recorded that he held a SJP Retirement 
Account. 
Mr H spoke with the adviser again in May 2021. During this call he explained that he had an 
urgent need for his TFC as he had been unemployed since April 2020 and had an immediate 
need to generate an income from his pension. And he had therefore decided to retire and 
start taking his state pension. 
The suitability report, which was issued in May 2021, set out Mr Hs circumstances and said 
that drawdown had been discussed. However, as Mr H didnt have any other investments he 
could rely on, this was not a suitable option for him.  As such, the advisers recommendation 
was that Mr H take his TFC and use the remainder of his fund to buy an annuity, which 
would provide him with an income for life. The adviser set out a number of annuity options 
for Mr H to consider. 
Mr H didnt accept the advisers recommendation because he wanted to take his TFC and 
move the remainder of his funds to a drawdown plan. The adviser advised Mr H that if he 
wanted to proceed with drawdown, he would need to contact another firm to arrange this as 
it wouldnt be possible through SJP. 
In early June 2021, SJP received a letter from a third party financial adviser, requesting 
information on Mr Hs SJP Retirement Account. However, Mr H hadnt signed the enclosed 
letter of authority, so SJP was unable to provide any information to the new firm. 
Around the same time the letter was received, Mr H called SJPs contact centre. He said 
hed been in contact with his SJP adviser about taking his TFC and moving his remaining 
funds to drawdown but when he received the paperwork, the adviser had suggested an 
annuity. Mr H explained that he had since spoken to the adviser who had said drawdown 
wasnt possible because of an FCA rule which only allowed drawdown if the investor had 
more than £30,000 in their bank account. Mr H said that he had called the FCA and it had 
told him it wasnt aware of any such rule and it had suggested he contact SJP to verify this. 
The call handler at SJP said that he also wasnt aware of this rule. Mr H confirmed that he 
still wanted to take his TFC and the call handler said that he would go ahead and arrange 
this for him. However, I understand that SJP has since said that this wouldnt be possible as  
drawdown wasnt appropriate for Mr H. Ultimately Mr H transferred his plan to another 
provider as SJP would not allow him to go into drawdown. 
Mr H complained to SJP. He made two complaints, one about the service he had received 
from the contact centre and one about SJPs recommendation and it not allowing him to 
move his fund into drawdown. 
In terms of the complaint about the suitability of advice provided by SJP, a final response 
letter was emailed to Mr H on 23 September 2021. SJP rejected the complaint because the 
adviser had explained why Mr H was unable to move his funds to a drawdown plan at that 
time. SJP acknowledge that another firm has been in contact to request information about 
Mr Hs plan so it assumed that he would be transferring the plan elsewhere so he could 
access his benefits via drawdown. SJP offered Mr H £250 for the delay in responding to his 
complaint. 
Mr H responded to SJP. He said the reason he was told he could not have his pension was 
because he didnt have £30,000 in his bank account. Mr H also explained he had needed his 
TFC so he could buy an automatic car for his wife. Hed now taken a loan out and intended 
to take the complaint further and claim interest and charges for the loan along with a 
payment for the stress and inconvenience caused.  
Mr H didnt accept SJPs response so the matter was referred to our service for 
consideration. 
One of our investigators reviewed matters. The first thing the investigator did was ask Mr H 
for clarification of his complaint. The investigator noted that Mr H had two complaints with 
SJP, the first one was about Mr Hs request for drawdown and the advice he received in 
relation to this. The second (SJP complaint ref beginning with SJR) was about Mr Hs 
experience with SJPs Contact Centre. 
In his email to this service dated 30 June 2022, Mr H confirmed that it was the main 
complaint (beginning with RSP) that he wanted the Financial Ombudsman Service to 
consider. The investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt think the advice given to Mr H was 
unsuitable. She said that she hadnt seen that Mr H had been told he had to have £30,000 in 
the bank in order to move to drawdown. But she appreciated there had been discussion 
around Mr Hs assets as part of an assessment of his capacity for loss and that eligibility 
rules for the SJP drawdown plan may have been mentioned. However, the investigator said 
that even if the adviser had said Mr H needed to have a certain amount in his bank account, 
she thought SJP had a reasonable basis for not offering Mr H the drawdown option. 
Mr H disagreed. He was amazed the investigator had condoned SJPs actions. He said it 
had deliberately taken longer than 8 weeks to review his complaint and he had suffered a 
loss by being forced to move his pension and by having to take a loan because SJP refused 
to sort the issue out. 
Mr Hs further comments were reviewed but the investigator maintained that the advice given 
to Mr H was suitable. And she said that SJP wasnt obliged to offer Mr H drawdown if it didnt 
think it was appropriate for him. The investigator also noted that SJP had offered Mr H £250 
for the delay in dealing with his complaint which she thought was fair. 
Mr H still disagreed. In summary he said:
The annuity would have paid approximately £203 per month for 10 years with no 
income after that for his wife if he died. He did not think this was good enough as he 
would have no capital to fall back on, and certainly not the £30,000 SJP said he 
needed.
SJP told him that he needed a bank account with a very large amount of cash in it 
before he could put his pension into drawdown. At no time did it say it was not 
possible to do what he wanted due to it being a new contract. He assumes SJP 
would make less profit from drawdown than by selling an annuity.
He lost money by SJP charging fees for him having to move to another provider, fees 
from the new provider, and interest on a loan he was forced to take out, and the 
stress of being passed around SJP from person to person with no outcome from 
anyone. 
SJP ignored the 8 week rule, which he believes it intended to do from the outset as it 
was already put forward in an email that it was a probability. 
He didnt receive the email from SJP with the final response and so hed not been 
offered any compensation. And the person that sent the final response was not who 
he was dealing with. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly Id like to confirm that Im only considering Mr Hs concerns about the advice he 
received from SJPs adviser regarding drawdown not being appropriate for him. Ive not 
considered the service he received from the contact centre as this was dealt with separately 
and Mr H has said that he didnt want us to look into this.
Having reviewed all the available information, I agree with the outcome our investigator 
reached. I think the advice provided was suitable.  Ill explain why. It wasnt possible for Mr H to access his TFC and keep the remaining funds in his SJP 
Retirement Account. As set out in the policy terms and conditions, once he had accessed 
the TFC, he had to use the remainder of the fund to either purchase an annuity or set up a 
new plan that allowed drawdown. 
I know drawdown was Mr Hs preference and that, ideally, he wanted to arrange this through 
SJP. However, SJPs adviser didnt think it was appropriate in Mr Hs circumstances. 
Ive considered Mr Hs circumstances and I dont think SJPs advice was unsuitable. 
It may help if I explain that drawdown isnt actually a product, its a way taking benefits from 
a pension pot.  Mr H couldnt drawdown his benefits from his existing Retirement Account; 
he would have needed to move his benefits into a new product, as set out in the Retirement 
Account terms and conditions. 
Drawdown is often facilitated through a self-invested personal pension (SIPP), where after 
TFC is taken, the remaining funds continue to be invested  so the value can go up as well 
down. And additional charges would apply to new arrangement and for the individual 
investments within the new arrangement. So funds will be eroded if the income drawn and 
charges exceed the growth achieved.  
This means that drawdown isnt suitable for everyone.  And firms often set their own 
guidance for advisers to follow when assessing an individuals suitability for drawdown. SJP 
has confirmed that its own guidance states that drawdown may not be suitable for investors 
with no or minimal investment experience, low assets and no real capacity for loss. And it 
says that in such circumstances essential income needs should be met using guaranteed 
sources of income. 
In the case of Mr H, other than his state pension, it seems he had no other sources of 
guaranteed income in retirement. And he had limited savings and assets. So I dont think it 
was unreasonable for SJP to say that drawdown wasnt appropriate and instead securing a 
guaranteed income was more suitable. 
Mr H says that he was told he had to have £30,000 in his bank account in order for 
drawdown to be approved. Ive not seen any evidence that he was told this. But I accept that 
this may have been Mr Hs understanding of the conversation he had with the adviser.  
I think its likely that the adviser told Mr H that the reason he couldnt recommend a 
drawdown arrangement was because he only had very limited capacity for loss. If the funds 
in his drawdown arrangement didnt perform well, any reduction to his investment would 
have a considerable impact on Mr Hs plan and the amount he would been able to draw from 
the plan. Investors with smaller drawdown plans and no other form of income, often find that 
they run out of money and are left with no income at all in retirement. However, the income 
payment from a lifetime annuity is guaranteed for life and so is paid out until the investor 
dies. For this reason, I dont think SJPs advice to Mr H was unsuitable. 
I know Mr H thinks SJPs decision was based on the profit it could earn as he assumes it 
would have made more from an annuity than a drawdown arrangement. However, I dont 
agree that this was a factor when SJP considered what was suitable advice. And in any 
event, I think its unlikely the annuity would have provided more profit. Once the annuity was 
established, that would have been the end of SJPs involvement with Mr H. However, if hed 
moved to a drawdown arrangement, as Ive said above, there would have been ongoing fees 
and often there is a need for the investments held within a drawdown arrangement to be 
reviewed so this could have led to further fees for on-going advice.   Mr H also says he lost money by SJP charging fees for him having to move to another 
provider, fees from the new provider, and interest on a loan he was forced to take out, and 
the stress of being passed around SJP from person to person with no outcome from anyone. 
However, Im not aware of SJP charging a fee for Mr H transferring. I can see from the 
statement on file that the encashment value of his plan was the same as the current unit 
value (fund value).  And the statement confirms that where this is the case, no early 
withdrawal fees apply. Mr Hs plan was invested in 7 individual funds/assets and the units 
within these individual funds were subject to market conditions, and the value fluctuated 
regularly. So, rather than paying a fee to SJP for transferring his plan, I think its likely that 
his fund value reduced between the value being confirmed and the fund being transferred. 
This isnt something I can hold SJP responsible for, its the way his Retirement Account 
worked. Mr H would have received the value of the units at the point it was transferred. 
And I think its important to explain that even if Mr H had moved to a drawdown arrangement 
through SJP, there would still have been a fee for setting up the new arrangement. So I dont 
think Mr H has lost out by having to pay a new firm to do this for him. 
I know Mr H says that, because of the delay in accessing his TFC, he was forced to take a 
loan to cover the cost of a car he needed urgently for his wife. But Im not asking SJP to 
cover any costs involved here. Im satisfied the advisers advice was suitable. And the 
adviser made Mr H aware in late May/early June 2021 that he would need seek advice from 
another firm if he wanted to pursue the drawdown route. I can see that Mr H started the 
process of doing this in June 2021 but he didnt sign the letter of authority and so SJP were 
unable to provide the new advising firm with information about his plan. SJP advised the new 
firm that the letter of authority wasnt signed but no new instruction was received at that time. 
Ive not considered any delays that may have occurred or the service received after Mr H 
contacted SJPs contact centre. These issues were dealt with separately by another firm 
within the St. James's Place group - St. James's Place UK Plc. Mr H confirmed to our 
investigator that he only wanted us to consider the advice he received and the service in 
relation to that. 
For the reasons explained, I dont think the advice was unsuitable; it wasnt unreasonable for 
the adviser to conclude that drawdown wasnt appropriate for Mr H, given his circumstances 
and limited capacity for loss. And Im satisfied that Mr H was made aware by the adviser 
what he needed to do if he wanted to arrange drawdown through another firm. So Im not 
upholding this part of Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H has concerns about the length of time it took SJP to consider his complaint and issue 
its final response. It should have been issued by 10 September but it was issued just under 2 
weeks later. I can understand why this delay caused Mr H concern. He was waiting to hear if 
the adviser had provided incorrect advice and whether he would be permitted to take his 
TFC and drawdown through SJP. 
SJP offered Mr H £250 for this delay which I think is fair in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
I know Mr H told our investigator he didnt receive SJPs final response and so wasnt aware 
of this offer. But I can see that he did respond to the email SJP sent him which had this letter 
attached.  So Im satisfied it was received although I do appreciate Mr H may have 
overlooked SJPs offer. I think its important for me to recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling about this matter and I 
realise he will be disappointed with my decision. But I think the advice SJP provided was 
suitable and I think its offer of £250 for the delay in issuing the final response is fair. So Im 
not asking to pay Mr H any more than this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint in part. If its not already done so, I think 
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should pay Mr H £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman