DRN-4510095
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains HCC International Insurance Company Plc (HCC), turned
down a claim it made on its public liability insurance policy. G is represented in bringing the
complaint by its director, Mr D.
What happened
G contracted with a company (M) to provide labour services. In January 2020 an accident
took place on a construction site where it was providing services. Sadly that resulted in the
death of a worker and serious injury to another. Mr D says at a meeting with M later that
month he was told it would cover legal costs relating to this. A solicitor was instructed to
represent G at the start of March.
In June 2021 HCC were notified of the accident by solicitors acting for M. It reviewed matters
and told G in November it wouldnt be providing any cover. That was because Gs policy said
it should be notified of any incident that may give rise to a claim under the policy as soon as
reasonably practicable. But in this case it hadnt been told about the accident until around 17
months after it had taken place.
In August 2022 (around six weeks prior to an inquest hearing) G was told M would no longer
be covering its legal costs. Around the same time it received correspondence from solicitors
acting for the deceased worker saying they were instructed to claim damages and asking
whether liability was conceded or denied. G paid for its own representation at the inquest
and asked HCC to reconsider its position on funding for the claim that had been brought
against it. HCC said its position was unchanged.
Our investigator said it was reasonable for G to think its legal fees relating to the incident
would be covered by M as thats what it had been told. Once it became aware funding had
been withdrawn it told HCC about the claim. So he thought G had met the requirement in the
policy to notify HCC as soon as reasonably practicable of any incident that may give rise to a
claim; G didnt know the incident would give rise to a claim on its policy with HCC until the
funding provided by M was withdrawn. He thought the claim should be accepted by HCC
and set out what else he thought it needed to do to put things right.
G agreed with his outcome. HCC didnt. In summary it said:
When considering late notification the question was whether a reasonable person would
have considered that a claim against them was possible. In this case one person had
died and another had been seriously hurt and it was clear Mr D needed legal
representation. And the claim hadnt in fact been notified to it by G; it only became aware
of it following a notification from the solicitors acting for M.
M might have agreed to cover the cost of legal investigations but there was no
commitment made to indemnify G against a civil claim (which hadnt been made at that
time). Even if such a promise had been made there was no guarantee M would have
been able to deliver on it and its insurers hadnt made any undertaking to it.
It didnt think the distinction between cover for legal fees to do with the inquest and
related matters and cover for a civil liability claim was one a layman would have difficulty
understanding. And G must have been aware of the risk of incurring such a liability in
order to decide it needed public liability insurance.
It also thought it had been prejudiced by the late notification. While evidence had been
gathered as part of the inquest this wasnt the same as an insurer having the ability to
undertake its own investigations at the time of the incident. And the purpose of the
inquest was to establish the cause of death and not whether there might be a civil liability
for that death.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say HCC has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Gs policy. That does provide cover against
the insureds liability to pay Damages (including claimants' costs fees and expenses) and
Defence Costs in respect ofaccidental Bodily Injury to any person. But thats subject to
the other terms and conditions of the policy and the one HCC has relied on to turn down the
claim is that relating to notification.
On that the policy says The Insured shall give written notice to [policy administrator] as soon
as reasonably practicable of any incident that may give rise to a claim under this Policy and
shall give all such additional information as [policy administrator] or the Insurer may
require
In this case the accident took place in January 2020. It doesnt appear G contacted HCC
directly about this until 18 November 2022. Prior to that G received a claim from solicitors
acting for the deceased on 9 August 2022. They said please note that your Insurers will
need to see this letter as soon as possible. I understand it was around that time G was told
the funding that had been provided via M would be withdrawn. So there was then a three
month period from when G was aware a claim had been made against it, and funding had
been withdrawn by M, before it contacted HCC. On those facts alone Im not persuaded G
has met the notification requirements set out in its policy.
However, the matter is complicated by the fact HCC was clearly already aware of the
accident because solicitors acting for M contacted it about this in June 2021 (and its
representatives contacted G following that). I accept notification wasnt given by G but as
HCC was nevertheless told about what had happened I think it would be fair to treat that as
the date HCC was given notice of the incident. I dont think theres anything it would have
done differently at that point if the notification had come from G direct.
But thats still 17 months after the accident took place. And the requirement in the policy is
for HCC to be notified as soon as reasonably practicable of any incident that may give rise to
a claim. Taking into account relevant case law, I think its reasonable to say there should be
a real rather than a fanciful risk of a claim being made on the policy. And that a reasonable
insured would have understood there was a real risk of such a claim being made taking into
account their knowledge of what happened.
G says it didnt think the accident would give rise to a claim on its policy with HCC because
its legal costs were being covered through its agreement with M. And there was clearly
contact between those parties after the accident and that resulted in solicitors being
appointed to act for G. It does appear M (possibly through its own insurer) agreed to cover
those costs.But the evidence as to exactly what was said at the time, what costs were to be covered and
for how long is limited. I understand those discussions took place during a meeting which I
havent been provided with any further information about. Correspondence following that
meeting confirms solicitors will be appointed to represent G but doesnt go into further detail
about what thats in relation to and what, if any, other commitments were made in relation to
this.
However, even if I accept M agreed to cover Gs legal costs in relation to the inquest and
other health and safety investigations on an ongoing basis I havent seen anything to show it
was told this cover would extend to cover any future civil liability claims that were made
against it. And I dont think thats something G could reasonably have thought would be the
case; it had after all taken out insurance covering public liability with HCC to provide cover
for claims of this nature
I appreciate that, as G says, it wasnt advised to contact HCC at the time. But I dont think a
reasonable insured should need to have been told that. An accident had taken place which
resulted in the death of one worker and serious injury to another. I accept G didnt think it
was responsible for this and I understand no blame was apportioned to it by the subsequent
inquest. But I think the circumstances of the accident and its consequences would in and of
itself give a reasonable insured grounds to think there was a real (rather than fanciful)
chance of it needing to make a claim under its public liability policy.
So I think HCC is right to say the incident wasnt notified to it in line with the policy terms
after it took place in January 2020. And the policy says the notification requirement is a
condition precedent to the insurers liability to provide cover under the policy. That means
the legal position is HCC doesnt need to show how non-compliance with the condition has
adversely affected (prejudiced) its position to turn down the claim.
But that isnt the only issue I need to consider. I understand the legal position as it applies to
a condition precedent. However, our remit is wider than that and requires me to also take
into account whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I think the question of
whether HCC has been caused prejudice by late notification is relevant when considering
whats fair and reasonable.
HCC has explained what the impact of the late notification has been. And I think its fair to
say it has lost out on the opportunity to undertake its own investigation of what happened at
the time the incident occurred. I appreciate evidence was gathered as part of the inquiry
process for the inquest but that was for a specific purpose which is different to the inquiries
HCC might have undertaken in preparation for the defence of a civil claim.
So while I accept that formal action in relation to that claim wasnt taken against G until after
HCC was aware of the incident I do think its shown that the 17 month delay in it becoming
aware of this prejudiced its position. Taking into account that the notification clause is a
condition precedent I think HCC has acted correctly and fairly in turning down the claim G
made on the basis that condition hadnt been complied with.
Responses to my provisional decision
HCC didnt respond. Mr D (on behalf of G) confirmed hed received the provisional decision 
and was very disappointed by the outcome but didnt have any further evidence to provide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information for me to consider I dont have any 
reason to change the findings I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask G to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
James Park
Ombudsman