DRN-4184638
The complaint
Mr L complains that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (Scottish Friendly) poorly 
handled the transfer of his pensions, causing him a delay in the income payments he wanted 
to take.
What happened
Mr L had a pension policy with Scottish Friendly and in late 2021 he started the process to 
take the benefits from this policy.
Mr L Instructed a financial adviser  Firm R  to provide him with a recommendation. Which 
led Mr L to decide to take an open market option (OMO) annuity from a different provider  
Firm C.
Mr L started the process to transfer his pension fund from Scottish Friendly to Firm C in 
order to start his annuity in 2021. With Scottish Friendly receiving a claim pack from Firm R, 
for Mr L, in early November 2021. This application didnt get processed.
In December 2021 a further application was sent to Firm C by Firm R requesting the OMO 
annuity be set up. And Firm C sent a request to Scottish Friendly for it to pay Mr L his 25% 
tax free cash and then send it the residual fund for it to set up the OMO annuity.
Scottish Friendly explain it received this from Firm C on 23 December 2021. But that it still 
needed the Pension Access Options Form completed. And a copy of a bank statement. It 
says it wrote to Mr L on 24 December 2021 explaining this. 
By January 2022, Mr L complained to Scottish Friendly about the delay in processing his 
OMO request, causing him to miss annuity payments.
By early March 2022 Scottish Friendly transferred the whole of Mr Ls pension to Firm C. 
Meaning Firm C couldnt set up an OMO annuity. Instead Mr L had to complete a further 
annuity application so that Firm C could pay the tax free lump sum instead and then start 
paying Mr L his annuity. Mr L received his first annuity from this pension in April 2022.
Scottish Friendly responded to Mr Ls complaint on 26 April 2022. It upheld Mr Ls complaint. 
It didnt think that it received all of the information that it needed for this pension transfer until 
27 January 2022. So should have processed that in line with its standard timescales of 10 
working days. Which would have been by 10 February 2022. To apologise for the 
inconvenience caused it sent Mr L a cheque for £100.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with Scottish Friendlys answer and referred his complaint to us. It was 
looked at by our investigator who was ultimately of the opinion that Scottish Friendlys delay 
in transferring the pension to Firm C meant that Mr L was roughly a month late in receiving 
his annuity payment. She thought that a fair way to put things right would be for Scottish 
Friendly to pay Mr L an annuity payment for March 2022. Which Scottish Friendly agreed to 
do.
Mr L didnt accept our investigators opinion and this matter has been referred for an 
ombudsmans decision. As I came to a slightly different opinion, I issued both parties a 
provisional decision to allow them to respond with any further evidence or comment.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is a service intended to resolve disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers with a minimum formality. While Ive taken into account all submissions, I've 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
At the moment I'm partially upholding Mr Ls complaint. I'll explain why.
I can see that Mr L first sent his request to take an OMO annuity in November 2021. But 
Scottish Friendly explain that was missing information. And I agree that it was. The cover 
letter that Firm R sent with it explained what Mr L wanted to do. But the options that were 
selected on the application form differed. And I think that the checklist for the form made it 
clear that Scottish Friendly required a bank statement. And I dont think Mr L provided one.
Ive seen an email that Firm R sent Mr L on 1 November 2021 to say that it arranged to send 
the fully certified documents but pointed out that Scottish Friendly might still want to see a 
bank statement. And Ive seen that on the checklist for the application pack, instead of 
ticking the box for including a bank statement, is a handwritten note. It said Really!! How 
about the bank a/c details they hold for paying the monthly premium. So I think that Mr L 
understood that Scottish Friendly required a bank statement. And that he chose not to 
provide it.
He has since argued that Scottish Friendly shouldnt have required a bank statement. And 
that one wasnt required on a similar transfer with a different provider. Nonetheless, I dont 
think it was an unreasonable thing for Scottish Friendly to have asked for. And was 
something that Mr L ought to have been able to provide. Which means I dont think Scottish 
Friendly are at fault that the pension wasnt progressed by the November 2021 application.
I can see that Mr L provided Firm R with a bank statement and what appears to be most of 
what was required in December 2021. Firm R has shown us that it sent this information to 
Firm C in an application pack. And Firm C have explained that on 21 December 2021 it sent 
the transfer request to Scottish Friendly.
Scottish Friendly have shown us what it received from Firm C. It is dated as 21 December 
2021 and date stamped as being received by Scottish Friendly on 23 December. The pack 
still does not include a bank statement. Scottish Friendly said that it wrote to Mr L on 
24 December 2021 to explain that it still needed the bank statement and that it required Mr L 
to complete the annuity section of the pension access form. 
I think that Scottish Friendly were likely to be mistaken about the section of the form it 
required. I say this because it seemed to genuinely misunderstand Mr Ls request. It seemed 
to be mistaken over the fact that it had an arrangement with Firm C to provide annuities. So 
didnt agree that Mr L needed an OMO. There were internal communications trying to 
understand how to process Mr Ls request for an annuity. But, regardless of that, it couldnt 
progress with the transfer at that point as it still didnt have a copy of Mr Ls bank statement. 
And it sought to put that right promptly by its letter. 
Mr L explains that he didnt receive that letter from Scottish Friendly. But having seen it. And 
considered the context of the events, I think that its more likely than not that it was sent. Unfortunately though, as Mr L didnt receive this, there was a delay before a further attempt 
was made to request the transfer of funds to Firm C. But I dont think I can fairly hold 
Scottish Friendly responsible for this delay as it still didnt have the bank statement that it 
had always been clear about requiring.
There was a further application from Firm C to Scottish Friendly to transfer Mr Ls pension 
funds. Firm C sent that on 24 January 2022. And it was received by Scottish Friendly on 27 
January 2022. This contained all the information that Scottish Friendly needed. And it ought 
to have been progressed in line with its service standards. But it wasnt. Scottish Friendly 
have admitted this. Quite simply, it should have completed the request for the OMO by 10 
February 2022 and it didnt. 
There is a further issue though that Scottish Friendly have never properly addressed. Which 
is that Mr L consistently requested payment of 25% tax-free cash and an OMO transfer for 
the remainder of the funds. And the Firm C request was in line with this. For some reason 
though, Scottish Friendly didnt comply with this request. Instead it did a full transfer.
The impact of this was to cause Mr L yet further inconvenience. Mr L was delayed in 
receiving his tax free cash lump sum, and a further delay before his annuity could be paid. 
Mr L needed a new application for Firm C to set up an annuity as his application form had 
been for an OMO. Whilst he was still able to receive a comparable annuity, it undoubtedly 
caused further frustration and upset in what had already become a drawn out process.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr L didnt agree with my provisional decision. He sent a number of emails and set out his 
thoughts on this matter in some length. In summary, he still thought that Scottish Friendly 
would have had his bank statement sooner. Mr L reiterated what he thought the timescale 
was in his providing the statement to Firm R. Mr L reiterated his position that he never 
received the letter that Scottish Friendly sent him on 24 December 2021. And ultimately he 
did not accept Scottish Friendly didnt have everything it needed earlier. 
Regarding my suggested means of putting things right, Mr L commented that he wouldnt 
pay tax on his missed annuity payment so any compensation should not have a tax 
deduction. And offered to provide a copy of his P60 to support that position.
Scottish Friendly acknowledged my provisional decision, but had no further evidence or 
comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything in this case, Im not persuaded to change my opinion. I 
understand that Mr L disagrees with the conclusion that Ive reached. But Ive based my 
finding on the evidence that Ive been presented with. In considering this complaint, Ive 
limited my consideration to whether Scottish Friendly have done anything wrong. And if so 
the extent of that.
This case has hinged on when I think I could reasonably conclude that Scottish Friendly had 
everything they required to transfer the pension fund. Key evidence here came from Scottish 
Friendly and Firm C. Based on that, I have concluded, on a balance of probability, that Scottish Friendly hadnt received the bank statement it had sought. I am not disputing that 
Mr L ultimately provided it to his adviser. And the evidence suggests that was likely 
forwarded to Firm C. But I cannot see evidence that it was sent to Scottish Friendly. 
Weighing everything up, my decision is that Scottish Friendly have let Mr L down in a 
number of ways. It didnt process his transfer as promptly as its own service level 
agreements say it should have. And then processed it in a different way than was requested. 
It caused Mr L delay in getting his tax free lump sum. And I think that, it most likely means he 
missed a months annuity income.
Putting things right
It is highly likely that the annuity would have been in place for payment in March 
2022 if Scottish Friendly had completed the OMO request in time. So I agree with 
Scottish Friendlys offer to pay a missed annuity payment for 13 March 2022 in the 
manner it has agreed. For the avoidance of doubt, Scottish Friendly had agreed to 
pay Marchs annuity payment in full without making a notional allowance for tax. And 
given Mr Ls explanation that he would have been below the tax threshold I think that 
is the fairest way to treat that notional annuity payment.
Scottish Friendly should pay Mr L 8% simple interest on that missed annuity payment 
from 13 March 2022 until the date it is informed that Mr L accepts my final decision. 
Scottish Friendly should have processed Mr Ls request in the manner he asked it to. 
Which meant it should have paid him his 25% pension commencement lump sum 
(PCLS) within its timescales too. So by 10 February 2022. He didnt receive that sum 
until it was paid to him by Firm C later. So Scottish Friendly should compensate him 
for his loss of use of that sum by paying Mr L 8% interest on his PCLS from 10 
February 2022 until the date he received it from Firm C.
Scottish Friendly offered to pay him £100 for the distress and inconvenience its 
mistake caused. But I dont think that took into account its mistake in processing his 
annuity request in the wrong way. I think that fairer compensation would be £300 in 
total for the distress and inconvenience that Scottish Friendlys mistakes caused 
Mr L. If it has already paid Mr L the £100 it offered then it should pay him a further 
£200.
Scottish Friendly must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr L accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
 If Scottish Friendly deducts tax from this interest payment, it must tell Mr L how much tax 
its taken off and provide him with a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so that he 
can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited to 
compensate him in the manner Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman