DRN-1742372
The complaint
Miss D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) failed properly to investigate the 
claim she made under her Aviva motor insurance policy after a collision between her car and 
a third party vehicle.
What happened
In January 2019, Miss D left her house at 6.45 pm to drive to work. It was dark and raining. 
She walked to her car which was parked on her street and got in. She says she checked 
nothing was coming, signalled, and set off down the street, which was one way. Seconds 
later her car was hit from behind by a third party vehicle (TPV), spun round, and pushed into 
a second parked car. 
The TPV was also insured by Aviva. The TPV driver told Aviva he was correctly proceeding 
along the one way street when Miss D pulled out from a parked position in front of him. The 
police attended, but dont seem to have made any report or taken any action. The TPV driver 
held Miss D 100% responsible for the accident.
Miss D said she had pulled out and was correctly proceeding before the collision. She 
thought the TPV driver had been going too fast for the conditions at the time. 
Aviva investigated the circumstances of the collision. There were no witnesses. Aviva had 
some difficulty in contacting Miss D, and some of what she told it seemed to be 
contradictory. Aviva decided that what was most likely to have happened was that Miss D 
had failed to see the approaching TPV before pulling out into its path, and so would most 
likely be found 100% liable if the dispute proceeded to court. 
Aviva paid the claims made by the TPV driver and the owner of the second parked car. The 
damage to Miss Ds car was such that it was a total loss. So Aviva settled her claim on this 
basis in accordance with her policy. It told Miss D that for future motor insurance purposes 
her claim would be treated as a fault claim, because it had had to pay out money under her 
policy.
Miss D didnt accept this and complained to us. She didnt think Aviva had investigated the 
claim properly. In particular, she said CCTV footage of the accident had been available from 
a nearby camera, but Aviva had failed to secure this footage before it was wiped.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. Miss D had produced a 
hand-written report from someone (the engineer) who described himself as a motor 
engineer and Vehicle and Operator Services Inspector. He said he had inspected the 
damage to Miss Ds car and the site of the accident. Based on his experience, he thought 
the damage to her car was consistent with her description of what had happened. 
The investigator didnt think Aviva had done enough to investigate what had happened. 
There was no evidence of the damage to the TPV, or that it had had the damage inspected 
by any motor engineer. In the absence of any witnesses he didnt think Aviva had given 
sufficient consideration to the issue of liability.
In relation to the CCTV evidence, he couldnt see that Miss D had made Aviva aware of the 
existence of the camera before the evidence was wiped. It also seemed the camera was 
pointing away from the accident and so wouldnt have recorded anything of interest. So he 
didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong in relation to the CCTV.
On the basis of the evidence he had seen, the investigator said he would have understood if, 
on the information available, Aviva had settled on 50/50 liability as between Miss D and the 
TPV driver. He accepted that Aviva encountered some difficulties in speaking to Miss D at 
the outset, and at that stage only had the TPV drivers version of events. But he didnt think 
Aviva had treated Miss D fairly, on the evidence available, in holding her 100% liable.
Miss D responded to say that she accepted the investigators recommendation. She added 
that at the time of the collision she had moved far enough from rest to have changed gear.
Aviva responded to say, in summary, that it hadnt been able to confirm that the engineer 
was a qualified motor engineer, or whether he had inspected the TPV. It asked for this 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So it has been passed to me to issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has explained, it isnt our role to decide how an accident happened, or 
who was responsible for it  only the courts can do that. Motor insurance policies customarily 
give the insurer wide powers to settle claims brought to them. Miss Ds policy said:
We shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any 
claim.
We dont consider that such a power is inherently unfair. However, we will look to see that an 
insurer exercises it fairly and reasonably. In this case, Aviva was insurer of both Miss Ds car 
and the TPV. This made it all the more important that it was careful to examine the 
circumstances fully and carefully so that both policyholders could be satisfied that it was 
treating them fairly.
I think Aviva came to a view at an early stage about what had happened, and this coloured 
its later actions. I think it intended to treat Miss D fairly, and thought it had done so. But from 
what Ive seen, I dont think it did enough to investigate the circumstances of the collision, 
particularly in relation to the third party.
Miss D has produced a written statement of what she says happened, with diagrams. The 
engineer has described the damage he found on her car and why he considered this was 
entirely consistent with Miss Ds statement. 
On the other hand, while its said in the file that the TPV driver said Miss D had pulled out 
into his path, there is no statement from him, and no report from any motor engineer of the 
damage to the TPV, or how this might have been caused. So I dont think it was fair for Aviva 
to treat Miss D as 100% responsible for the accident.
I think its now too late to be able to establish, on the balance of probabilities, whether one or 
other of Miss D and the TPV driver was entirely responsible for the accident, or whether 
each was partly to blame. All in all, on the limited evidence Ive seen, I think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to treat 
Miss D as only 50% responsible for the accident and the damage which resulted. 
I would point out to Miss D that because she will be treated as partly responsible for the 
damage which occurred, and Aviva will have paid some money out on her policy, this will still 
be treated as a fault claim on her insurance record and will affect the future cost of her 
motor insurance.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Aviva should take the action Ive set out in my final decision below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Aviva Insurance Limited to reassess 
the claim on Miss Ds policy arising from her accident so that her liability is limited to 50% of 
the damage claimed under the policy. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to amend all 
insurance records to reflect the split liability of the accident.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman