DRN-3699937
The complaint
Mrs B and the estate of the late Mr B complain that a business, since acquired by Santander 
UK Plc, gave them unsuitable investment advice in 2001.
What happened
In around January 2001, Mr and Mrs B met with Santander to take advice on investing a 
lump sum.
The bank identified the couple were cautious investors. It advised them to invest £7,000 
each into ISAs, with their remaining £44,000 distributed across a joint Save and Invest 
Plan, which comprised of a cash element and a with-profits bond.
Not long after this, in December 2001, Mr B encashed his ISA entirely to pay for a new 
vehicle. The couple made a number of withdrawals from their investment bond in the years 
that followed. What remained of the investments was fully encashed in 2006, yielding a small 
gain.
In 2018, Mrs B and Mr Bs estate complained to Santander via a claims management 
company. They argued, amongst other things, that the investment the bank recommended 
was too risky, and therefore not suitable for them.
Santander responded to say the complaint had been made too late, outside of the time limits 
which apply. As Mrs B didnt accept the banks response, the matter was referred to our 
service.
On 10 August 2022, I decided this complaint was one our service could consider. Both 
parties accepted my decision. Our investigator subsequently gave the opinion that Mrs B 
and Mr Bs estates complaint should be upheld. They felt Santanders advice was likely to 
be unsuitable, as it exposed too much of Mr and Mrs Bs money to the risks of the financial 
markets, mindful that the couple were correctly assessed as being cautious investors. 
Santander didnt accept our investigators opinion. It argued the couple were happy to take 
the risks associated with investing in this way. It felt the investments itd recommended 
offered good diversification, and that there was no justification to offer redress in the way our 
investigator had recommended. 
As a result, the matter was referred back to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When advising on investments, Santanders required to ensure any recommendations it 
makes are suitable for its customers. Establishing whether a particular investment is suitable 
should involve a consideration of things like a customers personal and financial 
circumstances, any prior investment experience they might have, and their attitude towards 
placing their money at risk. I would reasonably expect the bank to factor this sort of 
information in when its deciding what investments, if any, should be recommended to a 
particular customer. 
In my view, a recommendation is likely to be suitable if, amongst other things, it has the 
potential to meet a customers investment objectives, without exposing them to risks that 
their personal and financial circumstances suggest they cannot afford to take. Ive kept this 
in mind when reviewing this complaint. 
From the submissions available Ive noted that Mr and Mrs B had around £60,000 in cash at 
the time of the advice in 2001. Mr B was already retired, and Mrs B was due to retire in 
around five years. The couple were still paying their mortgage and lived on a modest 
income. This left them with surplus disposable income of roughly £300 each month. Theres 
no suggestion the couple had any experience of investing, beyond a small shareholding 
belonging to Mr B. Santander established that the couple were cautious investors. 
Mindful of this, Santander recommended the couple should place more than 70% of their 
savings at risk on the financial markets. Of that amount, roughly two thirds of it was placed in 
a with-profits fund. The remaining third was placed in ISAs and invested in a fund which 
contained a mix of equities and fixed interest securities. Its acknowledged in Santanders 
paperwork that whilst the couple are to be treated as cautious, they were each happy to 
take a greater level of risk with their ISAs than with the with-profits fund. Santanders advice 
letter confirms the couple were left with around £13,000 cash in case of emergencies. 
From what Ive understood of their circumstances, Im persuaded that Santander was likely 
correct to regard Mr and Mrs B as being cautious investors. But Im satisfied its advice to 
them was unsuitable. I shall explain why. 
It strikes me that the money Mr and Mrs B were taking advice on is likely to have been highly 
significant to them. Mr B had already retired, and Mrs B was due to retire in the coming 
years. Theres no suggestion that either of them were due a windfall of any sort. So it 
appears the money they had in 2001 represented the majority of what theyd be relying on to 
support them in their retirement years. This is further supported by the moneys designation 
as being earmarked for future expenditure in Santanders paperwork.   
With this in mind, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs B couldve tolerated the risk of the losses 
which had the potential to arise from placing more than 70% of their cash on the markets. 
Especially when a third of that money was invested in a fund which Santanders paperwork 
shows exceeded their cautious attitude to risk. By relying so heavily on market linked 
investments, Im satisfied Santanders overexposed money that was significant to the 
couples long-term financial security, to risk. And that this risk exceeds the level of risk Im 
persuaded Mr and Mrs B couldve reasonably afforded to take. 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs B were willing to, and couldve afforded to take some risk, with 
some of their money. Mrs Bs income couldve allowed them to save over the five-year term 
Santander was recommending for the investment. And given the size of the lump sum and 
Mrs Bs impending retirement, I can understand why they mightve been inclined to risk 
some of it, if it meant outpacing what theyd earn through deposit savings accounts. But 
given their circumstances, Im satisfied the banks decision to identify them as cautious 
investors was likely to be correct. 
In its defence of this complaint, Santanders referred to its own notes taken in 2001 which 
refer to Mr and Mrs B as being happy to take a greater degree of risk in some areas of their 
investment. But whilst I can see risk as a concept appears to have been discussed with Mr and Mrs B, and they willve understood that some elements of their investment carried 
greater risk than others, theres little evidence that persuades me the couple were given any 
explanation of what risking so much of their cash could do to their finances over the long 
term. Or what it might mean for their futures and Mrs Bs retirement plans if market 
movements didnt go their way, and their savings pot decreased in value. So Im not 
persuaded their happiness to accept the banks recommendations represents anything more 
than a general acceptance of what Santanders advisor was telling them was in their best 
interests to do. This acceptance is not any kind of endorsement that the banks advice was 
likely to be suitable.   
Its important to note that a customer being happy with a recommendation isnt the bar to 
which Santanders conduct needs to be measured. Santanders overarching responsibility in 
this scenario was to provide suitable investment advice. And this shouldve involved 
tempering Mr and Mrs Bs expectations, if their eagerness to achieve growth exceeded the 
amount of risk their circumstances indicated they could safely tolerate. 
Santander has argued that as the majority of Mr and Mrs Bs money was invested in a with-
profits fund which matched their cautious attitude to risk, that it would be unfair to say the 
banks advice as a whole was unsuitable for them. I disagree. 
My primary concern with Santanders advice is that its recommended Mr and Mrs B risk too 
much of the money that was available to them. The fact that some of it was placed in a fund 
whose label matched with the banks appraisal of the couples cautious attitude to risk, 
doesnt automatically mean that such a recommendation is suitable. The asset classes 
within a fund can give an indication of the level of risk a person might be taking by investing 
in it. But the amount that person invests will also affect the level of risk theyre taking with 
their finances overall. And in this case, Im satisfied the banks recommendation to invest 
more than 70% of their available cash in one fund which matched Mr and Mrs Bs attitude to 
risk and another which exceeded it, represented too great a risk to the couple mindful of their 
circumstances. I see no justification for investing so much of their available funds anywhere 
in Santanders paperwork from the sale. Im therefore satisfied the banks advice as a whole 
is unsuitable. Ive kept this in mind when considering what must now be done to fairly 
compensate Mrs B.   
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
B as close to the position she would probably now be in if she and Mr B had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs and Mr B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what she and Mr B would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I 
have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs and Mr B's circumstances and 
objectives when they invested.
What must Santander do?
To compensate Mrs B and Mr Bs estate fairly, Santander must:
Compare the performance of Mrs and Mr B's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.Santander should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Joint With-
Profits Bond No longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Mrs Bs ISA No longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
The estate 
of Mr Bs 
ISA No longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Santander 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Santander should be deducted from the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Santander totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to 
determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs and Mr B wanted Capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mrs and Mr B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they 
were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs B into that position. It does not 
mean that Mrs and Mr B would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate bond 
and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs and Mr B could have obtained 
from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Santander UK Plc should provide details of its calculation to Mrs B and Mr Bs estate in a 
clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and the 
estate of Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman