DRN-3516599
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds decision to decline a 
claim on their home contents policy.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S held a home contents insurance policy with Admiral. In 2018, their property 
was broken into and a number of items were stolen. Mr and Mrs S made a claim for their 
loss to Admiral. Admiral declined their claim on the basis they thought it was fraudulent.
Mr and Mrs S already had a complaint with our service when Admiral declined their claim, 
and all parties agreed we could look into Admirals decision to decline the claim. We issued 
a final decision which said it wasnt fair that Admiral decline the claim by relying on the fraud 
term, because there wasnt enough evidence to show Mr and Mrs S had acted fraudulently. 
That decision  amongst other things relating to the service provided throughout the claim -  
directed Admiral to reassess the claim based on the remaining terms.
Admiral duly did this and declined the claim in its entirety once more. It did so because it 
said Mr and Mrs S hadnt been cooperative and provided it with all the information it needed 
to validate the claim.
Mr and Mrs S complained about this decision, and one of our investigators thought their 
complaint should be upheld. Our investigator didnt agree that Mr and Mrs S had been 
uncooperative. And while she agreed parts of the claim remained unvalidated, she didnt 
think it was fair Admiral decline the whole claim. So, she recommended Admiral pay the part 
of the claim, minus the two watches it had concerns about that hadnt been validated.
Admiral didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
As stated in the background of this complaint, weve already investigated and made a finding 
on Admirals decision to rely on the fraud exclusion to decline the claim. We didnt think that 
was fair or reasonable. I wont be relooking at that decision, but its worth noting that no 
further evidence supporting the claim being fraudulent has been provided.
Admirals decision to decline the claim this time is because it says Mr and Mrs S have 
breached a term in the policy requiring them to be cooperative and provide all necessary 
information to allow it to validate the claim. The terms says Mr and Mrs S must:
Give us all the information about the claim that we need, including a Crime 
Reference Number or Loss Report Number if appropriate. Failure to do so could 
result in you not being able to claim under this policy
Co-operate with us fully, providing such assistance and additional information as may 
be required
Admiral says Mr and Mrs S havent done this in relation to two watches they are claiming for. 
And I agree Admiral hasnt got all the information it needs to validate the claim for these two 
watches. But I dont agree that Mr and Mrs S have been uncooperative. They simply dont 
have the information Admiral is asking of them.
As a general principle, it is for the insured to be able to evidence theyve suffered a loss 
covered by the policy. And here, in relation to the two watches, I dont think Mr and Mrs S 
have satisfied that burden. So, it follows that I dont think Admiral need to pay this part of 
their claim.
But although a strict application of the above term would allow it, I dont think its fair that 
Admiral decline the claim in its entirety, as there are aspects of it Admiral has no concerns 
with. If it could be shown that the claim was fraudulently exaggerated, then it would be 
reasonable for Admiral to decline the claim it its entirety. But thats not the case here. The 
previous ombudsmans decision set out that Admiral hadnt shown the claim to be 
fraudulent, and as mentioned theres no further evidence to support the claim being 
fraudulently exaggerated or argument from Admiral that it is. So, declining the whole claim 
based on Mr and Mrs S not being able to validate two items, doesnt lead to a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Admiral hasnt raised concerns about the remainder of the claim, so it should pay it, subject 
to the limits set out in the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and require Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited to
Pay Mr and Mrs Ss claim minus the two watches in dispute. Payment should be 
subject to any limits set out in the policy. Payment should also include 8% simple 
interest to be calculated from the date Admiral declined the claim for the second time, 
to the date it makes payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman