DRN-1440660
The complaint
Mr A complains that Wirecard Card Solutions Limited hasnt processed chargebacks raised 
on his account. 
Background
Mr A contacted Wirecard as he wanted to raise some chargebacks in respect of some 
transactions on his account. He says he paid for a hotel room and car hire, but he didnt get 
the services he paid for. He says the businesses involved had agreed to a refund but no 
money had been received. Mr A also disputed a traffic fine hed had to pay as he didnt 
believe there was any evidence against him. 
Wirecard says the reason the chargebacks havent been processed is because Mr A hasnt 
provided sufficient information to support his case. It has asked Mr A to provide purchase 
confirmation, full details of why the services werent as described, the dates of the hotel stay 
and car hire along with copies of written correspondence with the merchants regarding his 
dissatisfaction. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said it was reasonable for Wirecard to ask 
for this information. And without it, the chargebacks couldnt be processed. But Mr A doesnt 
agree. He says hed been unable to contact the merchants involved. And its unfair to expect 
him to provide something he isnt able to obtain. 
As our investigator hasnt been able to resolve the complaint, its been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr 
As complaint. Ill explain why below.
I should make clear at the outset that chargeback is a voluntary scheme and that each 
scheme operator is entitled to set its own scheme rules. If a card issuer, in this case 
Wirecard, believes that a customer may potentially have a valid chargeback claim it will 
gather the evidence it needs. It may also require the customer to try resolving the complaint 
directly with the merchant first, which is often a requirement of the scheme rules.  
Having gathered the evidence, and based on the scheme rules, Wirecard will then decide 
whether the claim should proceed. That is a legitimate decision for Wirecard to make and it 
is based on the probability of the claim being successful. If the evidence suggests that it will 
fail, or if there is insufficient evidence, the chargeback claim can then be refused.
Turning now to whats happened here, I can see that Wirecard has set out on several 
occasions the information it requires in order to process the chargebacks. And Mr A hasnt 
supplied this. I appreciate his comments that he isnt able to provide all the information thats 
been asked of him. But that doesnt necessarily mean Wirecard has acted unfairly by not submitting the chargeback claims. If Mr A cant evidence the claim, and Wirecard thinks its 
unlikely to succeed based on the scheme rules, then its entitled to make the decision to not 
to pursue it. 
I know that Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, but Im afraid I dont uphold his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint against Wirecard Card 
Solutions Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020. 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman