DRN-3425904
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a cancellation claim
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr and Mrs S took out an InsureFor annual travel insurance policy
through a broker. The policy was underwritten by Ageas. On 29 January 2020, Mr and Mrs S
booked a package holiday through a travel agent. They were due to travel to a country Ill
call P on 1 May 2020 until 5 May 2020.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. Ps
government announced a nationwide lockdown on 14 March 2020, including a ban on travel.
Subsequently, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office
(FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised UK nationals against all but
essential travel abroad.
And on 23 March 2020, the UK government imposed wide-ranging restrictions on
movement, commonly referred to as lockdown. This government announcement included an
instruction to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential reasons. Many of these
lockdown restrictions remained in place in May 2020 and FCDO advice against all but
essential travel to P remained in place until 4 July 2020.
On this basis, Mr and Mrs S got in touch with their travel agent to cancel their trip. As their
booking was non-refundable, they werent able to recover their trip costs. So they made a
claim on their travel insurance policy.
Ageas turned down Mr and Mrs S claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy
specifically excluded claims which arose because of the prohibitive regulations of any
government. Therefore, it said the circumstances of Mr and Mrs S claim werent covered.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with Ageas decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint. They stated that Mr S had a medical condition which meant hed had to shield 
against the risk of catching Covid-19. They told us though that he hadnt received a letter
from the NHS advising him to do so. In summary, they considered that the stay at home
restrictions imposed by the UK government were effectively quarantine. Cancellation claims
caused by the quarantine of a policyholder are something the policy covers and so Mr and
Mrs S felt their claim should be met.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs S complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that
the stay at home instruction was akin to quarantine, as UK nationals could leave their homes
for a limited list of reasons. And she didnt think the cancellation of Mr and Mrs S holiday
was down to any of the insured events the cancellation section of the policy covered. She
also thought it'd been fair for Ageas to rely on the prohibitive regulations exclusion to turn
down Mr and Mrs S claim. Thats because she felt that the UK governments restrictions
were likely to have impacted on Mr and Mrs S decision to cancel their trip.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 March 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought it was fair for Ageas to turn down Mr and Mrs S claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr and Mrs Ss policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether
Ageas treated them fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Mr and Mrs S found themselves in was completely
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, that when the insurance was
purchased in December 2019, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19
couldnt have been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore,
Ageas obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs S are limited by the terms, conditions
and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ss policy says that Ageas will pay for a policyholders unused travel and
accommodation costs if they have to cancel their trip because of one of a list of specific
insured events. The Cancellation and Curtailment section of Mr and Mrs Ss policy, set out
on page 6, says Ageas will pay such costs if a trip is cancelled for one of the following
reasons:
1.the death, bodily injury. Illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close relative or
any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness In a Court of Law (but not as an expert
witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend court); or
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of employment for
a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any Impending redundancy at the time
this policy was Issued or the trip was booked; or
4. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding or fire;
5. the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at your
home; or
6. you, or any person you Intended to travel with, who Is a member of the Armed Forces,
emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee being ordered to
return to duty.
I dont think that Mr and Mrs S trip was cancelled for any of the above reasons. This means
their claim isnt covered under the Cancellation and Curtailment section of their policy. Ive
also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs S insurance policy. But in this case, I
dont think they held cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found
themselves in.
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mr and Mrs S policy wouldnt have provided cover
if theyd travelled against FCDO advice. There may be some limited situations where, if I
didnt think an insurer had clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain
policy provisions relating to claims for changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling
against FCDO advice, I might think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a
claim outside of the policy terms and conditions.
However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Ageas to do so here. I
say that because I note that the cancellation section of Mr and Mrs S policy includes aspecific list of things Ageas doesnt cover. This list includes the following term:
claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country.
The above term is also set out on page 1 of the Insurance Product Information Document,
under a section called What is not Insured? This document is intended to give an at-a 
glance summary of the main benefits of the policy and significant restrictions on cover.
Its difficult to pinpoint with any certainty one specific reason for Mr and Mrs S claim. But on
14 March 2020, Ps government imposed lockdown. Travel restrictions were also imposed.
On 17 March 2020, the FCDO advised against all but essential travel abroad. And on 23
March 2020, the UK government had imposed lockdown, which meant travel out of the local
area was severely restricted. Travel restrictions remained in place in both P and the UK at
the point Mr and Mrs S were due to travel.
Ive looked closely at the claim form and accompanying letter Mr and Mrs S sent to Ageas.
The letter says that they cancelled their trip due to the UK Governments FCO regulations
and (P) not accepting foreign tourists. And on the claim form, Mr and Mrs S said it was
necessary to cancel the trip because they were following governments advice against all
but essential international travel.
While I note Mr and Mrs S have told us that they cancelled their trip because Mr S was
shielding, I think the evidence they provided to Ageas suggests its more likely that a
combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and government restrictions
both in P and the UK  are all likely to have impacted to some degree on Mr and Mrs S
decision to cancel their trip. So not only are the reasons for the cancellation of Mr and Mrs S
holiday not covered as listed, insured events under their policy, I think its likely the exclusion
Ive quoted above would apply to the circumstances of their claim anyway.
It's clear Mr and Mrs S feel strongly that their claim should be met under the quarantine
provision. I dont think I need to make a finding on this point though, because irrespective of
my findings above, I think theres another reason why it would be fair for Ageas to turn down
their claim, which Ill now explore further.
The cancellation section of the policy also says that Ageas wont cover: any costs Incurred
by you which are recoverable from a tour operator, public transport operator,
accommodation provider, holiday services provider or any other source, or for which you
receive or are expected to receive compensation or other assistance.
In my view, the policy terms (in common with most, if not all, travel insurance policies on the
market) make it clear that Ageas will only pay cancellation claims where a policyholder cant
recover their costs from elsewhere. It seems to me, based on the booking invoice, that Mr
and Mrs S holiday was booked as a package holiday through their travel agent.
Generally, a package holiday would be considered to be a holiday contract that includes two
or more travel services, which are combined for the purposes of the same trip. The travel
provider is liable for the performance of these services. Ive looked closely at the booking
invoice the travel agent provided Mr and Mrs S. I can see that they booked their flights,
transfers and their accommodation through the travel agent. So I think this trip could fairly be
considered to be a package holiday.
The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR) provide
protection for consumers who buy package holidays. Effectively, they say that in certain
circumstances, the travel provider is responsible for providing a full refund for holidays which
cant be provided. In this case, at the point Mr and Mrs S were due to travel, the FCDO
advice against travel was still in place, as were restrictions in P. And I think this means thatMr and Mrs S package holiday would likely have had to have been cancelled by the
relevant travel providers and the booking contract couldnt have been fulfilled.
If this had been the case, I think its most likely that the travel agent wouldve been liable
under the PTR to refund all of the money Mr and Mrs S had paid for their trip. This means
their losses wouldve been legally recoverable from the travel agent. As Mr and Mrs S chose
to cancel their trip on 8 April 2020 though, incurring full cancellation charges, I think they
prejudiced Ageas position and incurred costs they might not otherwise have done.
I can entirely understand why Mr and Mrs S chose to cancel their trip when they did. And I
sympathise with their position. But on the facts of this case, I think that by choosing to
amend the holiday on 8 April 2020, Mr and Mrs S put Ageas in a worse position than it would
otherwise have been than if theyd waited to see if the FCDO was still advising against travel
at the point they were due to depart. Thats because theyd have therefore likely been
entitled to a refund under the PTR. So on this basis alone, even if I thought the
circumstances of this claim were otherwise covered by the policy terms, I wouldve
concluded that Ageas didnt treat Mr and Mrs S unfairly when it turned down their claim.
Overall, I think it was fair and reasonable for Ageas to turn down Mr and Mrs S claim. I dont
find there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct Ageas to settle the claim.
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs S have referred to the fact that Ageas hasnt offered them a
refund of their policy premium, despite not being able to make use of their policy. It isnt clear
that theyve previously made this complaint point to Ageas though. Under our rules, a
financial business must be given a chance to look into a consumers concerns and
potentially put things right before we can investigate. So I cant look into this point here. Its
open to Mr and Mrs S to make a new complaint to Ageas about its retention of the policy
premium should they wish to do so.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Neither Mr and Mrs S nor Ageas responded by the deadline I gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to change my 
provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman