DRN-3022363
The complaint
Miss G complains that the compensation she was offered, following issues she had with a 
car that she had acquired via a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited (BMWFS), was unfair.
What happened
In November 2018, Miss G entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement, with BMWFS, 
for a nearly new car. The car was supplied with a warranty in place.
In July 2020, the car broke down due to an electrical fault and had to be recovered. The 
supplying dealer carried out a repair under the warranty. Unfortunately, the car broke down 
again due to the same issue in September 2020, and for a third time in November 2020. All 
the repairs were carried out under the warranty and Miss G was supplied with a courtesy 
car, however, Miss G says she was put to considerable inconvenience having to deal with 
the faulty car.
Following the third repair Miss G contacted BMWFS to express her dissatisfaction at the 
events and that she was concerned that the third repair would also fail. Miss G sought 
reassurance from BMWFS that if there was a further problem that it would take responsibility 
as the warranty had now expired.
BMWFS responded that, when the three-year warranty that came with the car from new 
expires, then it would not normally assist with repairs unless a further warranty had been 
purchased. However, if the issue was shown to be a manufacturing fault then BMWFS said it 
could be approached to assist but it wasnt able to give guarantees that it would provide 
help. BMWFS said it was reasonable for the consumer to cover costs of repairs including 
diagnostic fees. 
BMWFS also said that the service manager from the supplying dealership had been in touch 
with it and, in light of Miss Gs experience, they would like to offer a goodwill gesture up to 
the value of £350.
BMWFS followed up its response with an enquiry as to whether there was anything it could 
help with and, if not, it would close the case. Miss G replied that she was happy with the 
goodwill gesture, which she intended to use pay towards a new warranty.
BMWFS emailed Miss G and said that the supplying dealership had confirmed the goodwill 
gesture of £350, and that Miss G would need to make contact with them to have the process 
explained.
Miss G says that the payment of £350 didnt arrive and she had to chase this up. She was 
then informed that the goodwill gesture wasnt a cash payment but was to be in the form of a 
credit voucher. Miss G was unhappy that she hadnt been told from the start that this wasnt 
a cash payment and said the offer hadnt been clear. 
Miss G made a complaint to this service that the goodwill gesture wasnt fair and that it 
should be honoured as a cash payment rather than a store credit voucher.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Miss Gs complaint should be upheld. He said that 
the goodwill gesture had been offered by the supplying dealership and not by BMWFS. He 
said they were two separate entities and that BMWFS couldnt be held liable for an offer 
made by the supplying dealer.
Our investigator said that, looking at the account notes for Miss G provided by BMWFS, hed 
seen that BMWFS hadnt investigated any issue as to the quality of the car and it had 
confirmed to Miss G in March 2021 that the offer had been made by the supplying dealer 
and not itself. BMWFS had informed Miss G that it was unable to arrange this credit voucher 
to be changed to a cash payment.
Miss G disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said she had only dealt with BMWFS 
and it had liaised with the supplying dealer over the compensation offer and had reported 
back to her that a £350 gesture of goodwill would be made. Miss G said she had only agreed 
to the offer on the basis that it was a monetary payment rather than a credit voucher. Miss G 
said the notes provided by BMWFS supported her view that this offer had been agreed 
between BMWFS and the dealership.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the contact notes provided by BMWFS, as well as the various emails that 
were sent between Miss G and BMWFS.
This services remit is to deal with complaints between consumers and businesses that 
provide regulated financial services, as these businesses can be held responsible if 
something goes wrong such as a breach of contract, or if a misrepresentation occurs. 
However, there are things I may not be able to look at, such as the customer service a 
consumer receives from a retailer after an agreement has been taken out. This is because 
that activity doesnt fall into the category of regulated activity. 
Here, in November 2018, Miss G entered into a regulated credit agreement, namely the hire 
purchase agreement, for a nearly new car. Unfortunately, in 2020 the car developed what 
appears to have been a recurring electrical fault and broke down on three occasions,  
needing repairs to be carried out each time. Ive seen that repairs were carried out under the 
warranty that was still in place at the time.
After the car had gone into the supplying dealer for the third occasion, Ive seen from the 
account notes supplied by BMWFS, that Miss G made contact with it to say she wasnt 
happy to collect the car until she was satisfied it had been repaired. BMWFS tried to make 
contact with the supplying dealer, but was unable to do so and, as Miss G raised the 
possibility of voluntary termination of the agreement, her call was then passed to another 
department. BMWFS said it would make contact with Miss G about the issue she had raised 
within a few days.
BMWFS contacted Miss G around five days later and she confirmed she had now collected 
the car. There followed a discussion as to what would happen if the car developed a further 
fault now that the warranty had expired, and she was informed that it would be her responsibility to cover the costs of any diagnostics but, if the fault was found to be a 
manufacturers defect, then BWMFS would be contacted. The note says that Miss G asked 
for compensation from the supplying dealer and BMWFS said it would review this with them 
and get back to her.
BMWFS then called the service manager at the supplying dealership. The fault with the car 
was discussed and the dealership confirmed a new part had now been fitted. The supplying 
dealership offered a gesture of goodwill up to the value of £350, due to the inconvenience 
caused to Miss G. 
BMWFS sent an email to Miss G setting out in writing its early view regarding covering the 
cost of diagnostics when there was no warranty in place. It also informed her about the offer 
made by the supplying dealership.
Miss G accepted the gesture of goodwill and BMWFS passed that on to the supplying dealer 
asking that it was actioned.
I can appreciate that Miss G would have been disappointed and frustrated when she learnt 
that the offer wasnt to provide a cash payment but instead a credit voucher that could be 
used in store. And I agree that the nature of the goodwill gesture wasnt clear when 
presented to her and so was open to misinterpretation. The issue for me to decide is 
whether BMWFS has a responsibility for the offer of making a goodwill gesture.
Ive seen that BMWFS hasnt investigated anything about the quality of the car, what it did 
was take Miss Gs request for compensation from the supplying dealer to them for a 
response. I think this was a reasonable action for BMWFS to take as it was a possibility this 
would resolve Miss Gs complaint about what had happened.
The supplying dealer made an offer of up to £350 to Miss G in recognition that she had 
been inconvenienced by having the car develop the electrical fault, and BMWFS passed this 
back to Miss G. Looking at the email correspondence I think its reasonable to say that 
BMWFS was clear this offer was from the supplying dealership and not from itself. There is 
no comment from BMWFS that suggests that it had negotiated the offer or agreed that it was 
fair. I think its reasonable to say BMWFS put this offer forward on behalf of the supplying 
dealership, and I havent seen any evidence that this was an offer that had been agreed 
between BMWFS and the supplying dealership as being a fair outcome for a complaint 
about the quality of the car. 
While I appreciate Miss G accepted the gesture of goodwill without appreciating it was a 
credit voucher, I dont think I can reasonable say that BMWFS was responsible for this offer. 
BMWFS hadnt investigated for itself whether an offer of compensation would be appropriate 
due to the issues Miss G had experienced with the car. I havent seen any evidence that 
BMWFS had accepted that it had any liability as to the quality of the car. It had only enquired 
whether the supplying dealer would be prepared to offer compensation as had been 
requested by Miss G.
As I cant reasonably say that the offer of £350 was approved, endorsed or agreed by 
BMWFS, then I think its fair to consider this was an offer from the supplying dealership only. 
And Im afraid I cant require the supplying dealer to pay Miss G the £350 in cash as 
opposed to providing her with a credit voucher to that value. I dont have a remit in these 
circumstances to look at the customer service provided by the dealership, nor can I require 
them to take alternative action.So, although this will be of disappointment to Miss G, Im not upholding her complaint about 
the compensation not being a cash payment but a credit voucher instead, as BMWFS wasnt 
responsible for it. And, in these circumstances, I dont think that BMWFS has acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman