DRN-3295951
The complaint
Ms B, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC, lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information provided by Morses, here is a brief table of the approved loans. Morses 
has given consent for us to review loans 1 and 2 as well as 3 and , but it has very little 
information about loans 1 and 2. 
Loan Date Amount Term Weekly 
repaymentsSettled
1 7 March 2013 £100 14 August 2013
2 14 August 2013 £150 34 weeks £7.50 Still o/s in 
October 2016
3 7 September 2018 £100 20 weeks £7.50 13 December 
2018
4 13 December 2018 £250 33 weeks £12.50 Still o/s 
March 2021
One of our adjudicators thought that Morses should not have approved loans 3 and 4 for 
Ms B. Our adjudicators view was that Morses likely knew of Ms Bs earlier loan history for 
loans 2 and that it was still outstanding in 2018 when she applied for loan 3. That plus 
Ms Bs credit file history at the time of applying for loan 3 led our adjudicator to think that 
Morses ought not to have approved loans 3 and 4. In 2018 Ms B had four County Court 
Judgments (CCJs) registered against her name. 
Morses disagreed. It said:
- at the time it approved loan 3 it would not have known of the lending history for loans 
1 and 2. Morses explained - because of the time that had passed the agent would not 
have been required to search for any existing accounts; and 
- additionally, when Loans 3 and 4 were applied for, Miss Bs address was provided to 
us in a different format and so a new account was set up for her, and Morses 
indicated that there would not have been any cross-referencing; and
- Morses confirmed that although the CCJ records would have known to it from the 
credit search carried out prior to issuing Loan 3, Morses Club loans were designed to 
facilitate the lending needs of consumers whatever their situation, and as a non-
standard lender it expected its customers to have some adverse credit history; and
- at the time Loan 3 was applied for, Ms Bs disposable income was disclosed as 
£104.99 per week, meaning that the loan repayment of £7.50 amounted to 7.14% of 
her weekly disposable income; and
- at the time Loan 4 was applied for, Ms Bs disposable income was disclosed as £132 
each week, meaning that the loan repayment of £12.50 amounted to 9.46% of her 
weekly disposable income, and Morses would not have considered that excessive.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Ms B didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 and 2. Because of this 
I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be deciding 
about this lending. 
But I do make an observation that the little information we have about loans 1 and 2 and 
Ms Bs situation at the time she applied for them would make it difficult to come to any 
conclusions. This is what our adjudicator thought and I agree. 
But loans 1 and 2 were part of the borrowing relationship Ms B had with Morses. So, they 
are something I will take into account when considering the other loans Ms B took. I realise 
this is one of Morses reasons it objects to our adjudicators outcome: that its agent would not 
have searched for other accounts when Ms B approached Morses for Loan 3 and/or that her different address provided to us in a different format meant that a new account was set up 
for her. And so it says it would not have known of the earlier lending.
On this point I have reviewed the information Morses has sent to us. Despite its final 
response letter (FRL) only listing the two loans (Loans 3 and 4), when Morses sent to us its 
file for investigation it was able to send us all the details surrounding loans 1 and 2. And so 
I am not persuaded that the records for Ms B were so different that no link or cross 
referencing did not, or could not, happen when Ms B applied for loan 3. Morses had the 
records and Morses is not saying that Ms Bs address was totally different  only that it was 
in a different format. So, I think its very likely that a cursory search on Ms Bs surname and 
date of birth likely would have led to her older loan accounts being discovered. 
And if I am wrong on that, as I appreciate I do not know the internal agents working 
practices, I still think that the explanation given by Morses as to why its agent would not 
have known about loans 1 and 2 when Ms B applied for loan 3 is weak and I reject it. And 
one of the reasons I say that is because having seen a copy credit file (a recent one from 
Ms B dated April 2021) her loan 2 with Morses which commenced in August 2013 still 
showed on it. And so, the likelihood of Morses not being aware that Ms B still owed it money 
when she approached them in September 2018 is low as it has said it carried out a search 
before lending.
Morses has accepted that it carried out a credit search before approving loan 3 and it has 
accepted that it would have been aware of the CCJs registered against her name. It has not 
been able to send us the results it obtained in 2018 and so I have reviewed the copy Ms B 
has sent to us of her personal credit file. Ms B had defaults for a priority bill (water) plus 
other defaulted accounts in the lead up to applying to Morses for loan 3. And she had four 
outstanding CCJs. These were two Judgments dating back to September 2016, one in 
April 2017 and one in June 2018, all of which were, and remain, unsatisfied CCJs. 
I appreciate that a poor credit record may not be a reason, on its own, to refuse a person a 
loan. However, Ms Bs existing record, plus the extent of the poor financial management four 
CCJs demonstrates would be enough for a lender to consider the applications more 
thoroughly. 
Morses has cited Ms Bs income and expenditure figures to justify its loan approvals and 
indicating that the repayments were low and so she could afford it. But affordability  if that 
was the case  is not always the whole picture. Ms B clearly had had difficult repaying 
loan 2, and upon reapplying in 2018 her situation had worsened. 
It was clear that Ms M was poor at managing her finances, had outstanding CCJs and a 
long-term outstanding debt with Morses itself. I do not accept that Morses likely did not 
know, or had no method of discovering, about the loan 2 debt, and I think that Morses lent to 
her irresponsibly in relation to loans 3 and 4.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms B from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms B loans 3 and 4. I understand that the last loan remains 
outstanding. And I do think that Morses can offset any redress from loans 3 and 4 to repay 
the outstanding sum (£25) on loan 2. That way Ms B, hopefully, can move forward with all 
(or most) of her Morses accounts cleared. 
putting things right  what Morses needs to do
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loans 3 and 4,
treat any payments made by Ms B on loan 4 as payments towards the capital on loan 4 
of £250,
if Ms B has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to her 
with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement after first 
settling the loan 2 debt,
but if theres still an outstanding balance for Ms B to pay, Morses should come to a 
reasonable repayment plan with Ms B,
remove any adverse information about loans 3 and 4 from Ms Bs credit file.
And if Morses no longer owns the loan 4 debt, and it wants to make a deduction due to the 
amount owed, then it should buy it back. If it doesnt then it isnt entitled to make any 
deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Ms B directly.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to take off tax from this interest. Morses must 
give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outline above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman