DRN-3775903
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against his travel 
insurance policy. Reference to Aviva includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr M has travel insurance underwritten by Aviva as a benefit of 
his bank account. In September 2012, Mr M was injured in a road traffic accident whilst 
on a trip. I understand that he was a passenger in a minibus that overturned. 
Mr M instructed solicitors to pursue a claim against the driver of the minibus. I 
understand that claim was successful but the damages available to Mr M were 
insufficient. That was because the drivers insurance had a limit of approximately £5,000.  
In December 2019, Mr M contacted Aviva and made a claim for £350,000 for loss of 
earnings. I understand that Mr M worked previously as a computer analyst. There was 
some delay in providing Aviva with the information it required. By February 2021, Aviva 
had the necessary documentation in order to consider Mr Ms claim further.  
In June 2021, Aviva told Mr M that it required an independent medical examination. The 
independent medical examination took place in September 2021. Aviva had some  
follow-up questions for the doctor, but it didnt receive a response. In May 2022, one of 
Avivas in-house doctors reviewed the report. Mr M complained about the delay and the 
matter was referred to this service. 
Aviva declined Mr Ms claim. It said that the claim didnt fall within the terms of the policy. 
Aviva offered Mr M compensation of £200 in relation to delays in reaching its decision. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with that and pursued his complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that Aviva hadnt acted 
unfairly in declining the claim as it didnt fall within the policy terms and conditions. The 
investigator said that Avivas offer of compensation of £200 was fair and reasonable in 
relation to the delays for which it was responsible. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he finds it difficult to accept that 
Aviva cant get relevant information from a company it hired. Mr M said that if the 
information isnt readily available or has been delayed, Aviva should hire a different 
company. He said that he provided Aviva with all the information it requested, and hes 
undergone tests and examinations. Mr M says that his career was cut short because of 
the accident. He wants Aviva to settle his claim.
The investigator considered what Mr M said but it didnt change his view. Mr M asked 
that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
Ive looked carefully at Mr Ms policy. Mr Ms claim is for loss of earnings following his 
injuries sustained whilst on a trip. One of the general exclusions in the policy says as follows:
General Exclusions which apply to the whole travel policy
This policy does not cover the following:
[]
5. Any loss that is not specifically described in the stated terms and conditions, e.g. we will 
not pay for loss of earnings if you are unable to return to work due to injury or illness during 
your trip.
[]
Aviva considered Mr Ms claim under the following part of the policy:
Personal Accident
We will cover you if you suffer an accidental injury during your trip that leads solely, directly 
and independently of any other cause to your:
1. death; or
2. loss of one or more limbs and/or the total loss of sight in one or both eyes; or
3. permanent total disablement after 104 weeks from the date you incurred the injury []
[]
The most we will pay
The most we will pay for each insured person is £50,000 []
Permanent Total Disablement is defined as A permanent and total disability that means 
you cannot do any kind of job.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding                
Mr Ms complaint because I dont think that Aviva treated him unfairly or unreasonably. I say 
that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
As Ive set out above, theres a general exclusion in relation to any loss not 
specifically covered in the policy  for example loss of earnings following injury 
during a trip. Thats a common term and the example of whats excluded is directly 
relevant here. So, Mr Ms claim for loss of earnings isnt covered by the policy. I 
think that Aviva was right to consider Mr Ms claim under the personal accident 
provisions in the policy. Ive set out above an extract of the personal accident provisions. In the particular 
circumstances here, the central question is whether Mr M has shown that he 
suffered permanent total disablement, as defined by the policy. So, Mr M has to 
show that he cant do any kind of job due to the injury he suffered on his trip.
I dont think that Aviva was at fault in concluding that Mr M hadnt suffered 
permanent total disablement such that he couldnt do any kind of job due to the 
injury he suffered on his trip. Ill explain why.
The report of 14 October 2015 from Mr Ms GP refers to Mr Ms injuries from the 
accident as a fracture to his left clavicle, a fractured rib, whiplash, pain from his 
back, left hip and knee and depression caused by chronic pain. The GP said that 
he couldnt say that Mr M will be unable to work permanently. He said that Mr M 
may not be able to return to a full time job, there may be some restrictions on what 
he can do, and he wont be able to do manual work. A follow-up report from the GP 
said that Mr Ms is a right handed computer operator and that it is impossible for 
me to justify that he will be permanently be off from work (sic). So, the GP didnt 
say that Mr M couldnt do any kind of job due to the injury he suffered on his trip. 
 The report of 21 September 2021 from the doctor who carried out the independent 
medical review said that Mr M has a poorly functioning shoulder and he suspected 
that there is only limited scope for improvement. He said that Mr M would benefit 
from seeing a chronic pain specialist and may have some limited benefit from  
physiotherapy. The doctor said that it was difficult to say to what degree the 
disability in Mr Ms left arm was due to his injury as his degree of disability and 
discomfort with his shoulder were unusual. He said that Mr B had an unusually 
poor result following a fracture of the clavicle and that an element of Mr Bs 
difficulties was due to chronic pain and poor rehabilitation as a result of that. Whilst 
the report indicated that Mr B had a painful injury and some poor function, there 
was nothing to indicate that he cant do any kind of job. 
Aviva asked the independent medical examiner some follow-up questions about 
the extent of Mr Ms disability. It didnt receive a response so Aviva asked one of its 
in-house doctors to review the report. I think it was appropriate in the 
circumstances that arose here for one of Avivas in-house doctors to consider the 
matter. 
Avivas in-house doctor said that if Mr Ms pain could be controlled its unlikely that 
all types of work and every profession would be impossible for him, if there are no 
additional barriers, such as mental health conditions. Avivas doctor said that Mr M 
may be able to engage in work from home and drive an adapted vehicle. 
I dont think that Aviva was at fault in concluding that Mr M hadnt shown that he 
couldnt do any sort of work as a result of the injuries he sustained whilst on his 
trip. The medical evidence doesnt support a conclusion that Mr M couldnt do any 
kind of job. So, I dont think that Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining 
Mr Ms claim. 
Its common ground that Mr Ms claim wasnt handled as well as wed expect. 
Whilst Aviva wasnt responsible for all the delay that occurred, it was responsible 
for some of it. And it didnt provide Mr M with regular and timely updates about 
what was happening. In all the circumstances, I think that Avivas offer of 
compensation of £200 in relation to its handling of Mr Ms claim is fair and reasonable. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and 
duration of the delays caused by Aviva in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. If he wishes to accept Avivas 
previous offer and it has not already been paid, he should contact it direct. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman