DRN-3426426
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC sent her statements for another customers 
account. 
What happened
Miss S requested copy statements for her Barclaycard account. When she received them, 
however, she noticed that some were missing and that they included some statements for a 
different customer, the late Mr B. 
Barclaycard sent Miss S the missing statements, apologised, and paid her £25 by way of 
compensation. Miss S did not think that was sufficient, as she had had to contact the 
solicitors acting for Mr Bs estate and was concerned that her own data might have been 
compromised as well. She referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator thought that Barclaycard had done enough to resolve matters. There was, 
he said, no reason to think that Miss Ss personal information had been disclosed to anyone 
else. The compensation paid was in line with what he would expect in these circumstances. 
Miss S did not accept that assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator did, and for 
similar reasons.
Barclaycard has made two errors here. First, it did not send all the statements that Miss S 
had requested. Second, it sent statements relating to a different customer. The result was 
that Miss S was put to the time and trouble of chasing for the missing statements and 
contacting the other customers representatives. She should be compensated for that. 
There is however no evidence that Miss Ss own personal information has been sent to 
another customer. I cannot assume that it has, simply because she received another 
customers statements. If, however, such evidence does come to light, I would expect 
Barclaycard to address any complaint that Miss S might bring as a result. 
As I have indicated, I accept that Miss S was put to some inconvenience. I accept too that 
she may have suffered some distress as a result of having to deal (albeit briefly) with 
information relating to a deceased customer. In my view, however, Barclaycard has paid 
sufficient compensation to put things right. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do 
anything more to resolve Miss Ss complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman