DRN-2205574
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the amount AXA Insurance UK Plc have paid as a cash 
settlement for repairs to their property. They are also unhappy with the amount of 
compensation that has been offered to them.
 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr and Mrs Ps contents insurance policy contains a clause which says AXA will only 
pay as a cash settlement what it would have cost it, had the work been completed by 
its own contractors. AXA has paid this amount to Mr and Mrs P, less the excess due 
under their policy. I understand Mr and Mrs P were initially told AXAs contractor had 
costed the work at £1,650, however this was only an estimate and not the actual 
amount for the repairs.
Ive reviewed the information Mr and Mrs Ps contractor gave to AXA and I think it 
has raised reasonable concerns about the value of works the contractor carried out. 
Given the term in the policy explained above, I think AXA has acted fairly in paying 
the amount it has to Mr and Mrs P. 
AXA has accepted the service it provided to Mr and Mrs P was poor, given there 
were delays and it took approximately four months to make the cash settlement to 
Mr and Mrs P.  AXA also initially mislaid Mr and Mrs Ps contractors quote. Mr and 
Mrs P paid for the work to be done privately as they were frustrated with the delays 
and the impact the situation was having on them. 
AXA paid £350 compensation to Mr and Mrs P which I think is reasonable amount to 
reflect the trouble and upset they were caused. There is no mention on file prior to 
February 2020 of Mr P being unwell or any specific details as to how their lives were 
being impacted. I understand why Mr and Mrs P took action to have the work 
completed, especially due to the time of year and that it was their bedroom that was 
affected. And, I realise they had to do most of the chasing for the claim to be 
progressed and paid. Ive also heard them explain how awful they found the whole 
experience. However, overall, I think the amount offered is reasonable and Im not 
persuaded any further compensation is due. 
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against AXA Insurance UK 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman