DRN-1690002
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was mis-advised by ReAssure Limited to contract out of the State 
Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). And he also complains, ReAssure advised him 
in 2017 to remain in his current pension plan which has performed poorly.
What happened
In 1990 Mr C took out a pension in a with-profits fund with Legal and General (L&G). He was 
recommended to contract out of SERPS which he did. The policy was later transferred to 
ReAssure, so this complaint has been set up against ReAssure. 
In late 2017 Mr C wanted to increase the contributions he was making towards his 
retirement. Mr C says that he contacted ReAssure who recommended that he remained in 
his with-profits fund. Mr C made a single premium contribution of £12,000 followed by 
monthly premiums from his employer of £1,000 a month.
In 2019 Mr C felt that his pension fund was performing poorly compared to his wifes 
pension. So, Mr C complained to ReAssure as he didnt think he should have been 
recommended to contract out of SERPS in 1990 and he also felt the advice he was given by 
ReAssure in 2017 was poor advice.
In their response ReAssure said Mr Cs age and income, at the time of taking out the plan, 
were within their guidelines for a recommendation to contract out of SERPS. So, they felt 
their advice was suitable. ReAssure also said they couldnt locate any calls in 2017 during 
which it advised Mr C to remain in his plan. They said the plan had been managed correctly 
and didnt feel they had done anything wrong.
Mr C wasnt happy, as he maintained that ReAssure had advised him to remain in his 
current plan in 2017. So, he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator felt ReAssure had followed its guidelines in recommending contracting out 
of SERPS to Mr C. He was under the maximum age and earned more than the minimum 
recommended wage at the time of the advice. So, our investigator felt the advice was 
suitable. In regard to the advice given by ReAssure our investigator was satisfied that 
ReAssure couldnt locate any calls from Mr C in 2017 where he was given advice. Our 
investigator also noted that Mr C had signed a declaration when increasing his contributions 
in 2017 saying he hadnt received any advice from ReAssure. So, our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view as he felt the onus was on ReAssure to provide 
proof that it hadnt given him advice. So, the case has been passed onto me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issues to determine in this case are whether ReAssures advice for Mr C to contract out 
of SERPS was suitable and if ReAssure advised Mr C to remain in his with-profits fund when 
he increased his contributions in 2017.
ReAssure have provided us with the guidance they used at the time which showed whether 
it was potentially worthwhile contracting out of SERPS. The guidance used a maximum age 
of the customer combined with a minimum acceptable salary to determine if contracting out 
was suitable. Thats because it was less likely to be beneficial for someone to contract out of 
SERPS if they were closer to retirement, and the funds didnt have much time to grow. It was 
also less beneficial if the national insurance rebates would be too small due to them earning 
a lower salary.
In 1990 when Mr C contracted out of SERPS he was 24 years old. On the form signed by Mr 
C in 1990 it recorded his income that year as £12,000. At that time, ReAssures guidance 
said that Mr C needed to be under the age of 50 and earning more than £5,000 a year for it 
to be potentially beneficial to contract out of SERPS. Given the length of time until retirement 
and the potential to be better off. I think it was suitable for ReAssure to advise Mr C to 
contract out of SERPS at the time the advice was given.
Mr C says ReAssure gave him poor financial advice over the phone in 2017 by advising him 
to remain in his with-profits fund. But ReAssure say it cant locate any phone calls during 
which it gave advice to Mr C about his pension. I appreciate Mr Cs point, that ReAssure 
havent disproved his account of the conversation he says he had with them. But I base my 
decision on whats most likely to have happened based on all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
ReAssure have provided the contact notes from Mr Cs account. And the notes show that Mr 
C contacted ReAssure several times in 2017.
The notes first record Mr C contacting ReAssure in March 2017. But Mr C accepts this is not 
the call in which ReAssure gave him advice. As it was call between Mr C, ReAssure and an 
independent financial advisor. Mr C says this call was well before his call regarding his 
complaint.
The next call note ReAssure have recorded was from September 2017, the note says; Can 
you please post a fund guide, switch form to PH along with confirming the PH is in with 
profits. This call was followed by a letter sent 2 October 2017 which said Ive enclosed a 
form and a guide to our pension funds. The quick reference section, at the back of the guide, 
shows the funds available to the plan. For any information about switching funds, including 
charges, please read the guidelines on the cover page of the switch form. I can confirm that 
the above plan is currently invested in With Profits fund.
The call notes and follow up letter dont suggest to me that Mr C was given advice during the 
call. Mr Cs employer signed the additional contributions form on 27 September 2017. So, I 
think its likely Mr C had made up his mind to continue contributing to his with-profits fund 
prior to that date. But ReAssure are unable to locate any earlier conversations with Mr C. 
And Mr C isnt able to provide any more accurate dates of when he says the conversation 
took place.
ReAssure then sent Mr C a further letter on 5 October 2017. Amongst other things the letter 
said;
 
As you know, your company have requested to add monthly contributions to your pension 
plan.As you have not previously paid recurrent contributions to this plan, there are different 
options available to you. We generally recommend customers to take financial advice 
regarding this change. 
If you decide to proceed without taking advice, well treat your instruction as an Execution 
Only instruction. We classify such an instruction as one where we have not been asked to 
provide advice and have not done so. Such an instruction is one for which you must accept 
full responsibility, irrespective of the financial outcome Legal & General will not accept 
responsibility for any financial loss - to you or your dependants - caused by your instruction 
You should be aware that in the event of a complaint or dispute, we would take account of 
the fact that you instructed the transaction on a non-advised basis
I think the letter is quite clear that ReAssure were treating the instruction as execution only 
meaning Mr C hadnt got advice from either ReAssure or anyone else. It also told Mr C that 
they recommend he get financial advice. 
The letter went on to say;
Please either complete the attached form if you are willing to accept responsibility for your 
execution only instruction, or send us written confirmation that you have taken advice on this 
change 
So, Mr C was asked to sign a document which specifically confirmed that ReAssure hadnt 
given him any advice on the change of contributions. Or confirm in writing that he had taken 
financial advice on the subject. I think its likely that if Mr C had been given advice by 
ReAssure he would have questioned the statements they were making. But I havent seen 
any evidence he questioned these statements or that he provided written confirmation hed 
received advice as he was asked to. 
On 20 December 2017 Mr C signed the declaration which said;
I confirm
that I have not asked Legal & General for advice about adding contributions to this 
arrangement
that Legal & General have not given me advice about adding contributions to this 
arrangement
that I am aware that Legal & General will not accept responsibility for any financial 
loss caused by my decision and.
that I understand that I must accept responsibility for my decision to add these 
contributions and associate fund choice
The correspondence ReAssure sent Mr C at the time is evidence that Mr C didnt received 
advice. So, in order for me to conclude that, on balance, ReAssure gave Mr C financial 
advice, Id need some sort of corroborating evidence. ReAssure have been unable to locate 
the call where Mr C says he was given advice by them. But it has produced a record of what 
they say are all the calls they can locate from Mr C. And those records dont indicate that Mr 
C was given any advice. 
All of the calls ReAssure have recorded were followed up with letters written at the time. And 
those letters make it quite clear that ReAssure were acting in the belief Mr C hadnt been 
given any advice from them. Mr C also signed a declaration to that affect. Had Mr C received 
advice from ReAssure, I would have expected to see him question why he was signing to 
say that he hadnt. And even if the call couldnt be located, I would have also expected to see a follow up letter sent to Mr C, as ReAssure did with all of the other calls. So, I think on 
balance, its unlikely ReAssure gave Mr C advice to remain in his with-profits fund. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, but for the reasons Ive given, I wont be 
upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman