DRN-4296126
The complaint
Mr J and Ms D complain on behalf of Mrs J that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined a 
claim made under her home insurance policy following damage caused by a water leak.
Mr J has primarily dealt with things so, for simplicity, Ill refer to him only.
Reference to Fairmead includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mr J got in touch with Fairmead in December 2022 after a leak caused water damage 
at Mrs Js home.
Fairmead declined the claim. As Mrs J wasnt living at her home, the policy required 
the heating to remain on and maintain a temperature of at least 15 degrees. 
Fairmead wasnt persuaded this had been achieved based on utility bills.
Mr J didnt think this was fair. He said the heating was on a thermostat programmed 
to maintain the required temperature. And he said the cause of the leak wasnt 
related to the temperature in the home.
Fairmead maintained it had declined the claim fairly. However, it accepted there had 
been slight delays and paid £50 compensation.
Our investigator said the complaint should be upheld. He said the plumbers report 
showed the leak wasnt caused by the temperature. Bearing in mind ICOBS 8.1.2B 
requires the rejection of a claim for the breach of a condition to be connected to the 
circumstances of the claim, he thought Fairmead should have accepted the claim.
Mr J agreed but Fairmead didnt. It reiterated that it didnt think the utility bills showed 
the temperature threshold in the policy had been met. And as the leak coincided with 
a period of cold weather, it thought the damage may have been connected to the 
temperature in the home being below the threshold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by water as a result of a burst, leaking or 
overflowing domestic water or heating installation, appliance or piping. Theres no 
dispute this is what happened, and the damage is covered in principle.
Mrs J wasnt living at her home in late 2022. Fairmead has a policy term which says, 
in summary, that cover for a water leak is dependent upon maintaining the central 
heating to a minimum of 15 degrees over winter.
Fairmead declined the claim because it didnt think the temperature threshold in this 
policy term had been met.
But I dont think I need to decide whether the term was met in order to reach a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint. Ill explain why.
As our investigator pointed out, ICOBS 8.1.2B says, in summary, that it would be 
unfair for an insurer to reject a claim for breach of a policy condition if the 
circumstances of the claim arent connected to the breach. In my view, that means it 
would be unfair to decline a claim where the loss would have happened regardless of 
whether the policy condition was complied with or not. 
The plumbers report is clear that the cause of the leak was a faulty ball cock in the 
water tank. They said it allowed the tank to keep filling until it overflowed. The 
plumber didnt indicate this problem had anything to do with the temperature.
Whilst Fairmead has suggested the cold weather may have caused the leak by 
freezing the pipes, it hasnt offered a plumbers report or similar to support that 
conclusion. And it accepts the pipes hadnt ruptured, which in my view is commonly 
associated with damage caused by freezing. It says its possible for freezing to cause 
pipes to pop apart, rather than rupture, and that may be so. But this comment 
seems to be mere speculation about what could have happened rather than an 
evidence-based assessment of what likely happened in this particular case. In the 
circumstances, Im more persuaded by what the plumber said.
So even if the temperature had dropped below the required threshold, Im not 
satisfied that was likely to have been the cause of the leak and subsequent damage. 
That means the damage was likely to have happened whether the policy term was 
complied with or not. It follows that Im not persuaded it would be fair for Fairmead to 
rely on the policy term to decline the claim even if it had been breached.
To put things right, Fairmead should accept the claim, subject to the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. It should get in touch with Mr J to explore the next steps 
for settling the claim.My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to accept the claim, subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman