DRN-4370148
The complaint
Mr L and Ms S complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited didnt allow them to defer their 
payments to their second charge mortgage in 2020, when it should have done so because of 
the coronavirus pandemic.
What happened
Mr L and Ms S have a second charge secured loan with Shawbrook, which theyre paying on 
a capital and interest repayment basis. At the beginning of 2020, the loan had been in and 
out of arrears for several years. Mr L and Ms S were in regular contact with Shawbrook 
about their mortgage payment arrangements.
Mr L and Ms S have said that their incomes were affected as a result of the coronavirus 
pandemic. No payments were made to the loan between April and October 2020. There 
have been some missed or late payments since then, but Mr L and Ms S have resumed 
making payments more regularly.
In October 2022, Mr L and Ms S complained to Shawbrook. They said they had asked 
Shawbrook for a payment holiday, or deferral, on the loan in 2020, but Shawbrook had said 
no. They had recently realised that they were entitled to a deferral in line with regulatory 
guidance in place at the time to support customers in the early stages of the pandemic. They 
wanted the loan arrears not to be treated as such by Shawbrook or on their credit files, and 
they wanted the opportunity to capitalise the arrears.
Shawbrook said that Mr Ls and Ms Ss loan was already in arrears before the pandemic, 
and it wouldnt have offered a payment deferral in these circumstances  even if Mr L and 
Ms S had requested one, which it said they hadnt. 
Our Investigator ultimately recommended that the complaint be upheld. He referred to 
relevant regulatory guidance, and said that Shawbrook should have offered Mr L and Ms S a 
six-month payment deferral in May 2020, when Mr L had told Shawbrook that their incomes 
had been affected as a result of coronavirus. He said Shawbrook should re-work Mr Ls and 
Ms Ss loan on that basis, and pay them £450 compensation.
Mr L and Ms S indicated that they accepted the Investigators conclusions. Shawbrook said it 
didnt accept them. It didnt submit any further evidence or arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the coronavirus pandemic, on 20 March 2020 the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), published specific guidance for lenders with regards to mortgages. 
The guidance was aimed at helping mortgage borrowers whose financial circumstances had 
been affected by the pandemic.
The guidance reminded lenders of their obligation to treat customers fairly, and said that 
lenders should offer a payment holiday, or deferral, where appropriate. It also said:
Where a customer indicates they may potentially experience payment difficulties in the 
current circumstances and wish to receive a payment holiday, a firm should grant a 
customer a payment holiday for the 3 monthly payments that follow that interaction.
If, during an interaction between the firm and the customer, the customer provides 
information suggesting that the customer may potentially experience payment 
difficulties, the firm should ask whether the customer would be interested in a payment 
holiday.
To be clear, there is no expectation under this guidance that the firm investigates the 
circumstances surrounding a request for a payment holiday. []
This guidance applies in respect of a customer regardless of whether they are in a 
payment shortfall. [] Customers in payment shortfall should not receive less 
favourable treatment than other customers. 
The guidance went on to say that a payment deferral shouldnt be recorded as a payment 
shortfall (arrears) and that loans in payment deferral shouldnt be recorded as having a 
worsening position as a result of the deferral, including on the customers credit file. 
The guidance also says that firms should have agreed payment deferrals unless it wasnt in 
the customers best interests to do so. And the FCA guidance is clear that customers who 
were already in arrears shouldnt be precluded from being offered a payment deferral. So Im 
satisfied that it was unfair and unreasonable of Shawbrook not to have offered a deferral to 
Mr L and Ms S because of their loan arrears.
The guidance is also clear that customers didnt have to specifically ask for a payment 
deferral in order for the lender to have offered one. So I dont accept Shawbrooks argument 
that it didnt offer a payment deferral because Mr L and Ms S didnt ask. While firms werent 
required to proactively contact customers and offer a payment deferral, where a customer 
was already in touch with the firm and said they were experiencing financial difficulties, firms 
should have offered a payment deferral  the customer didnt have to ask for one.
In any case, leaving aside the FCAs guidance specific to coronavirus, lenders should treat 
their customers fairly when theyre in financial difficulty and explore what options might be 
available to help them. I think that not offering a payment deferral when Mr L told Shawbrook 
in May 2020 that he and Ms S were in financial difficulty and couldnt afford to make 
payments to their secured loan was inconsistent with this obligation. 
Ive listened to a recording of the call Shawbrook made to Mr L on 21 May 2020. Shawbrook 
asked him about the loan arrears. Mr L said: due to coronavirus my employers not paying 
me until the end of June. Shawbrook then asked whether he had been furloughed, and Mr L 
confirmed he had. He also said Ms S was in the same situation.
Im satisfied that Shawbrook should have given Mr L and Ms S the option of deferring their 
loan payments during or shortly after this call. Mr L and Ms S were clearly finding things 
difficult financially and unable to pay their loan. In the light of the regulatory guidance in 
place at the time, I see no reasonable basis on which Mr L and Ms S should not have been 
offered a deferral.
The FCAs guidance about supporting customers during coronavirus was later updated and 
it extended the maximum payment deferral a customer could have from three to six months. In all the circumstances, I consider that a fair and reasonable outcome in this case is for 
Shawbrook to re-work Mr Ls and Ms Ss loan and credit files as though a payment deferral 
had been put in place for six months following Mr Ls call with it on 21 May 2020. 
Shawbrook should also set out the options available to Mr L and Ms S to repay the 
payments that werent made during the payment deferral, including the option of capitalising 
them, so that Mr L and Ms S can see the implications for their monthly loan payments and/ 
or loan term and decide how they prefer to make up the missed payments. Capitalising any 
other remaining arrears on the mortgage may be an option for Mr L and Ms S, but it is 
something they would need to discuss with Shawbrook in the first instance. 
I also agree with our Investigator that Mr L and Ms S should fairly receive some 
compensation for non-financial loss. It was clear from Mr Ls calls with Shawbrook on 
21 May 2020 and in the months that followed that he and Ms S were struggling financially 
during the early months of the pandemic. I also note that Mr L had told Shawbrook about his 
health problems and vulnerability in earlier calls, and I think Mr L and Ms S were caused 
avoidable worry and upset because they werent offered the help they should have had in 
line with regulatory guidance. I consider £450 is a fair award in recognition of this. 
Putting things right
To settle this complaint, Shawbrook Bank Limited must:
- re-work Mr Ls and Ms Ss secured loan and credit files as though a payment deferral 
had been in place for six months following Mr Ls call with it on 21 May 2020; 
- set out the options available to Mr L and Ms S to repay the payments that werent made 
during the payment deferral, including capitalising them, so that Mr L and Ms S can see 
the implications for their monthly loan payments and/ or loan term and decide how they 
prefer to make up the missed payments;
- pay Mr L and Ms S £450 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Shawbrook Bank Limited to put 
things right as set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr L and Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman