DRN-3540581
The complaint
Ms H and Mr J complained that their claim for storm damage under their home insurance 
policy with Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) was unfairly declined.
What happened
Ms H and Mr J made a claim to Aviva under their policy when high winds caused damage to 
their outbuilding. 
Aviva appointed a loss adjuster to review and validate the damage. Based on the report 
provided by the loss adjuster, Aviva decided to decline the claim. Aviva said the assessor 
has based his decision to decline on the condition of the external outbuilding. The roof is in a 
poor condition. The trusses inside the roof were showing signs of rot and there was rust on 
the sheets on the roof. The high winds have highlighted that there was a defect with the roof 
and therefore it has come away from the building because of its condition. This is not a one-
off incident of storm related damage and due to general wear and tear of the roof and has 
happened gradually over a period of time.
Ms H and Mr J disputed the outcome and said the wooden trusses werent rotten and 
advised it was the storm that caused the damage. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought it was most likely that the 
storm had highlighted weaknesses in the structure of the outbuilding, rather than it been the 
main cause of the damage, so he though Aviva had been fair in declining the claim in line 
with the policy terms. Ms H and Mr J disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
Aviva hasnt disputed the weather at the time of the incident. Using resources our service 
has access to, I have reviewed the weather conditions in the vicinity of Ms H and Mr Js 
property on the date they said the damage occurred. The wind gusts were over 60 miles per 
hour, so I am satisfied storm conditions were present. So, I will move to the next question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
I think its possible that high winds of this force could potentially cause some damage to an 
outbuilding that is made from wooden trusses and metal sheeting, so I will consider the next 
question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Ms H and Mr J have shown a storm was evident at the time of the reported incident, but 
Aviva has declined the claim because it said wear and tear was the main cause of the 
damage and the storm merely highlighted this pre-existing weakness. I have checked the 
relevant sections from the policy to understand what it sets out about the cover. In the 
general conditions on page 25, it states
Your duty to prevent loss or damage
You and any other person this insurance applies to must take all reasonable precautions to 
prevent accidents, loss or damage.
You must keep property that is insured under your policy in good condition.
Your policy is intended to cover you against unforeseen events like fire or theft. It does not 
cover wear and tear or damage which happens gradually over a period of time.
As Aviva have relied on an exclusion clause within the policy to decline the claim it needs to 
provide evidence to support its decision. If its able to provide evidence, then Im likely to say 
it has been fair in declining the claim. Thats because the policy sets out requirements for Ms 
H and Mr J to keep their buildings in good order and is clear it doesnt cover wear and tear.
I have reviewed the loss adjusters report that Aviva used to make its decision. The report 
sets out that there were signs of wear and tear in rotting timbers and rusted sheets on the 
roof. The loss adjusters report contained photographs. The photographs support the 
commentary provided by the surveyor, so I find the report persuasive. The loss adjuster also 
commented there was no specific evidence of one-off storm damage to the building or any 
other neighbouring buildings.
I think Aviva has been reasonable in relying on the report from an expert to make its 
decision. Ive also noted that Aviva had the outcome reviewed by its technical team when Ms 
H and Mr J initially disputed the decision. I think it was a reasonable approach to get a 
second opinion. This opinion agreed with Avivas original decision.
I havent seen any other evidence provided to show the cause of the damage wasnt wear 
and tear or that it was more likely the storm was the main cause. Therefore, without any 
other evidence, I dont uphold this complaint. I think Aviva has been fair in declining the 
claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Aviva Insurance Limited 
to do anything more.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman