DRN-2252981
The complaint
Mrs B complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc refused to transfer funds she held in a 
savings account to another business. 
What happened
Mrs B had a Select Access Saver 10 (SAS10) account with Co-op. The SAS10 account 
terms say customers can withdraw their money over the phone via a linked account, in 
branch or by post. The terms say that to withdraw the funds over the phone, they would 
need to be paid into a linked current account. The terms also said that cash, cheques or an 
internal transfer could be arranged in branch or over the phone. 
In June 2020 Mrs B called Co-op and asked it to transfer her funds to another business that 
offers savings accounts. But Co-op said Mrs Bs request couldnt be met as it wasnt in line 
with the account terms. Co-op transferred Mrs Bs funds to her current account and waived 
the £25 fee. Mrs B asked to close her account. 
Following Mrs Bs complaint, Co-op responded on 9 September 2020 but didnt agree an 
error had been made. Co-op said it had acted in line with the its terms and that Mrs B had 
requested a service it didnt provide. Mrs B went on to refer her complaint to our service and 
it was passed to an investigator. The investigator thought Co-op had dealt with Mrs Bs 
complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mrs B asked to appeal and said there 
was a daily transfer limit of £30,000 once her funds had been paid into her current account 
which impacted how long it took to transfer the money to the new business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Co-op didnt transfer Mrs Bs funds as she asked. But I can only uphold a 
complaint if I find that a business has made a mistake or treated its customer unfairly. Ive 
looked at the type of account Mrs B held along with the relevant terms to see if Co-op acted 
as it should have. 
The terms are clear in explaining how savers can withdraw their money. The terms say that 
Co-op can transfer a savers funds to a current account and thats what it did for Mrs B. But 
theres nothing in the terms that says Co-op will transfer the funds to a new savings account 
provider. The only option for transferring the funds set out in the terms is to a current 
account held by the customer. So whilst I understand it would have been easier for Mrs B for 
Co-op to transfer her savings on, thats not a service it ever offered. 
As Co-ops terms didnt offer to transfer funds on to a new savings account provider, Im not 
persuaded it made an error by declining Mrs Bs request. 
Mrs B says she lost out on interest with her new savings account provider because her bank 
account had a £30,000 a day transfer limit. But the current account and new savings account 
arent held with Co-op and Im satisfied its not responsible for the arrangements those 
businesses have in place. 
Co-op processed Mrs Bs transfer to her bank account and, as a gesture of goodwill, waived 
the £25 fee. I think that shows Co-op was trying to help Mrs B resolve the situation. I havent 
found that Co-op made a mistake or treated Mrs B unfairly. As a result, Im not telling it to 
take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman