DRN-3859675
The complaint
Mr G complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DGI) and their failure to provide 
him with a like for like replacement washing machine after he made a claim on his appliance 
insurance policy.
What happened
In 2020, Mr G insured his washing machine on a policy provided by DGI. Unfortunately, in 
late January 2022, this washing machine broke down. So, he contacted DGI to make a claim 
on this policy. 
DGI initially informed Mr G that they were unable to schedule a repair until 2 February. But 
due to Mr Gs individual circumstances and the impact this delay would have, DGI agreed to 
replace the washing machine instead as a replacement would be received sooner.
Mr G and DGI discussed the replacement on a phone call, and DGI confirmed the 
replacement was of the same make, but an upgraded version. Mr G agreed to this 
replacement and it was fitted soon after. 
But Mr G was unhappy with the replacement and so, he raised a complaint. Mr G explained 
the replacement machine didnt have a 600-spin speed cycle, like his previous machine. So, 
Mr G wanted DGI to uplift and change the replacement for a model that had this spin cycle 
available.
DGI responded to the complaint and didnt agree. They thought theyd acted fairly, in line 
with the terms of Mr Gs policy, when providing Mr G with his replacement washing machine. 
And as this washing machine was in full working order, they didnt think they should replace 
it. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr G remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained in the call 
where a replacement was ordered, Mr G explained he wanted a replacement to have a spin 
speed of 1200 as this was the speed he used. And on the same call, DGI explained the 
replacement machine had various settings which used a default setting of 1200. And our 
investigator explained the policy made it clear a replacement wouldnt necessarily be like for 
like, nor did they think this wouldve been possible due to the age of Mr Gs original machine. 
So, our investigator thought DGI have acted fairly and because of this, they didnt think DGI 
needed to do anything more. Mr G remained unhappy with this response, so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr G. I dont doubt Mr G 
assumed the replacement washing machine hed receive would allow him to wash his 
clothes in the manner hed become accustomed to. So, when he received the washing 
machine and he discovered it didnt allow for a spin speed of 600, I can understand why Mr 
G would feel as though the replacement wasnt what he believed to be an adequate 
replacement. And because of this, I can understand why Mr G would want DGI to provide 
him with another machine that gave him this option.
But for me to say DGI should take this action, or compensate Mr G in some other way, I first 
need to be satisfied that DGI have done something wrong when replacing the washing 
machine. So, Id need to be satisfied that DGI failed to act in line with the terms of the policy 
held when providing a replacement. Or, if I think DGI did act within these terms, that they 
acted unfairly when doing so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms of the insurance policy Mr G had. And I think its important to note the 
insurance policy was designed to provide Mr G with unlimited repairs to his washing 
machine, and that a replacement would usually only be considered if a repair wasnt 
possible. In this situation, I can see DGI agreed to replace the washing machine without 
attempting a repair, in order to recognise Mr Gs own personal circumstances and his need 
for a working washing machine as soon as reasonably possible. I think this shows DGI 
acting fairly towards Mr G, as they deviated away from their usual process as a gesture of 
good will.
And where a machine is being replaced, the terms state we will arrange to replace your 
product with one of a same or similar make and technical specification. I think this term 
makes it reasonably clear that DGI had a duty to ensure the replacement machine was of a 
similar make and specification. But crucially, I dont think this means DGI were obliged to 
replace Mr Gs original machine with an exact replacement.
DGI have confirmed an exact replacement wasnt possible, as Mr Gs original machine was 
around eight years old and models had been upgraded since then due to technological 
advancements. Due to the age of Mr Gs machine, I think DGIs reasoning is both plausible 
and reasonable. So, I dont think DGI have done anything wrong when not providing an 
exact replacement. But I would expect this replacement to be similar.
DGI have confirmed the replacement machine was a machine of the same brand. And due 
to technological advancements, the machine Mr G received was an upgraded model with a 
superior max spin speed of 1400, rather than 1200 originally. So, I think DGI acted within the 
terms of the policy as Mr G received a replacement of similar make and specification.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether DGI have acted fairly when 
doing so. Mr G doesnt think they have, as the replacement machine doesnt have a 
minimum spin setting of 600.
But I dont think DGI were made aware of Mr Gs requirement for this minimum speed 
setting. Ive listened to the call between Mr G and DGI where they agreed to the replacement 
machine. And on this call, Mr G stated clearly he wanted a machine that had a spin speed 
setting of 1200, as this was the setting he used. And Ive seen the replacement machines 
manual, which confirms there are several settings where this spin speed is available. So, I 
think DGI provided a replacement that ensured they met Mr Gs requirements, while also 
ensuring it met the terms of the policy Mr G held.  Because of the above, and the fact the machine Mr G received is confirmed to be in working 
order without any faults, I dont think DGI have done anything wrong. Nor do I think theyve 
acted unfairly. Because of this, I dont think DGI need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr G was hoping for. And I appreciate this leaves Mr G 
with a machine that doesnt contain the minimum setting he was hoping for. But the policy he 
held wasnt intended to ensure Mr G received an exact replacement with the exact same 
settings and options. It was instead intended to provide Mr G with a similar model and 
specification, which I think Mr G has received on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman