DRN-2817524
The complaint
Miss V complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on her motor
insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules (DISP). One of those rules is that  before we can deal with a complaint  a
consumer mustve made the complaint to the financial firm and waited up to eight weeks for
a final response.
The first owner of a hatchback car registered it in 2007. Miss V acquired it in about June
2017 with a recorded mileage of about 150,000.
For the year from June 2019, Miss V renewed her car insurance policy with Admiral. She
agreed to pay the premium for the year by instalments. The policy covered liability to third
parties and damage to Miss Vs car. Each claim would be subject to an excess totalling
£225.00.
Unfortunately, on 15 February 2020, Miss Vs car and a third partys vehicle were involved in
an accident on a roundabout. Miss V had a dashcam that recorded images. She called
Admiral and it said it would ring her back  but it didnt. Miss V had to contact Admiral again
to report the circumstances of the incident and the extent of damage to her car.
Admiral said it might settle liability 50/50 between Miss V and the third party.
Admiral said it was likely that Miss Vs car was a total loss, beyond economic repair. But she
wanted to keep her car.
On about 19 February 2020, Admiral cancelled the policy. By a letter dated 19 February
2020, Admiral said it would pay the following:
pre-accident value of the car £596.00
less policy excess £225.00
less balance of premium  £ 83.28
less salvage   £ 71.52
total £216.20
Miss V got a garage to quote for repairs.
On 25 February 2020, Admiral sent Miss V a cheque for £25.00 compensation.
In a webchat in late February 2020, Miss V complained to Admiral about how it had dealt
with her and her claim. Admiral listed her points of complaint.
On about 9 March 2020, Admiral paid Miss V a cheque for the £216.20.
Admiral wrote a final response dated 6 April 2020. It recorded 12 points of complaint from
Miss W including the final one as follows:
12. We cancelled your policy without consent, meaning you paid an additional
instalment. You were not prewarned your policy would be cancelled. You are
concerned you were driving a car with no insurance cover
The final response upheld some of the 12 points. In particular, it increased the figures for the
pre-accident valuation. It also upheld points that it hadnt rung Miss V back or sent her a link
to upload her dashcam images. Admiral increased the £25.00 compensation to £75.00.
At the time of the final response, Admiral said it had put Miss Vs claim to the third party. But
Admiral still thought liability should be split 50/50.
Miss V brought her complaint to us on 6 April 2020.
On about 9 April 2020, Admiral sent Miss V a cheque for £451.37.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that
Admiral couldve handled Miss Vs claim better, but it had done enough to put things right.
Admiral wrote another final response dated 26 February 2021.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss V 
and to Admiral on 14 April 2021. I summarise my findings:
I couldnt consider new complaints arising after the complaint in late February 2020 - 
or after the final response in April 2020. 
I didnt find that Admiral treated Miss V unfairly by deciding  without a physical 
inspection  that her car was beyond economic repair.
Subject to any further information from Miss V or from Admiral, my provisional decision was 
that I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Admiral acknowledged the provisional decision and has no further comment to make.
Miss V disagrees with the provisional decision. She says, in summary, that:
She was asked by Admiral to get a repair quote, a week after they cancelled her 
policy. She didnt drive her car to the garage, the mechanic came to her place to 
assess the damage and provide a repair quote. She wasn't aware the policy was 
cancelled at the time and she hadn't driven the car to the garage, as the mechanic 
offered to come to the house. The car was insured and MOTd on 5 May, when the 
garage nearer her home recovered the vehicle from her address, repaired it, and put 
it through the MOT inspection. The actual repair cost less than the quote Admiral 
asked her to provide (she still doesn't understand why they asked her to provide a 
repair quote).
Admiral's Car Insurance Guide Section 1: Damage to your car (page 7) states as follows:
"What we will pay
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either:
- pay to repair your car, or
- pay a cash sum to replace the damaged car or item. We may reduce the 
settlement, or ask you to contribute towards the repair costs, if the parts 
replaced were already worn or damaged or for audio/visual equipment that 
has been removed from your car.
A decision will be made based on the garage/engineers recommendation" 
That never happened, as nobody had seen her car on 19 February 2020 when her 
policy got cancelled, just 3 days after the claim was opened (as nobody registered 
her claim on 15 February, when she  called from the accident spot and asked for 
advice and to file a claim, so she had to call back one day later, after waiting for 
Admiral the whole of 15 February 2020 to call her back, as the agent  promised). No 
garage/engineer has seen/assessed the damage to her car on 19 February 2020, 
when the policy got cancelled. None from Admiral side and none private arranged by 
her.
She cannot understand why the later add-ons to this complaint aren't sustained, as 
there are consequences from this mishandled claim. Even after 1 year passed, she 
still has to deal with the reminisces of these mistakes and mishandles.
Our math doesn't add up: her car was insured for £1,700.00 when she completed the 
insurance form online. Admiral offered her a bit less than £600.00 (after all their 
deductions came up to £216.20) and then they came up with another £451.37 
cheque. In total, shes got three cheques - one for £25.00, one for £216.20 and the 
third of £451.37. 
Just like Admiral, we refuse to investigate the discrimination part of her complaint, as 
we most probably think that being a woman and having a foreign accent hasn't had 
anything to do with the way her complaint was mishandled. Also, the details of her 
financial position and if she could or not repair her car has nothing to do with this: she 
had a contract with Admiral, they've provided her a service and she paid an agreed 
amount of money in return. They broke their side of the deal and she complained 
about this. This reinforces the discrimination part of this complaint, as her financial 
status shouldn't have anything to do with the contract between her and Admiral. 
Would she have been treated more favourable if she had owned a luxury car make? 
The fact that she chose to own a certain brand of car shouldn't be a reason for 
discrimination.
The reason she waited for a long period of time to fix her car is because she waited 
for some guidance on what to expect from her insurance company. She hired a 
private lawyer for the personal injuries claim, as Admirals law firm refused to deal 
with it, stating that she had no legal coverage on her policy, even though shed paid 
for it and was part of her agreement with Admiral. Also 10 days after the accident she 
bought another car so she can get to her office, as not having a car was hard to 
commute to work (her office was 4 miles away from home and took her over an hour 
to get there and more than an hour to return home).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scope of complaint in February 2020
I have mentioned one of the DISP rules. The webchat listed the points of complaint in 
February 2020. It didnt include any of the following points:
that Admiral hadnt confirmed the cancellation in writing.
that Admiral didnt send Miss V the NCB proof.
that in consequence Miss V told her new insurer she had 3 years NCB when she only 
had 2 years - and it increased her premium.
that since the third party admits liability, Admiral should refund the £225.00 excess.
that Admiral shouldve helped her with her injury claim.
So I make no findings on any of these later complaint points. I cant consider new complaints 
arising after the complaint in late February 2020 - or after the final response in April 2020.
Repair or Payment of pre-accident value
Miss V says her car was insured for £1,700.00. But I find that it was insured up to its pre-
accident market value. 
The policy terms allowed Admiral to decide whether to repair the vehicle or to pay its pre-
accident market value. the policy terms suggested that Admiral would make a decision 
based on a recommendation from a garage or engineer. But I consider that this includes an 
in-house engineer who may not carry out a physical inspection.
Higher cost repairs are more economic for higher value vehicles.
Miss Vs car was over ten years old. Its recorded mileage was over 160,000. Its MOT was
due to expire in late March 2020. Miss V reported damage to a front wing and headlight. So I
dont find that Admiral treated her unfairly by deciding  without a physical inspection  that
it wouldnt repair her car.
Having made that decision and cancelled the policy, Admiral had no reason to ask Miss V to 
get a quote for repairs. So  whatever her recollection - I find it more likely that it was Miss V 
who wanted to ask a garage for a quote. It estimated a repair cost of over £1,300.00.
Cancellation
The policy terms included the following:
If your car is beyond economic repair, all cover, including the driving of other cars
extension if applicable, will be cancelled for you and any other drivers on the policy.
In my view thats clear and not unusual. But I would expect an insurer to offer to reinstate the
policy to cover a replacement vehicle.
From the call recording, I find that Admiral said the following:
Now that the vehicle is uneconomical to repair, the policy itself will just be cancelled
including any driving other cars extension, you may have. You can reinstate your
policy if you buy a new car as long as you have more than 30 days remaining.Miss V says she didnt hear that properly. But  from the call recording  Im satisfied that
Admiral had told her it would cancel the policy.
Miss V has told us that she took out a new insurance policy. So she mustve known Admiral 
had cancelled its policy. From what shes told us, I think the new policy started on about 22
February 2020.
From what shes said, I think Miss V took out the new policy before she got the car repaired.
She didnt ask Admiral to reinstate its policy and I wouldnt expect it to reinstate cover for a
car that it had written off and that hadnt been repaired.
So I dont consider that Admiral treated Miss V unfairly by cancelling the policy (and not
reinstating it).
In line with my comments about scope, I havent made any finding on whether Admiral
confirmed the cancellation  or any finding on the consequences of not doing so.
Payment of Admirals premium
Admirals policy terms included the following:
We will deduct any outstanding premium and charges owed from any claim
settlement we make to you.
In my view thats clear and not unusual. As Miss V had made a claim, I dont find it unfair
that she had to pay the premium for the year  not just the instalments for the period before
the cancellation.
Admirals final response in May 2020
My understanding of Admirals revised figures is as follows:
pre-accident value of the car £1,140.00
interest £       2.45
compensation £     75.00
less policy excess £   225.00
less balance of premium £     83.28
less salvage £   216.60
sub-total £   692.57
less paid £     25.00
less paid £   216.20
total £   451.37
Pre-Accident Value
Miss V had complained about the initial valuation. In its final response in April 2020, Admiral
accepted that it should increase its valuation from £596.00 to £1,140.00.
Applying our usual approach including use of the trade guides  Im satisfied that its
valuation of £1,140.00 was fair.
Salvage
If the car was beyond economic repair, Admirals policy terms provided the following:Once we make a payment to you, your car will become our property.
In my view thats clear and not unusual.
So  as Miss V wanted to keep the damaged car  Admiral would deduct a salvage
payment.
Admiral increased the figure for salvage, but I dont think it made the deduction twice. I find
the salvage deduction is within the range that I find fair and reasonable.
Loss of use of the car
The policy didnt entitle Miss V to a courtesy car if hers was beyond economic repair.
In response to the provisional decision, Miss V has said she bought another car ten days 
after the accident, so in about late February 2020.
Admirals payment on 9 March 2020 was unfairly low. It wasnt until about 9 April 2020 that
Admiral made a further payment based on a fair pre-accident value. By then, pandemic
restrictions had taken effect.
From an invoice for about £325.00, I see that on about 5 May 2020, a garage collected Miss
Vs car from her home, replaced the battery and adjusted the steering and tracking. I find it
likely that the car became driveable. Miss V hasnt given enough details of her financial
position to show that she couldnt afford to make her car driveable sooner.
So I dont find Admiral responsible for her loss of use of the car.
From an invoice for about £545.00, I see that on about 20 May 2020, a different garage fixed
the wing, bumper and headlight.
Third Party
Its usual for an insurer to record a fault claim against its policyholder unless and until that
insurer recovers its outlay from a third party.
Admirals policy terms included the following:
We are entitled to:
o conduct the defence or settlement of any claim on your behalf
o take legal action over any claim in your name or the name of any person
insured on the policy for our own benefit
o admit negligence for any accident or claim on your behalf
The effect was that  on the question of liability for an accident involving a third party 
Admirals view would prevail over the policyholders view.
Unlike a court, we dont hear evidence from each driver and decide the extent to which either
of them is responsible for causing damage. But we do consider whether the insurer has
applied the policy terms fairly.
Im satisfied that Admirals assessment of liability as 50/50 was based on a reasonable and
proportionate investigation including Miss Vs dashcam footage.In any event Admiral maintained Miss Vs claim against the third party. And from what she
says, her claim succeeded.
So I dont consider that Admiral treated Miss V unfairly in its handling of the claim against the
third party.
Communication
I find that Admiral didnt always ring Miss V back when it said it would. And it shouldve been
clearer about uploading the dashcam images.
Discrimination
I dont doubt that Miss V felt that Admiral was discriminating against her. But, from my review 
of the correspondence and the call recordings, I dont find that Admiral said anything 
inappropriate to Miss V. And Im satisfied that Admiral wouldve reached the same outcome 
for a claim by any other policyholder with the same circumstances.
Conclusion
Miss V was in a difficult and unfamiliar situation.
Admiral shouldve paid Miss V more money sooner. And Ive found shortcomings under the
heading of Communication.
But Im satisfied that  by its final response in April 2020  Admiral did enough to try to put
things right for Miss V. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to do any more 
in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman