DRN-2709632
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (trading as Post Office Financial Services - 
POFS) unfairly charged him a fee for surrendering a bond he had with it before maturity.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr M took out a three year online bond with a fixed interest rate of just over 
2% and invested £20,000. The maturity date of the bond was 2 August 2021. 
The bond had terms and conditions and, in particular, withdrawals from the bond before the 
maturity date were not allowed. Section 25 of the terms said that POFS could allow 
withdrawals on a discretionary basis, but that this would be subject to a breakage fee. It 
also explained how the breakage fee would be calculated. For a three year bond, the 
breakage fee would amount to 180 days gross interest. 
In March 2019 Mr M contacted POFS and requested to withdraw his money early. In short, 
personal circumstances required him to use the money in the bond to help maintain the 
costs of the home he was living in. Mr M said that he understood a fee would be applicable, 
but hoped that it would be kept to a minimum as far as possible. 
POFS wrote to Mr M on 23 March 2019 and explained that he would incur a breakage fee of 
£207.12 for withdrawing his funds early  and asked him to confirm if, despite this, he still 
wanted to go ahead. Mr M spoke to someone from POFS shortly after receiving this letter, 
and whilst acknowledging hed have to pay the fee, agreed to surrender his investment early. 
On 10 April 2019 he received a letter from POFS incorrectly telling him that the breakage fee 
equated to 90 days interest on the bond value if closed early  in fact the £207.12 breakage 
fee amounted to 180 days interest as per the terms and conditions of the account.  
POFS looked into Mr Ms concerns. In short, it didnt agree it was wrong for it to have 
charged Mr M a breakage fee, and thought its terms were clear that withdrawals before the 
maturity date would not generally be allowed. It said that he was sent the terms when he 
opened the bond which explained this, and was also told in March 2019 precisely how much 
the breakage fee would be if he surrendered the bond. POFS acknowledged that staff 
werent as helpful as they couldve been when speaking to him about this issue (and in 
particular how or when the breakage fee would apply), but it considered that overall it had 
correctly applied the breakage fee in line with the terms. Mr M remained unhappy and some 
further correspondence ensued. POFS therefore sent a subsequent letter in which it 
acknowledged the incorrect information he was provided in its letter of 10 April 2019. As a 
result, it offered him £75 compensation. Mr M didnt accept this offer and referred his 
complaint to this service. In short, he considered the terms gave POFS discretion to apply 
the breakage fee, and therefore it couldve chosen not to apply it, or to reduce it. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. In short, he considered that:
Mr M was aware of the terms of the fixed term bond as well as the maturity date 
when he first took it out. 
After he made the request to surrender the bond early, POFS wrote to him and told 
him how much he would be charged should he decide to go ahead with the early 
surrender. 
In the phone call Mr M had with POFS following this letter, he accepted the breakage 
fee and was clearly aware of it. 
Although the terms gave POFS discretion on when to apply to this charge, this was 
something for POFS to consider on a case by case basis. It clearly didnt agree that 
in Mr Ms case that fee should be waived. The investigator didnt consider that was 
unfair or unreasonable. 
He thought POFS offer of £75 for the incorrect information Mr M was provided in the 
April 2019 letter to be fair and reasonable. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator, and so the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ive read Mr Ms detailed comments in relation to this complaint, and fully 
understand the reasons behind his dissatisfaction with POFSs decision to charge him the 
breakage fee. Whilst Ive not elaborated on the detailed reasons he gave to POFS for why 
he needed to surrender the bond early, its clear to me that Mr M has been under significant 
stress for a number of years  and the need to support his family was paramount in his 
decision to withdraw his money from the bond before maturity. 
But despite having an enormous amount of sympathy for Mr Ms difficult circumstances, my 
role requires me to assess the facts of this case impartially. And whilst I appreciate Mr M will 
find this disappointing, I dont agree the terms of the account are particularly ambiguous, or 
give a reasonable impression that a breakage fee wont be incurred if a bond is surrendered 
early. 
Ultimately the terms are clear that withdrawals are generally not allowed. The initial 
information Mr M received in the form of a key information brochure specifically warned him 
about this. It said that [y]ou cant make withdrawals from your Online Bond so you need to 
be sure you wont need access to your money during the fixed term. And it says that only in 
exceptional circumstances would he be allowed to close the Online Bond early. It further 
says that POFS would normally charge you a breakage fee to close your Online Bond early 
and refers to the terms and conditions for how the breakage fee is calculated. 
So in my view it was clear to Mr M at the time that he may not be able to withdraw his money 
early and, if he was allowed to, hed probably have to pay a breakage fee. 
The terms and conditions also set this information out in more detail. Under the heading 
Withdrawals, section 25 says:
You may not withdraw the funds from your Account prior to maturity. However, we may 
allow you to do so at our discretion due to your financial hardship or other exceptional 
circumstances, but this may be subject to payment of a breakage fee.
Section 26 then goes on to explain how the breakage fee is calculated and, in Mr Ms case, 
as the term of his bond was longer than 12 months, but shorter than 60 months, the 
breakage fee would amount to 180 days loss of gross interest.I understand Mr M says that the term is unclear because it says a breakage fee may be 
applied  but Im not persuaded by this. I think all the information available to Mr M indicated 
that the breakage fee would usually be applied  but its understandable that POFS would 
give itself some discretion. I dont agree this means its term was unclear. 
POFS has explained that in Mr Ms case, it did allow him to withdraw his funds early  even 
though it didnt have to. 
Mr M asked POFS on a number of occasions to consider reducing or waiving the breakage 
fee. I agree with Mr M that the terms do give POFS some flexibility  and so in this regard I 
agree he was given slightly incorrect information by staff who seemed to indicate the 
breakage fee would always be applied. 
The evidence Ive seen shows that POFS clearly did consider whether to waive or reduce 
the breakage fee, and it decided not to. Mr M disagrees with that decision, but POFS has 
explained that there are only very limited circumstances for when it would agree to waive the 
breakage fee, because it helped it to cover the administrative costs around closing an 
account like this early. It gave the example of where the bondholder has died before the end 
of the term as a circumstance when it would consider not applying the fee. POFS said that it 
didnt consider the circumstances that Mr M described to fall in that category, and for that 
reason didnt agree to waive or reduce the breakage fee that was applicable. I dont think 
that decision was inherently unreasonable or unfair. And as Ive indicated, it was clearly 
entitled to charge this fee under the terms. 
Furthermore, as Ive highlighted above, Mr M was aware that this would happen if he closed 
the bond early  and was given the precise figure in March. I understand that he was then 
given incorrect information about how this was calculated in a letter he received in April 
(after the bond had been surrendered), and for that POFS offered Mr M £75. I consider that 
fair and reasonable compensation. 
But overall, Im not persuaded Mr M was misled into thinking hed be entitled to withdraw his 
bond early whenever he wanted, or that he could avoid paying the breakage fee. He quite 
understandably asked POFS to consider whether it might waive or reduce this fee  but 
POFS was entitled, in my view, to insist on the full amount as specified in the terms (i.e. 180 
days loss of gross interest). 
I understand that Mr M initially declined the £75 POFS offered  but this offer is still open to 
him. In my view thats a fair offer given the incorrect information he received at what was 
clearly an upsetting time, and so thats what I award below. However ,for the reasons Ive 
given, Im satisfied POFS need not do any more. 
Mr M has also raised other concerns in relation to a similar complaint by his wife. Im not 
able to address or comment on those concerns in this decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (trading as Post Office Financial Services) 
must pay Mr M £75 within 28 days of when we tell it he has accepted this final decision. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman