DRN-3249092
The complaint
Mr H complains that Scottish Equitable Plc, trading as Aegon, delayed a transfer from a 
Group Personal Pension (GPP) he held with it, to a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), 
he had also set up with Aegon.
As a result of the delays Mr H says he was out of a rising market for a considerable and 
unnecessary amount of time. In order to put matters right Mr H wants Aegon to compensate 
him for any investment loss he has suffered as a result of avoidable delays on its part. 
What happened
Mr H holds a GPP with Aegon. I understand that, following a recommendation by his 
financial adviser, Mr H decided to transfer 75% of the funds held in his GPP, around 
£732,000, to a SIPP, also held with Aegon.
A completed transfer form was submitted to Aegon on 27 October 2020. The money from 
Mr Hs GPP was received into the SIPP on 10 November 2020 and it was invested shortly 
afterwards.
Mr H complained to Aegon about the length of time it had taken to complete the transfer. He 
said he felt that it should have been possible for the transfer to have been completed and his 
funds invested by no later than 3 November 2020.
Aegon did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said its internal service level agreement allowed 
up to ten working days for processing a transfer request and a further three to five working 
days for funds to clear. As Mr Hs money had been transferred within these timescales it said 
it didnt think it had unduly delayed the transfer to his SIPP.
Mr H was not satisfied with Aegons response and referred his complaint to this service. He 
said; there were numerous delays which took place and I was out the market (a rising 
market) for a considerable and unnecessary amount of time and thus suffered financial 
detriment ... They hide behind an SLA which I have not signed up to, know nothing about 
This simply allows Aegon to make as many errors as they like as long as they are within 
their purported 10 day SLA.
Having considered Mr Hs complaint, our investigator said they felt Aegon had delayed the 
transfer. They noted that as the transfer Mr H had requested was over £250,000 Aegon had 
carried out additional checks before processing the request. Our investigator said they felt 
this was reasonable. 
But they noted there was a delay in carrying out these additional checks. In particular, Aegon 
said that when Mr Hs transfer request was reviewed by a more senior member of staff on 2 
November 2020, the checker was unable to authorise the transfer payment. Aegon said this 
was because there was an outside trigger on the policy that needed to be removed before 
the transfer could be authorised. It later came to light that the trigger was caused because 
the monthly charge for Mr Hs GPP fell due on 1 November 2020. Aegon said this had 
prevented the transfer being authorised as it would not have been possible for an accurate 
transfer value to be calculated.
Aegon said the trigger was removed on 4 November 2020, and the additional checks were 
then carried out on 5 November 2020. Our investigator noted that this delayed the transfer of 
Mr Hs funds by 3 working days.
In order to put matters right, they said that Aegon should calculate whether Mr H had lost out 
financially as a result of this delay. If Mr H had lost out, they said Aegon should put Mr H in 
the position he would have been in, if his fund transfer had not been delayed.
Aegon did not accept our investigators view. It said, it had a service standard in place for 
completing transfers out  this timescale (of 10 working days) was met. Our payment 
authorisation check identified a trigger to collect the monthly charge, which became due the 
day after the item of work was passed to checking. I dont believe this represents an error on 
Aegons part, rather unfortunate timing. And it also didnt prevent the transfer out from being 
completed within our normal timescale. With this in mind, were unable to agree with your 
view and I would be grateful if this could be referred to an ombudsman for a further review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same view as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Aegons position is that because the transfer of Mr Hs funds from his GPP to his SIPP was 
completed within its normal timescale, it shouldnt have to compensate Mr H for any delays 
in the transfer process. 
It is not in dispute that the transfer request was made on 27 October 2020. Mr Hs funds 
were sold on 29 October 2020, and a BACS transfer of funds to the SIPP was approved on 5 
November 2020. The funds were received and allocated to Mr Hs SIPP on 10 November 
2020 and invested shortly afterwards.
What is in dispute is whether Aegon should compensate Mr H for any loss he has suffered 
as a result of the delay it caused as, despite the delay in approving the transfer, it was still 
completed within Aegons normal timescale. 
The industry regulator says that businesses must treat their customers fairly and act with 
due skill, care and diligence. It is not the case that if a business meets an internal service 
level agreement it must have met the requirement to treat its customer fairly.
It appears that, in this instance, Aegons processes did not adequately take account of the 
requirement to treat Mr H fairly. I dont think it was fair for it to have delayed processing 
Mr Hs transfer request, simply because of the way its own internal processes had been set 
up.
Aegon says that it couldnt process the transfer request and take a monthly fee at the same 
time. It appears this was due to its own internal processes, rather than any regulatory or 
legal requirement.
It is unclear to me why it took Aegon three working days to address the internal trigger and I 
note that Aegon confirmed to this service that;The trigger was resolved without IT input, it wasnt a stuck trigger rather just an OS trigger 
that hadnt cleared.
So, Aegons earlier claim to this service, that it needed to fix (the trigger) before completing 
the transfer was incorrect. 
By failing to establish what the trigger was that was preventing the approval of Mr Hs 
transfer request from being approved on 2 November 2020, I think Aegon failed to treat Mr H 
fairly. I dont think there was any legitimate reason for Aegon to delay approving the transfer. 
It appears it was simply that its own internal processes had raised a trigger.
In reaching this view I have taken into account that Mr H was moving a substantial amount of 
money and, not unsurprisingly, wanted the transfer to be processed without delay. 
If Aegon was unable to over-ride its internal processes on 2 November 2020 and approve 
the transfer due to the trigger, I think it should have taken steps at that time to establish the 
cause of the trigger and to have checked whether it needed to wait for its IT department to 
remove the trigger, before the transfer request could be approved. I dont think it would have 
been particularly onerous for Aegon to establish that the cause of the trigger was a monthly 
fee and to have found a work-around to its internal process, rather than delaying the transfer 
of Mr Hs money for three days.
Having carefully considered this matter I dont think Aegon treated Mr H fairly when it 
delayed the transfer of his money by three working days, due to what it has referred to as 
rather unfortunate timing, regardless of any internal service level agreement it might have.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if Aegon had not delayed his transfer by three working days.
I think Mr H would have invested in the same way and Im satisfied that what Ive set out 
below is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What must Aegon do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Aegon must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Aegon should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Aegon is unable to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr H would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aegon deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. Aegon should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
ARC SIPP Still exists 
and liquidActual
investments
bought on
earlier transfer
date and 
assuming
all subsequent
switches were
made on the
same date3 working
days earlier 
than actual 
date of initial 
investmentsDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the ARC SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Aegon totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr Hs transfer to the ARC SIPP would have taken place 3 working days earlier if 
Aegon had not caused an unnecessary delay. The delay resulted in Mr H being out of the market for 3 working days.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Scottish Equitable plc (trading as Aegon) 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Scottish Equitable plc, trading as Aegon, should provide details of its calculation to Mr H in 
a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman