DRN-3949032
The complaint
Ms C complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax had failed to properly address 
her request to send her a letter confirming a branch attendance in 2021.
What happened
In February 2022 Ms C contacted Halifax to request information about when copies of 
personal identification paperwork had been provided to a specific Halifax branch (in respect 
of adding herself as a party to her fathers account). She was told the branch would send this 
information to her. 
It is agreed by Halifax that there was attendance at the branch, and it isnt disputed that 
paperwork was provided to their branch in the summer of 2021.
In March 2022 Ms C contacted Halifax to say she hadnt received the information and she 
wanted to complain. Ms C told Halifax the paperwork had been taken into the branch on 2 
July 2021 and she set out her account of what had happened.
 
Halifax apologised to Ms C as they didnt think her request had been progressed to the 
branch. Halifax reassured Ms C this had now been done and paid Ms C £18 (as a refund of 
call costs) and £50 compensation, upholding her complaint.
In May 2022 Ms C contacted this service to tell us she had made a new complaint to Halifax 
about data. Ms C provided a summary setting out the details of the complaint she says was 
submitted to Halifax in March 2022. In this she describes what she said happened in a 
branch on 2 July 2021, and who shed spoken to.
Ms C told us that when she made a subject access request (SAR) to Halifax sometime after 
her visit on 2 July 2021, copies of the identification paperwork provided werent referenced, 
so she thought it must have been lost. Ms C didnt think Halifax had replied to this complaint.
Halifax sent us a copy of an email from a branch manager to a member of their customer 
service team in May 2022 confirming the manager had spoken to Ms C. The email says that 
the manager had let Ms C know that Halifax no longer had a copy of the paperwork as it had 
only been kept in line with General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and in any event was 
shredded after 30 days. The manager said in the email that Ms C wasnt happy but 
understood why this had happened.
An investigator at this service had some discussions with Ms C about the position and 
whether CCTV ought to be requested. Sometime later a new investigator was allocated this 
case.
Investigators initial view
The investigator didnt think Halifax ought to be asked to do anything further. He thought 
Halifax hadnt done anything wrong when they had destroyed the copies of identification 
documents provided, and this explained why the information wasnt available to Ms C. He 
had seen Halifax had contacted Ms C and explained this and why they couldnt provide the 
paperwork requested.
Matters following the investigators first view
Ms C said the investigator had incorrectly set out her complaint. She wanted her complaint 
to be accurately recorded and an appropriate response given.
In September 2022 Ms C confirmed to us she had contacted Halifax because she wanted to 
request a letter to confirm identification documentation had been provided to a branch. She 
told us Halifax had agreed to provide this letter, but they had never done so. Ms C thought 
they had gone on to deny any complaint had been made, despite having paid £68 in 
compensation and giving referral rights to this service. Ms C confirmed she was not 
complaining Halifax ought not to have destroyed the identification documents after they had 
been used for their intended purpose.
Ms C confirmed to us the information summarised above. She told us she originally 
contacted Halifax as she wanted evidence of the branch visit confirming the presentation of 
identification material. She says Halifax told her it would be simpler for the branch to send a 
letter confirming the visit and that she would receive this within seven days. She told us that 
to resolve this complaint she wanted Halifax to provide the letter previously requested.
Halifax told us that they agreed Ms C had contacted them and the reason why. But as the 
identification documents had been destroyed, they couldnt satisfy Ms Cs request (as they 
didnt have the information to confirm) and they could see the branch had already explained 
this to Ms C. They said this was why no letter had been sent. Halifax said they had paid 
compensation as they didnt think it had been reasonable for Ms C to have needed to chase 
this.
The investigator at this service let Ms C know he hadnt reached a conclusion yet on whether 
he thought Halifax ought to be required to provide a letter as she wanted, but that he would 
contact Halifax to see if they would now consider doing so.
Ms C wasnt happy the investigator hadnt concluded his thinking on whether Halifax ought 
to provide a letter and she wasnt happy because she felt Halifax had already had sufficient 
time to send a letter. Ms C noted that an ombudsman at this service had already considered 
there was no doubt there had been an attendance at a branch in 2021. So she wanted to 
know whether Halifax would acknowledge it, since we did.
In January 2023 Halifax provided us with a copy of a letter they had sent to Ms C in June 
2022. This followed Ms C contacting the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) in May 
2022 to raise concerns.
This letter outlines that Ms C had raised concerns around attendances at a branch with 
identification documents in around May 2021 and July 2021. Halifax go on to explain they 
didnt hold on to copies of the identification provided to the branch in July 2021 due to data 
protection requirements around destruction. So this was why it hadnt been available when a 
SAR was made.
The investigator sent Ms C a copy of this letter and explained he was satisfied Halifax had 
sufficiently acknowledged attendances at a branch and the provision of identification 
documents. He didnt think Halifax ought to be required to do anything further. He 
acknowledged Ms C had asked Halifax to send a letter on multiple occasions and 
understood it would have been frustrating for her to repeatedly ask for this. As Halifax had supplied a letter, he didnt think he needed to consider whether they had been required to do 
this and he didnt think the amount of compensation already paid ought to be increased.
Ms C thought the investigator had failed to distinguish between a branch visit in May 2021 
when she says no identification material was copied and a visit which she says took place on 
2 July 2021. She doesnt think the letter she agrees she was sent in June 2022 was 
appropriate as it fails to acknowledge she and her father went to a branch on 2 July 2021.
Ms C continues to stress Halifax agreed to send her a letter in the terms she wants, and she 
thinks Halifax ought to be required to provide such a letter. Ms C told us the ICO had told her 
that Halifax had no record of a visit in July 2021, and she provided a copy of a letter from the 
ICO. Ms C doesnt accept the compensation previously paid was in respect of this complaint.
The investigator didnt change his thinking. He didnt think Halifax disputed there had been a 
visit to the branch. Whilst he appreciated Halifax had said they would provide a letter 
confirming the visit, he didnt think that was something they had needed to offer, and he 
didnt intend to ask Halifax to do anything further.
The investigator hadnt seen anything to help him understand why Ms C wanted this letter, in 
particular since the visit wasnt disputed. He had seen Ms C said not receiving the letter was 
causing her distress, but he wasnt persuaded that Halifax needed to make any further 
payment of compensation based on what had been provided. The case was referred for an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
Ms C feels this issue has wasted her time and made her worried as she didnt know where 
her personal information had been stored. She told us she wanted a reply from Halifax telling 
her where the copy of her paperwork was and confirming her visit to the branch with her 
paperwork (providing the date and time).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding Ms Cs complaint about Halifax. I accept Halifaxs explanation they ought 
to have contacted Ms C sooner in 2022 following her initial contact in respect of this matter. I 
think their previous apology and payment of £50 compensation and £18 for phone call costs, 
was in part in respect of this complaint and was sufficient recognition for where their service 
was not what it ought to have been. 
I understand Ms C wants a letter confirming attendance at a branch in the summer of 2021 
when copies of documents were provided. I am the ombudsman who previously indicated 
that I accepted there was such a visit when considering a separate matter. So, I am well-
placed to decide this matter. Im satisfied that Halifax doesnt dispute this visit took place. 
Had Ms C or Halifax provided a copy of the letter Ms C received from Halifax in June 2022 
(or the letter from the ICO) sooner, this would only have confirmed my thinking on this.
Ms C spoke with an investigator previously about whether CCTV material ought to have 
been requested, apparently to demonstrate there was a branch visit. As Halifax dont deny a 
visit took place, or that the relevant account was made into a joint account shortly 
afterwards, I dont see that any request for CCTV would have been necessary or 
proportionate.
I appreciate Ms C says the letter provided in June 2022 by Halifax was not sufficient. I 
accept it does not contain the detail Ms C was looking for in terms of the visit. But this it does not mean the letter disputes there was a visit to a branch on 2 July 2021. I dont think this is 
the meaning of the letter. Nor does it mean I think a letter containing the type of detail Ms C 
says she requires can or ought to be provided by Halifax.
I havent seen anything that sufficiently explains why Ms C requires a letter. There is nothing 
to suggest the absence of any such letter has or will cause her loss or detriment. I am not 
persuaded Halifax ought to be required to provide any further letter in the circumstances of 
this complaint. Had I been asked to decide whether Halifax ought to be required to provide 
any letter in these circumstances I would have needed to be persuaded there was a good 
reason for this before I would have considered requiring Halifax to provide anything.
We are an informal dispute resolution service that is an alternative to the courts and 
ultimately it is a matter for this service to decide whether it has sufficient material on which to 
come to a fair and just outcome on a complaint. The relevance and weight to be attributed to 
everything provided on a case is for the decision maker. I am satisfied I have enough 
information and understanding of the issues to reach a fair and impartial outcome.
For completeness Ms Cs concerns about why copies of paperwork could not be provided, 
have been addressed elsewhere. I accept from Ms C that she isnt saying her paperwork 
ought not to have been destroyed. I have also seen that the destruction has impacted what 
further information Halifax say they can provide. I dont consider Halifax have acted 
unreasonably in respect of what they have provided.
In reaching my decision I have taken account of the fact that Ms C says the visit to the 
branch and the provision of paperwork was part of the application for her fathers Halifax 
account to be made into a joint account. It is confirmed this happened in the weeks that 
followed. 
I have looked carefully at what weve been provided with about Ms Cs complaint and the 
payment already made to her. I am satisfied this payment was intended to include the delay 
in responding to Ms C and in forwarding the request to the branch when she first made 
contact about this. As I think this was a fair payment to reflect what ought to have been done 
better, I am not requiring Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given I am not upholding Ms Cs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman