DRN-4210607
The complaint
Miss P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) staff in a branch 
incorrectly counted cash that she wanted to deposit into her account. 
What happened
Miss P visited a NatWest branch in order to deposit some cash in both coins and notes. She 
attempted to use an ATM, however it would not accept some of the notes, so she queued for 
the till instead. The cashier used a counting machine to count the cash, however it came to 
£80 less than Miss P had expected. She asked to manually count the cash again and felt 
four £20 notes were missing. Because of this, she chose not to deposit the cash at that time.
She asked to speak to a manager, but there was a delay, and the manager then went on 
lunch. She says she was offered £80 as a gesture of goodwill by a member of staff, but this 
was later rescinded by another, which she felt was unprofessional. She queued again for the 
same till and deposited the funds. She was assured she would receive a call back but never 
did, so she raised a complaint herself instead. 
NatWest sent Miss P a final response letter the following day in which it explained it was 
crediting her account with £80 and was also paying her £40 compensation for any distress 
and inconvenience the issue had caused her. However, Miss P felt some of the facts in the 
letter were incorrect, so she referred the complaint to our service. 
When NatWest sent their file to our service, they said that they had told Miss P in branch the 
till could not be counted until the end of the day, as they were very busy at the time. They 
confirmed that the tills had been checked at the end of the day, and they balanced, so there 
were no missing funds to account for. With this in mind, they felt the total of £120 Miss P had 
received was fair redress in the circumstances.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and explained that even if they were to agree with 
Miss P that an error had occurred with the £80, NatWest had refunded this the following day 
and given her £40 compensation, so they did not agree NatWest should increase this 
further.
Miss P disagreed with the outcome and she didnt think her medical issues had been taken 
into account when compensation was considered. As an informal agreement could not be 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P has raised a number of specific points in relation to her branch visit and has provided 
additional stories from family and friends about experiences at the same branch. In keeping 
with our role as an informal dispute resolution service and as our rules allow, I will focus here 
on the points I find to be material to the outcome of Miss Ps complaint. This is not meant to 
be a discourtesy to Miss P, and I want to assure her I have considered everything she has 
submitted carefully. 
In summary, this complaint centres around a deposit Miss P made, and concerns she has 
that some funds went missing. NatWest has confirmed that they checked the till Miss P 
used, as well as the machine that was used to count her money, at the end of the day to 
ensure they balanced, and they found that they did. So, I think its more likely NatWest 
processed the deposit correctly, and they didnt make an error when counting the cash. 
Despite this, NatWest still credited Miss Ps account with the £80. And they also gave her 
£40 compensation for any distress and inconvenience the matter may have caused her. 
Even if it had transpired that the tills did not balance at the end of the day, my 
recommendation would have been for NatWest to reimburse Miss P with the £80, and I then 
would have considered compensation. Even taking into account Miss Ps medical issues, I 
would have agreed that the £40 offered and paid was in line with what I would have 
recommended in the circumstances. I say this because while I appreciate this was upsetting 
for Miss P, the issue was quickly resolved the following day when NatWest refunded the 
money and provided compensation.
So, there is nothing further I would direct NatWest to do, even if I were to agree an error had 
been made. And I dont think it needs to do more in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I think the total redress of £120 that National Westminster Bank Plc has already paid Miss P 
is fair in the circumstances and I do not direct them to increase this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman