DRN-3216768
The complaint
Miss N is complaining Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited has declined a claim she 
made on her car insurance policy after her car was stolen. Shes also unhappy its accused 
her of fraud. 
What happened
In April 2020 Miss Ns car was stolen from outside of a shop. She contacted Markerstudy to 
claim for her loss on her car insurance policy. She told Markerstudy shed locked the car and 
gone into the shop. Shortly afterwards she noticed the car being driven away. She said she 
checked her pocket, but the car key wasnt there.
Markerstudy instructed an investigator to look into the incident. It also obtained a copy of the 
police report for the incident. Ultimately Markerstudy declined the claim because it had the 
following concerns:
The police report said the car keys had been left in the car; and
A worker in the shop had said that it was a male who had driven the car and come into 
the shop prior to the car being stolen.
Markerstudy thought Miss N had given false statements to derive a more favourable 
financial settlement than the one she may have otherwise been entitled. It said it would also 
include this information on the insurance fraud database.
Miss N didnt think this was fair. She disputed shed told the police shed left the key in the 
car and maintained she hadnt done so. She also wanted evidence of a signed witness 
statement to show it wasnt her driving the car as she maintained she was.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he thought it was fair for Markerstudy to have 
concerns because of the discrepancies in Miss Ns testimony. Miss N maintained there 
wasnt evidence to show what shed said wasnt true.
As Miss N didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whether Miss N has committed fraud or 
not, as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether Markerstudy has 
carried out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable 
decision.
Miss N doesnt believe theres definitive evidence to support the concerns Markerstudy has 
raised. But my role is to look at whether it was fair for Markerstudy to think, on balance, that 
there was evidence that Miss N had deliberately provided misleading information.
Ive reviewed the claim investigators signed statement and the police report. It seems the 
shop worker gave a detailed testimony about why they thought it was a male driving 
Miss Ns car prior to the theft. Ive found this testimony plausible and persuasive. So, while 
they havent provided a signed statement, I think it was fair for Markerstudy to rely on it. 
Further to this, the police report suggests they spoke with a third party  i.e. not Miss N 
about the theft  and they said the key was left in the car. I also think it was fair for 
Markerstudy to rely on this report. If Miss N thinks the police report contains false 
information, shell need to raise this with the police.
Ultimately, given this, I think it was fair for Markerstudy to say Miss N had given false 
information about the incident. The terms of the insurance policy set out theft isnt covered if 
the keys are left in the car and the car is unattended. Further to this, its likely there wouldnt 
be any cover for theft if the car was in the custody or control of someone not insured on the 
policy. It would seem to me the claim wouldnt be covered based on the abovementioned 
concerns. So I dont think it was unfair for Markerstudy to think Miss N has made false 
statements for a financial gain.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think Markerstudy has acted unfairly in this 
matter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman