DRN-2015569
The complaint
The executor of Mr Ws estate believes a lifetime mortgage Mr W and his wife took out with 
Aviva Equity Release UK Limited was mis-sold.  This was because the executor doesnt 
believe the mortgage was fully explained to them or that they needed the money that was 
released by the mortgage.
What happened
In 2004 Mr and Mrs W took out a lifetime mortgage with Aviva. 
Aviva sent Mr and Mrs W a letter in September 2004 giving some basic information about 
their circumstances and explained the reasons they wanted to take out the mortgage. This 
detailed that they had a moderate pension income and were having to pay a car loan out of it 
 this left little disposable income. They had also both been enjoying taking holidays since 
retirement and wanted to continue to do so, but without depleting their existing savings. In 
addition, they wanted to raise some money to do some home improvements. It was detailed 
Mr and Mrs W were willing to risk eroding all the equity in the property and so wanted to 
borrow as much as possible. That said, they still hoped to leave an inheritance due to house 
price rises. 
The letter went on to confirm Mr and Mrs W had told Aviva theyd discussed taking a lifetime 
mortgage with the beneficiaries of their estate. In addition, it was detailed that using their 
existing savings to cater for their needs had been discussed, but Mr and Mrs W didnt want 
to deplete their emergency fund. The idea of moving to a smaller property was considered, 
but they didnt want to leave their home. Aviva recommended they take a lifetime mortgage 
for £18,720. It was highlighted the mortgage was likely to erode any potential legacy Mr and 
Mrs W would leave their beneficiaries. 
A quote was given to Mr and Mrs W at the same time. This detailed a mortgage of £18,720 
against a property value of £78,000. It explained the fixed interest rate was 7.49% and gave 
examples of the amount that would be owed after different periods of time. It showed after 
ten years the debt would have increased to £38,547 and after twenty years to £79,372. The 
property had been valued at £78,000.
In the autumn of 2014 Mr W telephoned Aviva after discussing the mortgage with his 
daughter. She had seen an article about equity release mortgages and was concerned the 
mortgage might have been a bad idea. Aviva explained to Mr W how the mortgage worked. 
It told him if he needed any advice, he should speak to a financial adviser. 
Following Mr Ws death the executor of his estate made a complaint to Aviva about the sale 
of the mortgage  that it was unsuitable. Mrs W had predeceased Mr W.
Aviva responded to the complaint by initially explaining how the mortgage worked and its 
process for selling it. Aviva said it was satisfied that its adviser established Mr and Mrs Ws 
circumstances and objectives at the time, and that their existing funds and income werent 
sufficient to provide for those objectives.
The executor wasnt satisfied with Avivas response and asked this service to consider the 
complaint. One of our investigators did that. However, she didnt recommend it be upheld as 
she considered the mortgage was suitable for Mr and Mrs W at the time of the sale.
The executor didnt accept the investigators opinion. She said that it was wrong what Aviva 
did and that Mr and Mrs W didnt seek financial advice, but rather the adviser knocked on 
their door unsolicited. She went on to say that she believes the advice from Aviva was 
wrong. This was because she feels that if someone has savings, they should be advised to 
use them to pay off any loans, as interest on loans is greater than the returns on savings. 
She also considered that, had Mr and Mrs W been interested in taking out an equity release 
mortgage, they would have approached a company about it, and not taken advice from a 
door-to-door salesman, who would have sold them something for the sake of commission. In 
addition, she said that Mrs W wouldnt have understood or remembered anything she was 
told because she had Alzheimers. 
Our investigator responded to the executors further comments. She explained that whilst the 
executor believed the sale had resulted from a knock on the door, that was not the case. As 
lifetime mortgages are complicated products, there was a process that was gone through 
and it involved more than one appointment. She also explained that it was Mr and Mrs Ws 
decision as to what to do with their savings and the value of their home. In relation to the 
executors comment about Mrs Ws ability to understand what was happening, she 
highlighted that the matter of the mortgage been arranged was not only discussed with 
Aviva, but also with Mr and Mrs Ws chosen solicitor (whose responsibility was to ensure 
they understood what they were doing) and their family. The investigator didnt change her 
conclusions about the sale and the executor asked that the complaint be passed to an 
ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed all of the documentation from the time of the sale of the mortgage. It 
appears that Mr and Mrs W had a pension income that was perfectly adequate for them to 
live on, but by the time theyd paid their car loan, left them with less than £70 per month to 
pay for luxuries, holidays or home improvements. They had almost three more years of 
payments to make to the car loan. Whilst the executor of their estate believes Mr and Mrs W 
had plenty of savings that could have provided for their needs, they told the Aviva adviser 
that they only had £2,000 in savings. Given they wanted to pay off their car loan of over 
£5,000 to free up income, the savings they declared to Aviva wouldnt have been sufficient to 
do that.
Mr and Mrs W also wanted to do some other home improvements to make their home more 
comfortable. Again, this wouldnt have been possible from their savings. Nor would more 
traditional lending have been affordable for them given their modest income. On top of that, 
Mr and Mrs W told the adviser they had been enjoying travelling over recent years and they 
wanted to be able to continue doing so. In the circumstances, I dont think the 
recommendation of a lifetime mortgage was inappropriate for Mr and Mrs W, as long as they 
were given enough information to understand it. 
In that regard, the documentation from the time of the sale gave clear information about the 
mortgage, including the amounts that would be owed at different times. There were also 
assumptions made about future house price movements and details of how that would affect 
how much equity there would be left in the property after different periods. At the time of the 
sale of this mortgage Aviva was also a member of a voluntary scheme that required a consumer to take the information about the mortgage to their solicitor to ensure they 
understood what they were doing and the implications of the advice. Had Mrs W not 
understood the mortgage and actions she and Mr W were proposing to take, the solicitor 
wouldnt have signed the documentation required to allow the mortgage to proceed. I also 
think Mr and Mrs Ws family would have raised concerns.
Mr and Mrs W also told Aviva that theyd discussed taking out the mortgage with their 
beneficiaries. This would appear to be the case as, based on Mr Ws enquiry in 2015, his 
daughter was already aware of the existence of the mortgage. 
I know that this will disappoint the executor of Mr Ws estate, but I dont consider the 
mortgage was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs W. As such, I cant find that Aviva did anything wrong. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask the estate of Mr W to accept or reject my decision 
before 2 April 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman