DRN-3807431
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about how National House-Building Council (NHBC) handled and 
settled their claim on their building warranty. 
What happened
In 2010 Mr and Mrs W bought a new property in a building that came with a ten-year 
warranty provided by NHBC. 
In 2014 they noticed water ingress into the property following a spell of bad weather. They 
made a claim on the warranty which NHBC accepted. Over the years that followed NHBC 
attempted numerous repairs. However after time the repairs failed and the property suffered 
further ingress. 
In 2020 NHBC installed a tin hat as a temporary measure to protect the building from further 
ingress while repairs were completed. However Mr and Mrs W decided to move out of the 
house into a vacant property belonging to their family due to the noise from the tin hat and 
the inconvenience of the ongoing claim.
Towards the end of 2021 Mr and Mrs W made a complaint to NHBC about the amount of 
time the claim had taken to resolve, as it had been many years and the repairs were still 
outstanding. It responded and accepted there had been unnecessary delays. It apologised 
and offered £1,750 compensation. 
However the repairs were still not completed and in March 2022 NHBC offered to cash settle 
the claim and offered a settlement amount of around £65,000. Mr and Mrs W didnt accept 
this as they said no break down of the cost had been offered and they considered it to be 
insufficient for the required repairs. Further, theyd rather NHBC appointed contractors to do 
the work rather than cash settling. 
They raised this with NHBC but it didnt change the offer. However it said that should Mr and 
Mrs W provide a quote for the work that was above this then it would reconsider the 
settlement amount.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said that NHBC is entitled to cash settle if it chooses to and shes not seen anything to show 
that the settlement offered was unfair. She also thought the compensation offered was in line 
with what she would have recommended if NHBC hadnt made an offer, so she didnt think it 
should do anything more. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with our investigators outcome. They said as NHBC hadnt 
provided a scope of works they were having to obtain one themselves before they could get 
a quote. And they thought this should be provided before the complaint is decided on. They 
also maintained that NHBCs decision to cash settle the claim was unfair and that it should 
carry out the work itself instead. They asked for their case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Compensation
Having reviewed the timeline and correspondence provided in relation to this claim, I can 
see it has gone on for far longer than Id expect for a claim of this nature. And I can see a lot 
of the reasons for these delays could have been avoided. NHBC has carried out repairs that 
have later failed and required further work on a number of occasions. And this has added a 
significant amount of additional time onto the claim.
Further, it has caused Mr and Mrs W some significant distress and inconvenience. As it 
means theyve had to live with a house suffering from ongoing water ingress and have had 
to continue to chase and correspond with NHBC for much longer than they should have 
done. This has led to them making the decision to move to a different property, which I 
understand. And I agree it would be distressing for them to be out of their home for such a 
long period of time. So I agree NHBC has caused delays that have resulted in significant 
distress and inconvenience. 
It's offered Mr and Mrs W £1,750 compensation to apologise for these delays and this is in 
line with this services approach to similar complaints and what I would have asked it to pay 
if it hadnt already made an offer. So while I agree NHBC has provided very poor service 
throughout the claim and caused significant delays, I think its offer of compensation is a fair 
one. So I wont ask it to do anything further in this regard.  
Cash settlement 
Mr and Mrs W are dissatisfied that NHBC have offered a cash settlement rather than 
agreeing to carry out the work itself. Under the policy NHBC is entitled to settle the claim in 
any way it sees fit. And considering the amount of time this claim has been ongoing for and 
the problems that have been experienced to date, I understand why it thinks a cash 
settlement may be a better option to now resolve the issues. 
However where it is the insurers decision to enforce a cash settlement, this service would 
expect it to settle at the amount it will cost its customer to get the work done, rather than at 
its own rates that are often heavily discounted. It has said that if Mr and Mrs W obtain a 
quote for the work then it will reconsider its offer based on how much the work will cost them. 
And I think this is a fair offer and in line with this services approach.
Mr and Mrs W have also said that they dont consider the amount offered to be sufficient for 
the work that is required to repair their property. While I appreciate their concerns, they 
havent provided any evidence to show why the cost is incorrect or how much the true cost 
is. Whereas NHBCs quote is provided by its contractor who is an expert in building repairs. 
So based on this, Ive not seen enough evidence to say that the settlement is insufficient. 
Further, as Ive said, NHBC has offered to revise the settlement should Mr and Mrs W 
provide a quote. So this means if they find that they are unable to get the repair work done 
for the amount offered, NHBC will reconsider their offer. Which means Mr and Mrs W 
shouldnt be out of pocket even if the repair works do cost more than the initial settlement. I 
therefore think what NHBC has offered is fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs W have also complained that NHBC hasnt provided a full scope of works for the repairs and have instructed their own contractor to do this. I note their request that this 
decision is not issued before this is obtained. I have considered their request but I dont think 
the scope would have any impact on the outcome of this complaint. As the complaint I am 
considering is whether NHBC has acted fairly in how its settled the claim. And as NHBC has 
already said it will consider revising its settlement if it is provided with a quote from a 
contractor, having a scope of works from Mr and Mrs W wont change my opinion that this is 
a fair offer. I therefore suggest that if Mr and Mrs W still consider the settlement to be 
insufficient when they receive the scope, that they obtain a quote and provide it to NHBC 
when they are able to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman