DRN-3117147
The complaint
Mr T complains that Stonehage Fleming Investment Management Limited (SFIM) gave him 
unsuitable investment advice. He says he was advised to invest in a portfolio which was too 
high risk for his needs and objectives.
The complaint is brought on his behalf by a solicitor.
What happened
In 2017 Mr T was gifted some money which he says he planned to use for a house purchase 
in a few years. In the meantime, he wanted to invest the money and sought advice from 
SFIM.
Having assessed Mr Ts objectives, investment time horizon, and attitude to risk, SFIM 
recommended its cautious portfolio. Mr T invested around £1.9 million in June 2017.
Over the next couple of years, Mr T was not happy with the performance of the portfolio and 
he gave instructions to liquidate it in May 2020. He says hes lost around £190,000. He 
complained to SFIM about the portfolios performance and said the portfolio was not suitable 
for him.
SFIM said it had clearly explained the investment mandate and level of risk to Mr T and that 
Mr T knew he could give instructions to change the portfolios composition if his 
circumstances had changed. It disputed the loss figure Mr T claimed and said the portfolio 
had lost around £40,000 when Mr T decided to liquidate it.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the 
allocation of assets in the portfolio reflected a cautious approach to investing, particularly the 
use of alternative investments.
SFIM didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
It continually made it clear to Mr T that, if he needed the money in the short term, he 
should remain in cash. Mr T made it clear he wanted the money invested.
During a phone call in November 2018, SFIM explained, more than once, that the 
portfolio should be moved to cash if Mr T had a short investment time horizon. And it 
tried, unsuccessfully, to follow up with Mr T after this meeting to see if hed confirmed his 
plans.
Mr Ts risk tolerance was assessed by his ability, capacity, and willingness to tolerate 
risk. And the time horizon was an important factor. Mr T had a medium-term time horizon 
(three to five years), and that was why it recommended a portfolio with less than 40% in 
global equities.
There is no regulatory definition of a cautious mandate, but Mr Ts portfolio was broadly 
in line with industry standards.
11% was invested in alternative investments to reduce the volatility of the overall 
portfolio. And alternative investments were included as part of a diversified portfolio.
The asset weightings of Mr Ts portfolio werent that dissimilar to the benchmark 
recommended for redress by the investigator.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and in my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here from both parties. 
Im not going to respond to every single point theyve made. No discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do 
this and it simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Secondly, its not my role to decide the risk rating of a particular portfolio. Rather its to 
decide whether the mix of assets in the portfolio was suitable for Mr Ts objectives and his 
attitude to, and capacity for, risk.
I can see SFIM sought detailed information from Mr T. Some of the key facts it recorded 
were that:
He had very low knowledge and experience of markets and products.
He was likely to need to liquidate a substantial part of his portfolio in the foreseeable 
future - he planned to purchase a property, most likely in the next three to five years.
His investment objective was to grow the capital value of the portfolio and maximise long 
term overall return.
His risk tolerance was in line with having less than 40% exposure to equities.
SFIM recommended its cautious mandate portfolio. The asset allocation of the portfolio was:
Cash 7%
Fixed income 50%
Equities 26%
Alternatives 17%
Following a second meeting, before Mr T signed the agreement, he requested that the cash 
allocation remained below 3%. So the asset allocation was adjusted to:
Cash 3%
Fixed income 53%
Equities 26%
Alternatives 18%I find there were some aspects of this recommendation which didnt make it suitable for 
Mr T. Let me explain:
SFIM recorded that Mr Ts investment objective was to grow the capital value of the 
portfolio, maximising long term overall return with moderate fluctuation in capital value. But 
Mr T had told SFIM that he planned to liquidate the portfolio to buy a property in the next 
three to five years. So there wouldnt have been the capacity or opportunity to maximise the 
return over the long term. 
Around a year after hed invested, Mr T told SFIM he probably intended to buy a property in 
around two years. Which is consistent with the three to five-year time horizon hed agreed at 
the outset. At this point, SFIM said Mr T should consider coming out of the market as his 
time horizon for investment was less than three years. But I think it would have known this at 
the outset.
Ive taken into account that its clear from listening to the call that took place in November 
2018 that Mr T was very unclear about his future plans. But he was consistent in his 
communications with SFIM in saying that he did plan to buy a property and that this was 
likely to be in around three years (in 2017) and two years (in 2018). 
SFIM was clear in its advice in November 2018 that, if Mr T had an investment time horizon 
of less than three years, he should hold his money in cash, or fixed interest investments. 
I think if this advice had been clearly given at the outset, Mr T would not have gone ahead 
with the investment in the portfolio.
SFIM recorded that non-mainstream pooled investments (NMPIs) were likely to be suitable 
for inclusion in the portfolio. It said this was because:
Portfolio is to be managed on a discretionary basis, with no allocation to private 
capital. NMPIs included in the multi-asset portfolio are most likely to be alternative 
allocations. Client has not restricted alternatives investments and there is no other 
reason to believe they may be unsuitable for the client within the risk and return 
objectives of the cautious mandate.
But the detailed questions about suitability of NMPIs for Mr T recorded that they were less 
likely to be suitable for him because of his lack of experience and understanding about these 
types of products. Taking into consideration the particular risks of these types of product and 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules on restriction of promotion of these types of products 
 and therefore the particular care that needed to be taken to ensure suitability  I dont think 
investment in NMPIs was suitable given Mr Ts circumstances, even as part of a diversified 
portfolio.
SFIM says that Mr T didnt raise any objections until the portfolio started to lose value. But 
I think this accurately reflects Mr Ts lack of knowledge and experience and the realisation 
that the money hed set aside for a house purchase was losing value, rather than growing as 
hed expected. I dont think SFIM gave any guarantees about the investment and Mr T would 
have been given the warning that his investments could fall in value as well as rise. But 
I think his investment time horizon meant his capacity for loss was, in reality, less than that 
recorded by SFIM.
Ive thought carefully about SFIMs comments regarding the asset weightings of Mr Ts 
portfolio not being dissimilar to the benchmark that the investigator has recommended for 
redress. But my view is that SFIMs cautious mandate portfolio was not suitable for the key 
objective that Mr T had for his funds, relating to his aim to buy a property in the timescale 
that he had outlined to SFIM. Overall, I agree with our investigator that the recommendation to invest in SFIMs cautious mandate portfolio was not suitable for Mr T, and a fair way to 
compensate him is by reference to the benchmarks the investigator proposed.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr T 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I think Mr T would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr T's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should SFIM do?
To compensate Mr T fairly, SFIM must:
Compare the performance of Mr T's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
SFIM should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
SFIM 
portfolio No longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
SFIM totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically.Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr T wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mr T's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr T into that position. It does not mean that Mr T 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr T could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. 
Stonehage Fleming Investment Management Limited should pay the amount calculated as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman