DRN-2891100
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that Starling Bank Limited didnt recover a payment sent to 
the wrong account.
What happened
T sent a faster payment for £1,000 on 9 December 2020. The director accepts that he sent it 
in error to someone he had paid before. And so, he didnt identify the discrepancy in the full 
payees name. The director doesnt think that Starling Bank has done enough to recover this 
money.
Starling Bank said it hadnt made a mistake. It had followed its credit payment recovery 
process. And it wasnt able to recover the money from the payee.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he thought 
Starling Bank had taken reasonable steps as required under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 to recover the money paid in error. There were insufficient funds to make 
a refund in the recipients account which it was now clear was also held at Starling Bank. 
T didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. It said it hadnt 
made progress in pursuing the recipient of the money through separate legal means.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about this genuine mistake made by the director of T. And that 
unfortunately he didnt realise the difference in the name of the payee when confirming this 
payment as hed made a payment to this person before. He explained this to Starling Bank 
which also happened to hold the account of the recipient of the money too. 
Weve been provided with evidence to show that it contacted the recipient of the money 
asking that it be returned. But that it could see that there were insufficient funds to repay it. 
That remained the position and I dont think that it could reasonably do anything further. I 
understand that as a resolution to a related complaint Starling Bank provided details of the 
recipient to T so that it could consider taking legal action.
Im afraid I dont have a basis to find that Starling Bank made a mistake or has acted 
unreasonably. So, I know the director of T will be disappointed when I say that I wont be 
asking it to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman