DRN-1537324
 
The complaint
 Miss N complains about the amount she received from Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited, when she made a claim for the cost of her dog's treatment, and that there 
was a delay in processing her claim.
 What happened
 Miss N has pet insurance for her dog with Red Sands. Her Prime policy has an annual limit 
of £2000 per condition. A claim is subject to an excess of £99, and due to the age of her 
dog, a co-payment of 20% of the claim. 
In September 2019 Miss N's dog suffered an injury to it's right cruciate ligament and required 
an operation. She contacted Red Sands for confirmation of how much they'd pay towards 
the cost of her dog's surgery. She was told about the annual claim limit per condition, and 
that any claim was subject to an excess and a 20% co-payment. 
During a live chat Miss N asked Red Sands how much they'd pay for the surgery. She was 
reminded of the £2000 policy limit and told that after deduction of her excess and co-
payment they'd look to cover up to £1520.80. 
Miss N has told us she contacted a number of vet's to get a quotation for her dog's surgery 
that was under this amount. Her dog had its surgery and on 2 October 2019 Red Sands 
received a claim for £1471.20. As this was the first claim for this condition the £99 excess 
and 20% co-payment were deducted and Miss N received a payment of £1097.76. She says 
this was £373.44 less than she'd expected to receive, after she'd ensured she kept the cost 
of the surgery under the amount Red Sands had told her they'd pay.
There was also a delay in Miss N's claim being processed. Having received the claim on 2 
October 2019, Red Sands requested the dog's medical history from her vet's, which was 
received on 4 October 2019. Miss N had chased Red Sands who told her the claim was 
passed to their assessor's on that date, they aimed to process claims in seven to ten 
working days, and she should expect to receive payment three to five working days after the 
claim had been assessed. 
But this didn't happen as Red Sands missed the claim and it was only processed after Miss 
N chased them again on 5 November 2019. She then received the payment of £1097.76 on 
7 November 2019.
Miss N complained to Red Sands about the delay and the amount she'd received. She told 
them she'd had to pay her vet's bill on her credit card and she was very worried about the 
interest she'd be charged, as she was on a limited income. She also said she'd expected to 
receive the whole amount she'd paid, as the total bill was less than amount she'd been told 
they'd pay.
Red Sands upheld Miss N's complaint about delay and offered to cover any interest she'd 
had to pay on her credit card, if she provided evidence of what she'd been charged. But they didn't uphold her complaint about the amount she received, as they said her policy schedule 
and the policy terms and conditions set out clearly that her excess and 20% co-payment 
would be deducted from her claim. And they said during the live chat it had been made clear 
that £1520.80 was the most they could look to pay based on her policy limit, taking into 
account the excess and co-payment.
Miss N remained unhappy and complained to our service. Our investigator considered the 
case and was satisfied Red Sands had clearly explained to Miss N the amount she was 
covered for, and how her excess and co-payment would be applied. So she didn't think there 
was any further payment due to her in respect of her vet's bill. But she felt Miss N had 
suffered trouble and upset as a result of the delay in processing her claim. To compensate 
her for this she recommended Red Sands pay Miss N £100 and interest of 8% on the sum of 
£1097.76 from 18 October 2019 to 7 November 2019. 
Red Sands didn't accept our investigator's opinion. They said they were prepared to pay 8% 
interest, for the period our investigator recommended. But they thought £50 was sufficient 
compensation for Miss N's trouble and upset, as they offered to pay any additional interest 
she was charged, but she didn't provide any evidence to them. 
The case has now come to me for a decision.
Since our investigator provided her opinion we've asked Miss N to confirm the interest she 
was charged on her credit card. She's told us that she was charged £84. But when she 
spoke to her credit card provider she was very upset, and in the circumstances they were 
very understanding and agreed to waive this interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've looked at Miss N's policy schedule and the policy terms and conditions and I'm satisfied 
these clearly set out the £2000 policy limit per claim and the excess and co-payment to be 
deducted from this figure. And looking at the summary of the live chat Miss N had with Red 
Sands I'm also satisfied they explained clearly to her, her policy limit, the deductions that 
would apply to this, and that £1520.80 was the maximum amount they could look to pay on 
any claim. 
I think Miss N misunderstood what she was told and believed if she kept the claim for her 
dog's treatment under £1520.80 the whole of her claim would be paid. When she submitted 
the claim for her dog's treatment, I'm satisfied that Red Sands made the correct deductions, 
and paid her the full amount covered by her policy.
Red Sands have accepted that there was a delay in processing Miss N's claim. They've told 
us that they're prepared to pay the 8% interest recommended by our investigator on the sum 
of £1097.76 from 18 October 2019 to 7 November 2019. So I only need to consider the 
amount Miss N should receive for the trouble and upset the delay caused her.
Red Sands think £50 is sufficient compensation, as they offered to pay any interest Miss N 
had been charged by her credit card provider, as a result of the delay. But Miss N didn't 
accept this offer. Miss N has now told us she was charged £84 interest, but due to her 
circumstances her provider agreed to waive this. So she didn't pay any additional interest. 
Miss N was clearly very distressed by the delay in processing her claim, she's told us she 
felt in limbo, not knowing if her claim would be paid. And given what she's told us about her financial circumstances I accept this would have been very difficult for her, particularly at a 
time when she was already worried about her dog's health. I've taken into account that Red 
Sands had offered to pay any interest Miss N was charged, and in all the circumstances I 
think £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset she suffered as a 
result of the delay in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I partially uphold Miss N's complaint 
against Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited. And to put things right I require 
them to : -
Pay Miss N simple interest at 8% on the sum of £1097.76 from 18 October 2019 to 7 
November 2019.
Pay Miss N £100 compensation for the trouble and upset she suffered as a result of 
the delay in processing her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2020.
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman