DRN-3071350
The complaint
Miss S complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc didnt treat her fairly and with respect 
when she asked it for a payment holiday. She says it caused her to be overdrawn at her 
other bank and its actions affected her credit score.
What happened
Miss S took out a conditional sale agreement in August 2017 to purchase a car. In March 
2020 she asked Santander for a payment holiday on the car loan. She says that although 
the it offered her a payment holiday, it still collected her monthly direct debit, and this caused 
problems with her other bank and it also adversely affected her credit rating. Miss S told us:
She asked the bank for a payment holiday on her loan account and this was 
approved, but the bank wasnt able to stop her next payment from collecting;
Santander suggested she make an indemnity claim against the direct debit with her 
other bank and that the funds would be returned;
the other bank made the indemnity claim, but Santander rejected it and because of 
this, a late payment marker was applied to her credit record and this has affected her 
credit score;
Santander also wrongly provided the other bank with a copy of her credit agreement 
and personal details without her consent and, in doing so, it breached GDPR;
the banks staff provided no sympathy or empathy, and the people she dealt with 
were defensive, rude and unhelpful. She says the whole situation has caused her an 
enormous amount of stress.
Santander upheld Miss S complaint and it apologised for the poor service it had provided 
and the inconvenience it had caused. It explained that although Miss S had contacted it on 
31 March 2020 and a payment deferral was agreed, there was insufficient time to implement 
it before the next payment was due  the payment was already in the process of being 
collected. Because of this, it advised her to make an indemnity claim with her other bank in 
respect of this payment and the money would be recalled for her.
Santander told Miss S that it had failed to notify its finance department that about the 
indemnity claim and what it had agreed with Miss S. The result was that when Miss S other 
bank tried to claim back the money, Santanders finance team contested it. And in contesting 
it, Santander sent the other bank details of the finance agreement it had with Miss S. It 
acknowledged that it shouldve redacted many of Miss S personal details.
Santander acknowledged the mistakes it had made and apologised for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused and the impact this had had on Miss S overall wellbeing. It 
offered Miss S £500 compensation in recognition of what had happened, and it confirmed it 
would update her credit file to show perfect conduct whilst you are in the deferral payment 
break. It also advised Miss S that because it had refunded one monthly payment from her 
loan account, a payment of £383.25 was due.
Miss S didnt accept Santanders offer. She said the service shed received had been 
unsatisfactory, so Santander looked at the complaint again.
It confirmed that a payment holiday had been applied to Miss S account for May, June and 
July 2020, but that there were arrears on the account in respect of the April payment that it 
had returned to her. In an effort to bring the complaint to a conclusion, the bank re-stated its 
offer of £500 compensation and in addition, it said it would waive the arrears of £383.25 on 
the account.
Miss S rejected the banks offer and brought her complaint to this Service.
In 2021, Miss S made a further complaint about how Santander was treating her. She said 
the bank had granted her a payment holiday so her account couldnt be in arrears. And she 
said it hadnt correctly notified the credit reference agencies about her account  it was 
wrong of it to inform them of a default.
Santander rejected this complaint. It said Miss S had not made her monthly loan repayment 
for September 2020 which was due because her initial 3-month payment deferral had ended. 
It explained that it entered a second 3-month payment deferral with Miss S in October 2020, 
and this covered her monthly repayments for October, November and December. But it said 
shed not paid monthly repayments for January and February 2021 when they were due, and 
she was then three months in arrears.
Santander says Miss S subsequently repaid one months arrears, but her account still had 
two monthly repayments outstanding and it was on this basis that it had served her with a 
Notice of Default. The bank explained that it had an obligation to report accurate information 
to the credit reference agencies and it said this is what it had done.
Santander confirmed that its original offer was still open to Miss S. It had offered her £500 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience it acknowledged it had caused her. And it had 
offered to waive arrears in the sum of £383.25 in connection with the missed payment from 
April 2020.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld  he 
thought Santanders offer was a fair way to settle this complaint.
He explained that both parties accepted the direct debit indemnity claim should not have 
been contested by Santander  it had suggested this as an effective way of dealing with 
Miss Ss request for a payment deferral. And by contesting it, Miss S other account had 
been overdrawn for about six weeks. He said this wouldve caused Miss S additional distress 
even if the other bank hadnt charged her any fees for being overdrawn.
Our investigator went on to explain that it wasnt the role of this Service to decide if a 
business has breached data protection rules and regulations  that was the role of the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). And he acknowledged that as Miss S had also 
raised a complaint about this with that organisation already, this wasnt something that hed 
be investigating. But he said we could look at the impact of what had happened on Miss S 
and consider whether Santander had done enough on this occasion.
Taking everything into consideration, he said he thought the banks total compensation offer 
of £883.25 was fair in the circumstances and he didnt think Santander needed to do 
anything more.
The investigator then considered Miss S subsequent complaint and he issued an opinion. 
He explained that hed seen evidence that Miss S had contacted the bank again in 
August 2020 and had been granted a further 3-month payment deferral covering October, 
November and December 2020. And he noted that Santander had paid Miss S £100 because it hadnt been able to implement the payment deferral in time for her September 
2020 payment.
He took into account the FCAs guidance to banks about how they should treat customers 
experiencing financial difficulty during the Covid-19 pandemic. And although he said 
Santander couldve done more to assist Miss S when she contacted it in August 2020, he 
thought the £100 it offered Miss S was fair and reasonable and in line with what he wouldve 
asked it to do.
He went on to consider Miss S request for a further payment deferral in January 2021  a 
request that Santander declined  but he said he didnt think the bank had done anything 
wrong. He explained that the FCAs guidance stated that payment deferrals could be granted 
for a maximum period of six months, and Miss S had already had the benefit of six months 
payment deferrals.
Finally, he looked at Miss S credit file and the reporting that Santander had given to the 
credit reference agencies. He explained that Santander had a duty to report information 
accurately  the guidance makes it clear that normal reporting to credit reference agencies 
should resume once payment deferrals have come to an end. Accordingly, Santanders 
reporting for January, February and March 20201 was an accurate reflection of Miss S 
account.
Miss S disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Miss S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. Miss S should 
note, however, that although I may not address each individual point that shes raised, I have 
given careful consideration to all of her submissions before arriving at my decision.
Having taken everything into consideration, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. To be honest, theres very little I can add to 
what hes already said, and I think hes set out the position very clearly in both of his views.
Theres no dispute about what happened. Miss S tried to contact Santander at the end of 
March 2020 to discuss her financial difficulties. But because of the developing global 
pandemic, its not surprising to me that the telephone lines were very busy, and it took 
Miss S several attempts over several days to finally contact someone at the bank. I know 
this wouldve added to Miss S worries  but I cant hold the bank responsible for this.
When Miss S was finally able to speak with someone at Santander, it was too late to do 
anything about the direct debit payment that was already scheduled to collect  the financial 
process that sent the money from Miss S other bank to her Santander loan account had 
already commenced. 
Santander suggested Miss S make an indemnity claim on the direct debit with her other 
bank and this would enable the payment to be recalled. Miss S would still owe a loan 
payment for April 2020 and at the same time, Santander wouldve granted her a one-month 
payment deferral as shed asked.Things went awry when Santander didnt tell its own finance department what it had agreed 
with Miss S. And it acknowledges this  it says it was a simple case of human error. The 
result was that the indemnity claim failed, the temporary credit Miss S other bank had 
placed in her account until Santander sent the money back was withdrawn, her bank 
account was overdrawn and her credit file was updated to reflect this.
Ive considered very carefully Santanders subsequent actions  and I think its done enough 
to put things right. It offered to waive the arrears associated with the missed payment  so 
Miss S doesnt need to make that payment at all. And it offered her £500 compensation in 
recognition of the worry and stress it had caused. It also ensured that her credit file was 
updated, and the missed payment marker was removed.
I believe Miss S other bank account was overdrawn for several weeks, but I dont think the 
other bank applied any fees or charges because of this. And I understand that it also 
updated Miss S credit file  so theres no record of this overdraft or the failed direct debit 
indemnity claim. I know the whole situation will have caused Miss S considerable worry but 
taking into account all the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that Santanders 
offer to waive one months arrears and pay £500 compensation is both fair and reasonable. 
And thats what Im going to ask it to do.
Ive gone on to consider Miss S subsequent complaint points about the second payment 
holiday that she arranged, but Im not going to uphold these.
I can see Miss S asked for further support from Santander for her ongoing financial 
difficulties. She was in contact with Santander from mid-August to early October regarding 
the setting up of a new payment deferral. And Santander agreed to a second 3-month 
payment deferral.
Santander acknowledged that it couldve dealt with Miss S request sooner and it wrote to 
her in early September offering her £100 in recognition of the delay. The payment deferral 
was eventually set up in October 2020, and covered the loan repayments due for October, 
November and December 2020. And Santander wrote to confirm this and it also confirmed 
that Miss S next payment would be due at the end of January 2021.
Ive looked at the FCA guidelines to see whether Santander treated Miss S in the way I 
would expect, and Im satisfied it did. Its actions were in accordance with guidelines issued 
by the FCA in July 2020. In its guidance the FCA said Where, after an initial payment 
deferral, and at any time before their first payment is due, a customer indicates they remain 
in temporary payment difficulties and cannot resume full payments immediately, a firm 
should offer a full or partial payment deferral to reduce payments for a period of 3 months to 
a level the customer indicates they can afford. If the customer is in temporary payment 
difficulties but is unable to afford any payments, the firm should offer them a full payment 
deferral where this is in the customers interests.
I know Miss S requested a third payment deferral when her second payment deferral came 
to an end in January 2021, and this was declined by Santander. The FCAs guidelines at this 
time were clear  payment deferrals could be agreed for a maximum of six months. So, I 
dont think Santander did anything wrong because Miss S had already had the benefit of 
payment deferrals for a total of six months.
Miss S also complains about the way in which Santander recorded arrears on her account 
and reported these arrears to the credit reference agencies. So, Ive looked carefully at the 
transactions on Miss S loan account and what happened after her second payment deferral 
ended in January 2021.Miss S didnt make her loan repayment in January 2021. The arrears combined with the 
missed payment from September 2020 meant that Miss S was now two months behind with 
her loan repayments. Santander wrote to Miss S to notify her of her arrears as its required 
to do  this ensured that Miss S knew the accurate and current position of her account in 
respect of outstanding arrears. And it seems the bank had already made it clear in earlier 
telephone calls that, once the payment deferrals had finished, missed payments would be 
reported to the credit reference agencies.
In early March, having missed Februarys payment as well, Santander issued Miss S with a 
notice of default. She immediately made a payment and the bank used this to cover the 
missing repayment and arrears from September 2020 and it updated her credit file 
accordingly.
At the end of March, the conditional sale agreement was terminated, and the car was 
returned. Santander told Miss S that the agreement was settled, and it notified the credit 
reference agencies that the debt had now been satisfied. But it left arrears marks on her 
credit report in respect of the missed payments for January, February and March 2021. Im 
satisfied that this was an accurate reflection of what had happened, and it was in line with 
the FCAs guidance at the time. This stated that We expect firms to resume normal CRA 
reporting once all of a customers payment deferral periods have come to an end
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think that Santander did anything wrong when it 
issued a notice of default to Miss S in March and it reported the arrears on her account to 
the credit reference agencies.
Putting things right
Im going to ask Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to pay Miss S the compensation it already 
offered her, if it hasnt already done so. Thats:
the £500 compensation for the mistakes it made with the direct debit indemnity claim;
the £383.25 arrears it offered to waive in respect of the April 2020 payment;
and the £100 if offered Miss S because it hadnt been able to implement her second 
payment deferral as quickly as it shouldve done. 
I think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and I dont think 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc needs to do anything more.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to 
pay compensation as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman