DRN-3090126
The complaint
Mr F complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) recorded incorrect 
information on his credit file which then impacted his mortgage application.  
Mr F is being represented in this complaint by his partner. For simplicity Ive referred to the 
representatives actions as being those of Mr F
  
What happened
Mr F applied for a mortgage with Lender B. During this process, Lender B alerted Mr F to 
adverse information showing on his credit file. This showed defaults recorded by Nationwide 
against two loan accounts and one credit card account. Mr F says he hadnt missed any 
payments so he contacted Nationwide about the information showing on his credit file. 
Nationwide accepted there had been an error and confirmed the credit file would be 
corrected. A few months passed and Mr Fs credit file still hadnt been updated correctly so 
he complained. 
Nationwide acknowledged there had been errors and confirmed they would remove all 
negative markers across both loans and also paid £250 compensation. Nationwide then sent 
a final response letter and agreed there had been errors in the credit file amendments for   
Mr Fs loan accounts and a delay in correcting this. They confirmed they have now arranged 
for the correct amendments to be completed. Nationwide offered a further £150 
compensation in addition to the £250 already paid. 
During our investigation, Nationwide provided information showing they had addressed 
complaints by Mr F relating to a credit card account and a mortgage application. In relation 
to the former, Mr F was given £30 compensation and £175 in relation to the latter. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr F. He thought Nationwides error in relation to the 
reporting on the loans had a severe impact on Mr F. He recommended Nationwide pay an 
additional £800 compensation. Nationwide disagreed and, in addition to the £250 already 
paid and further offer of £150, they offered a further £200  bringing the total to £600. Mr F 
declined this offer and our investigator maintained their view that an additional £800 was fair. 
Nationwide disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr F. The key facts about the complaint arent in 
dispute. Nationwide have admitted they got things wrong when they reported incorrect 
information about Mr Fs loans and about the delay in correcting this information on his credit 
file. I cant see theres any dispute on the facts or the terms of the resolution relating to the 
credit card or mortgage complaints so Ive focussed my decision on the loans. The only 
issue I have to decide is whether Nationwides offer to put things right is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Nationwide should compensate Mr F for the upset, frustration and 
inconvenience caused by their poor service. I can see they have already paid £250 and 
offered a further £150 while handling Mr Fs complaint. And, theyve offered a further £200 to 
bring the total compensation to £600. I have carefully considered this but I dont think it fairly 
reflects the impact on Mr F. Ill explain why. 
It appears Mr F first became aware of the reporting errors by Nationwide in July 2020. 
Lender B email Mr F and explain his credit file shows missed payments against two loans 
from Nationwide. They say Nationwide will need to notify the Credit Reference Agencies 
(CRAs) in order to remove it from his credit file. Lender B say they understand the CRAs 
can take a while to remove any entries so they ask Mr F if Nationwide is able to provide a 
letter of satisfaction and confirmation of their error so they can move things along with Mr Fs 
mortgage application.   
Mr F emails Nationwide a few days later with a copy of his credit file and refers to the 
incorrect entries which have been reported by Nationwide. In relation to loan account ending 
*513 the credit file shows a two missed payments marker for May 2018 but Mr F says there 
was an arrangement to pay in place since October 2013. In relation to loan account ending 
*426 the credit file shows a default marker for August 2015 but Mr F says payments were 
made in line with his agreement up to and including July 2015 and then continued from 
September 2015. 
Nationwide respond the following day and refer to a phone call the same day and say they 
will be completely removing the default for account ending *426. And, in relation to account 
ending *513 they will be updating the credit file to show an arrangement to pay for the period 
of the loan between August 2014 to May 2018, after which this will show an OK marker in 
June 2018 and settled in July. 
Mr F responds over a week later and says the credit file hasnt been updated correctly. He 
says the default for account ending *426 hasnt been removed but is instead showing as one 
month in arrears from March 2015 until December 2016. And, account ending *513 has had 
an arrangement to pay applied until March 2018 and is then still showing as five months 
arrears in April 2018 and two months arrears in May 2018. Mr F says Lender B require this 
to be updated otherwise his mortgage application will be declined. Lender B email Mr F later 
that day and decline his mortgage application. They say the underwriters determine their 
lending based on the information held by the CRAs and this is the reason the application 
cant proceed at this time. 
Over the next few months Mr F raises complaints and chases Nationwide for updates. Mr F 
is told by Nationwide they dont have a record of his complaint and he raises another 
complaint. Nationwide say they will rectify the errors but Mr F checks his credit file but the 
incorrect entries still havent been rectified. Mr F is then given deadlines for an outcome to 
his complaint which continue to change. For example, Nationwide write to Mr F on 23 
October 2020 acknowledging his complaint and saying they hope to be in a position to 
resolve the complaint by 5 November. Having not heard back, Mr F chases and Nationwide 
write again on 19 November to say theyre still not in a position to provide an outcome to the 
complaint but expect to be in a position to do so by 10 December. 
There is then some confusion on Nationwides part about the accounts and they explain to 
Mr F theyre unable to locate the loan accounts. Nationwide then accept they shouldve done 
things sooner and offer Mr F compensation. Mr Fs credit file was eventually corrected in 
June 2021.  Theres a number of factors here that Ive taken into consideration when deciding what I 
think is a fair and reasonable level of compensation. The first point relates to the time it took 
Nationwide to correct the error. Mr F first becomes aware of the problem in July 2020 and 
promptly notifies Nationwide about this and asks them to put this right. The entries arent 
corrected until nearly one year later. I think this is an unreasonable period of time for Mr F to 
have to wait for information to be corrected on his credit file. The information shows that, 
during this period, Mr F is given assurances by Nationwide that the information will be 
rectified. Its clear from Mr Fs communication with Nationwide that hes upset and anxious 
for this to be sorted. So, its understandable his upset and frustration was exacerbated when 
he checks his credit file, after Nationwide say they will rectify the issue, to discover it still 
hasnt been corrected.      
Mr Fs mortgage application with Lender B was declined and his property purchase fell 
through as he couldnt obtain a mortgage to satisfy the offer hed made on the property. Mr F 
was able to secure a mortgage through Nationwide later but theres a clear impact here in 
that Lender B do appear to have taken account of Mr Fs credit file when considering his 
mortgage application. The email Lender B send to Mr F refers to the underwriters taking into 
account information held by the CRAs. And, in this case, the information they will have taken 
into account in relation to the two loans wasnt correct. Theres about a two-week period 
between Mr F notifying Nationwide about the issue and Lender B declining the mortgage 
application. Given the circumstances, I think Nationwide couldve looked into the issue with a 
degree of urgency while Mr Fs mortgage application was going through. 
I can see Mr F says Lender Bs mortgage offer contained more preferential terms than the 
one he took out with Nationwide, in particular, he wouldve been required to pay a 10% 
deposit as opposed to the 15% deposit he had to pay Nationwide. This meant he had to 
borrow more from a family member. Mr F says as a result of Nationwides error, he wants a 
more favourable mortgage where he can release some equity for his family member and one 
which is similar to the deal which was offered by Lender B. I dont think it would be fair for 
me to ask Nationwide to pay for the difference in the mortgage terms. I say this because 
lenders will have their own lending criteria and will consider a range of factors. In this case, I 
havent seen Lender Bs criteria for a mortgage so I cant say the credit file was the only 
factor which was going to be considered. And, I havent seen any information which 
suggests Mr F was guaranteed the mortgage had it not been for the incorrect information 
appearing on his credit file. That said, it clearly was a contributing factor as shown by the 
emails Lender B send to Mr F about correcting this information and then declining his 
application. So, I think its understandable that Mr F was left upset that his mortgage 
application with Lender B was assessed against incorrect information on his credit file. 
Mr F also says, because of the incorrect information reported by Nationwide he has only 
been able to access high cost credit so he feels Nationwide should pay the difference in the 
interest on the products he had to take out and what he would've got had the information 
been correct. While I do fully acknowledge Mr Fs frustrations around this, I cant fairly ask 
Nationwide to meet any difference in the interest. This is because I havent seen any 
information which shows Mr F wouldve received more favourable interest rates on any 
products had the loan information been accurately reported. A lender will consider a range of 
factors when deciding the terms on which they agree to lend to a customer and ultimately 
this is a commercial decision. 
However, I believe its more likely than not those lending decisions were made with some 
consideration given to what was showing on Mr Fs credit file. So, I do think Mr Fs upset and 
frustration around this is reasonable given that those lending decisions were made on the 
basis of incorrect information.  The final point Ive considered is Mr Fs personal circumstances. At the time of his mortgage 
application with Lender B, he was living with his family in a small flat. This was around the 
time of a national lockdown which brought about more urgency for Mr F to move into larger 
housing. While I cant say the incorrect information was the sole reason for the mortgage 
application being declined, Ive explained why I think it was a contributing factor. So, I feel 
its completely reasonable and understandable for Mr F to be very upset and frustrated about 
his mortgage application being declined  and his property move becoming delayed  as a 
result of Nationwides error. And, I think the fact Nationwide did attempt to amend the 
information on Mr Fs credit file during the mortgage application process  but didnt do so 
correctly  further compounds his upset and frustration.           
Taking this all into account, I think Nationwide should pay additional compensation of £800. I 
think this is reasonable in the circumstances and fairly reflects the upset, frustration and 
inconvenience to Mr F.   
  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Nationwide made an error in reporting incorrect information to the 
CRAs and then delayed in correcting it. So, in addition to the £250 already paid to Mr F, they 
should pay an additional £800 for the upset, frustration and inconvenience  bringing the 
total paid for this complaint to £1,050. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Nationwide Building Society must pay £800 
compensation to Mr F. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman