DRN-2928781
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Post Office Management Services Limited (Post Office) mis-sold her 
an upgrade to her travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs W bought a single trip travel insurance policy from Post Office in December 2019, to 
cover a holiday which was due to take place in April 2020. The original policy was purchased 
online.
In February 2020, Mrs W contacted Post Office by telephone to ask if her policy would 
provide cover for cancellation if the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against 
travelling abroad or if the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared a pandemic. Mrs W 
says she was told her existing policy wouldnt provide this cover, so she purchased a 
Natural Catastrophe/Terrorism upgrade from Post Office. 
In March 2020, Mrs W contacted Post Office again and says she was told shed be covered 
for the scenarios mentioned above. Mrs W asked for confirmation of the position in writing at 
various points, as well as for copies of the calls shed had with Post Office. However, Mrs W 
subsequently found out she didnt have cover under her policy if her trip was cancelled due 
to the FCO advising against travel abroad. 
Mrs W complained to Post Office, who said shed never been told she could buy cover for 
cancellation due to the FCO advising against travel, as this wasnt an option for customers at 
the time Mrs W purchased the upgrade. As Mrs W remained unhappy, she brought her 
complaint to the attention of our service.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said he didnt think Post Office had 
provided Mrs W with unclear or misleading information. Mrs W didnt agree so the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision about this complaint, Im only looking at what Post Office is 
responsible for. This is the information given to Mrs W during the telephone calls in February 
2020 and March 2020. I wont be commenting on anything the underwriter (provider) of 
Mrs Ws travel insurance policy did, as this is a different business who Mrs W had a separate 
complaint with our service about. 
When selling a policy upgrade like this one, industry rules set out by the regulator say a 
business should provide information which is clear, fair and not misleading to allow the 
consumer to make an informed choice about whether to buy the policy. 
Ive listened to the telephone calls between Mrs W and Post Office which took place in 
February 2020 and March 2020. Im satisfied, based on the information Ive been provided 
with, that these recordings contain complete versions of the calls between Mrs W and Post 
Office. I understand Mrs W had to request copies of these calls from Post Office several 
times  and there was a significant delay before these calls were provided to her - but Ive 
seen no evidence which would lead me to believe that these call recordings were amended 
or interfered with by Post Office in any way. 
During the call in February 2020, Mrs W asked Post Office if she would be covered in the 
event of the FCO advising against travel. The adviser said no, but that Post Office did sell an 
optional upgrade (Natural Catastrophe/Terrorism cover) which would provide cover for 
cancellation in the event of the WHO declaring a pandemic. Mrs W clarified her 
understanding of what the advisor had said by stating that she wouldnt currently be covered 
if the WHO declared a pandemic  but she would if she purchased the optional cover 
upgrade. Mrs W then confirmed she wanted to go ahead and purchase Natural 
Catastrophe/Terrorism cover. 
The adviser went on to read out the features of the Natural Catastrophe/Terrorism upgrade 
as also including cover for events such as volcanic ash, tsunamis and terrorism events 
which occurred within 7 days of Mrs Ws trip and within 20 kms of Mrs Ws destination. The 
advisor outlined that costs which Mrs W could not claim back from elsewhere would be 
covered under the upgrade and that full details of the upgrade would be set out in 
Mrs Ws policy documentation. He said it was important for Mrs W to read her documents 
carefully to ensure that the cover met her needs and explained she had a 14-day cooling off 
period within which to cancel the upgrade and receive a refund of the additional premium 
paid. 
I understand Mrs W says she told the adviser she didnt wish for him to read through the 
policy information if he was assuring her that she would be covered if the FCO advised 
against travel. I dont doubt Mrs Ws recollections of what was discussed, but recollections 
can fade over time and this wasnt something which was said in the call recordings from 
February 2020 which Ive listened to. 
When Mrs W contacted Post Office again in March 2020, the adviser explained that she 
wasnt covered in the event of the FCO advising against travel and that her policy upgrade 
only provided cover if the WHO declared a pandemic. When the adviser called Mrs W back 
later that day, this was to confirm cover for specific medical conditions/procedures which 
Mrs W had mentioned  the call didnt relate to cover for the FCO advising against travel and 
at no point did the adviser Mrs W spoke to in March 2020 say she was covered for this. 
Its clear Mrs W feels strongly about this situation, but Post Office didnt tell her shed be 
covered if the FCO advised against travel. I also dont think Post Office suggested to Mrs W 
or led her to believe that she did have such cover. 
I understand cover for the FCO advising against travel was part of the cover which Mrs W 
asked for  and Post Office didnt specifically tell her that it didnt provide this cover at that 
time  but all the discussions during the February 2020 call centred around the WHO 
declaring a pandemic. Mrs W may have assumed that the upgrade did provide cover for the 
FCO advising against travel, but I think the information provided by the adviser about the 
upgrade was clear and I dont think it was misleading. Im therefore satisfied that Post Office 
didnt mis-sell the Natural Catastrophe/Terrorism upgrade to Mrs W. 
I understand Mrs W feels she has had no benefit from the policy and that she paid for 
something she didnt receive. However, the underwriter of Mrs Ws policy provided cover for cancellation for specific, listed insured events (such as cancellation due to illness) from the 
day the policy was purchased. 
No insurance provides unlimited cover and all insurance policies are subject to terms, 
conditions and exclusions. Most, if not all, travel insurance policies on the market only 
provide cover for costs which are non-refundable, and which cant be recovered from 
elsewhere. And, the Natural Catastrophe/Terrorism upgrade is subject to terms and 
conditions relating to the timing and location of a pandemic which Post Offices adviser 
outlined to Mrs W. Mrs W had the benefit of the insurance cover while it was in force and the 
fact that a claim was ultimately unsuccessful doesnt automatically mean the policy was of 
no use to her.  
I understand Post Office may subsequently have offered cover for the FCO advising against 
travel to its customers. But this doesnt mean Post Office should have offered this cover to 
Mrs W at an earlier point. The risk which an underwriter is prepared to accept at different 
times and at different costs is, ultimately, a commercial decision which the provider of these 
policies is entitled to make. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs W but I dont think Post Office acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
the circumstances, so I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman