DRN-3489403
The complaint
Mr C complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) provided him with credit he couldnt afford to 
repay.
What happened
MBNA approved a credit card application for Mr C in November 2017. They initially provided 
a credit limit of £5,200 but in August 2018 they increased the credit limit to £7,200.
Mr C says they were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
MBNA disagree. They say that when they approved the credit card application they used a 
combination of credit reference agency, computer modelling, and self-reported information to 
assess the application and subsequent limit increase. They said that when they approved 
the card application, and when they approved the limit increase, Mr Cs credit file 
demonstrated that he was managing his credit commitments well; there were no County 
Court Judgments against him, no arrears on his accounts and no defaults. They said they 
estimated that he would have enough disposable income to be able to sustainably pay the 
credit they were offering. 
Our investigator thought the checks MBNA had carried out were proportionate and he didnt 
think theyd done anything wrong.
Mr C didnt agree. He said it should have been obvious to MBNA that he was a pensioner at 
the time and that hed missed payments on some credit accounts in 2019. He therefore 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Account opening.
I think MBNA completed proportionate checks before approving the credit card. They 
reviewed Mr Cs credit file and gathered some information from him about his income and 
circumstances. The information Mr C provided suggested he was employed and earning 
26,000 per year. There was some unsecured debt on his credit file but that was reasonably 
limited, and Mr C was performing well on his other credit commitments; hed not incurred any 
defaults on those accounts and was not in arrears. There was also no evidence of any 
County Court Judgments either and I dont think there was anything that suggested MBNA 
needed to verify the income Mr C had reported. On that basis I dont think MBNA were 
wrong to approve the credit card application.
The limit increase in August 2018
MBNA have explained that they applied the same checks when they approved the limit 
increase in 2018. By that time, they had also been able to review Mr Cs performance on his 
account with them. Mr C was working within his credit limit and had been making at least the 
minimum payments. The credit reference agencies were reporting a very good performance 
on his other credit commitments and there was no adverse information on Mr Cs credit file, 
the income hed declared, and MBNAs estimation of his living expenses suggested the 
credit was affordable. I dont think MBNA were therefore wrong to offer an enhanced limit. It 
seems Mr C didnt use any of that enhanced limit anyway so even if that extended credit limit 
was unaffordable to him theres be no interest or charges to refund to him on that amount.
Mr C has provided some information about his credit file, but hes not provided a full credit 
file for me to review. That file shows some missed payments on his other credit accounts but 
those missed payments were in 2019, after the last credit limit increase. So, I dont think it 
would be fair to suggest they were matters MBNA could have considered when approving 
the credit.
Overall, Im not persuaded that MBNA were irresponsible when providing the credit that they 
did.
I understand that Mr C is also upset that MBNA refused to agree a payment plan with him in 
December 2020, but I dont think that decision was unreasonable. The income and 
expenditure review that was completed suggested that Mr C didnt have any disposable 
income with which to pay towards a plan. In those circumstances I dont think they were 
wrong to default the account as there seemed no likelihood Mr C could afford to contribute 
towards the debt.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman