DRN-2413133
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) increased her home 
insurance premiums when she asked it not to do so.
What happened
Miss W wrote to Lloyds to say that she wouldnt be able to afford it if her premiums 
increased when her insurance policy renewed. When the renewal documents were sent, 
Miss Ws premium had increased.
So, Miss W complained to Lloyds. Lloyds replied and said that the premium was correct and 
based on a range of factors. It said it had sent a renewal document that explained Miss Ws 
options at renewal.
Miss W complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
she didnt think Lloyds had unfairly increased the premium. She said she had seen evidence 
that Lloyds had responded to Miss Ws complaint.
As Miss W did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision 20 November 2020. In my provisional decision I explained 
the reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
Im aware that Miss Ws concern was that she didnt think Lloyds had taken into account a 
letter she had written saying that, due to other financial commitments, she wouldnt be able 
to afford an increase in insurance premiums as she hadnt budgeted for this.
As part of looking at this complaint, I noted that Lloyds hadnt provided a copy of the letter 
that Miss W said she sent or referred to it in its response to her complaint. So I asked Lloyds 
to comment on this. Lloyds checked its records and couldnt find any evidence of receiving a 
letter from Miss W about her insurance premiums that matched the date she said she had 
sent it. However, it did identify a letter that Miss W had sent on that date which related to a 
banking issue. Lloyds provided a copy of that letter and some related records. Having read 
those documents and the ones for this complaint, Im satisfied that there was no indication 
that Lloyds received a letter about Miss Ws insurance premiums and that the letter Lloyds 
received, sent on the relevant date, was about an unrelated matter that isnt relevant to this 
complaint.
I should make clear that this doesnt mean that I dont think Miss W sent the letter. But I 
havent seen any evidence that Lloyds received it or that it therefore failed to respond to it. 
So, I cant see that Lloyds did anything wrong when it calculated the premium or sent the 
renewal letter, as it did this based on the information available to it at the time.
When Miss W received the renewal letter she then complained to Lloyds because, despite 
her saying she couldnt afford an increase, her premium went up. So, Miss W thought that 
Lloyds had ignored her first letter. However, as Ive explained above, I think Lloyds didnt 
receive the first letter. 
Lloyds responded to Miss Ws complaint and explained, in general terms, how it calculated 
premiums. In the circumstances, I think it responded reasonably to the complaint based on 
the information that it had available to it. Im also aware that the timescales for Lloyds to 
respond to the complaint were longer than Miss W had to decide whether she wanted to 
renew her policy, so Miss W didnt receive the response before the policy renewed. 
However, how Lloyds deals with complaints, and the timescales for doing so, are outside of 
the remit of this service. But, I note that Lloyds seems to have replied within the deadline for 
responding to complaints.
Ive also looked at the reasons Miss W gave in her complaint letter for not wanting her 
premium to increase. Miss W explained that she couldnt afford an increased premium due 
to the other expenses that had arisen in the previous year. I can understand that Miss W felt 
she had other costs that were more important for her to cover than an increase in insurance 
premiums. However, insurers are entitled to set a premium at the level they think is 
appropriate based on factors that it thinks are relevant to calculate the premium. This service 
cant tell Lloyds what premium it should charge. I also dont think that Lloyds had to reduce 
the premium as a result of Miss Ws letter or that it did anything wrong by not doing so.
Ive also read the renewal letter. This explained that, as she had been a policyholder for a 
number of years, Miss W might get a better price by shopping around. The letter also 
provided a phone number if Miss W wanted to discuss the renewal. So, I think Lloyds was 
clear that there were other options than simply renewing the policy that might result in a 
lower premium.
Thinking about all of the above, I dont intend to uphold this complaint or require Lloyds to do 
anything further. This is because I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Lloyds 
received, or ignored, the letter from Miss W. So, I think that Lloyds sent its renewal letter 
based on the information available to it at the time. I also think the renewal letter explained 
that Miss W could contact Lloyds if she wanted to discuss her renewal and that she might 
get a better deal by not simply renewing. When Lloyds responded to Miss Ws complaint, it 
did so based on the information it had available to it and wasnt required to reduce its 
renewal premium because Miss W asked it to do so. 
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 20 December 2020. Both parties responded before that date.
Miss W said that she had sent a letter and gave a date 10 days earlier than she had 
previously provided as part of her complaint. She said that Lloyds hadnt replied.
Lloyds said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, in line with the reasons given in 
my provisional decision.
Im aware that Miss W has more recently provided a different date on which she wrote to 
Lloyds explaining why she didnt want her premium to increase at renewal. Having looked at 
the circumstances of this complaint again, I note that Miss W consistently gave a specific 
date on which she wrote to Lloyds about her insurance renewal. This included when Miss W 
complained to Lloyds about not receiving a response and also when she raised her complaint with this service. It was only when this service was dealing with the complaint that 
Miss W gave a different date, 10 days earlier, on which she sent the letter.
Miss W seems to hand write her letters and I havent seen a letter to Lloyds dated with either 
of the dates. This doesnt mean that I dont think Miss W sent a letter on one of those dates. 
However, Ive looked at the records provided by Lloyds and havent seen any evidence that 
it received a letter from Miss W about her insurance renewal written on either of those dates.
I can understand that Miss W thinks that Lloyds should have responded to her concerns 
before her policy renewed. But given I haven't seen evidence that it received the letter, it 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to say that it should have responded. However, it did receive 
Miss Ws complaint and responded to that. In the circumstances, I think that was all Lloyds 
was able to do.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Lloyds seems to have issued Miss Ws renewal 
letter based on the information that it had available to it at the time. Lloyds explained some 
options to Miss W if she wasnt happy with the renewal premium. It also responded to Miss 
Ws complaint and explained, in general terms, how it calculated an insurance premium. But 
I havent seen anything that makes me think that Lloyds was required to reduce the 
insurance premium or that it ignored Miss Ws letter requesting that it do so. From what Ive 
seen, Lloyds didnt receive the letter.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Lloyds to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman