DRN-2312979
The complaint
Mrs F has complained about Legal and General Assurance Society Limited. She is unhappy 
that it made two payments to her instead of one when she asked for a drawdown payment 
from her pension. This has resulted in her having a higher tax liability
What happened
.
Mrs F has a pension with L&G. In 2018 she requested a drawdown payment and expected 
to receive £29,892.51 before tax. She was paid £21,749.99 net of tax. But then, only a few 
days later, a further payment was made into her account for a similar amount, £21,750.06.
Mrs F says that she didnt notice the second payment at the time. She was in the process of 
moving and a lot of funds were moving through her account. Also, L&G failed to send any 
confirmation letter which would have alerted her to the second payment. Mrs F says that she 
only became aware of the second payment when she received a tax bill because she was 
liable for higher tax given the income paid during that year, 2018/19. By that time the money 
had been spent.
Mrs F complained to L&G, she asked it to meet the additional tax. L&G said no, it accepted it 
had made an error but said that it would reasonably have expected that Mr F would have 
noticed the receipt of an extra £21,000 into her account. It offered £200 for its poor service.
Mrs F didnt agree and referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld the 
complaint in part and said L&G should pay an additional £200 (so £400 in total). She didnt 
think L&G should meet the additional tax payment because Mrs F had use of the money and 
it would have been reasonable to expect that she would have noticed receiving the extra 
£21,000. However, she thought that Mrs F hadnt been able to mitigate her loss as 
effectively because she hadnt received notification of the payment and so L&G should 
increase its award by £200.
L&G agreed but Mrs F didnt. She said that she had asked for one payment, not two and she 
hadnt signed for any money.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator. I uphold this complaint in part.
L&G made an error and sent a duplicate payment. But it was for a substantial amount, over 
£21,000 after tax. I think it is reasonable to expect that Mrs F would have noticed receipt of 
this payment into her account. I think this is so regardless of what other transactions were 
taking place at the time. Had she noticed, which I think she ought to have done, the error 
could have been corrected at the time.
Mrs F has spent the money and had the benefit of it. She asks that L&G pays the additional 
tax liability, but I dont think that would be fair or reasonable. Im satisfied that Mrs F ought to 
have noticed the additional payment and had she done so it could have been repaid and the 
tax liability avoided.
Mrs F says that she didnt ask for or sign for the second payment. That may be true, but the 
fact remains that she did receive it and has had the use and benefit of it. The tax liability 
could have been avoided if the payment had been repaid, and I think Mrs F ought 
reasonably to have been aware of it despite not receiving a written notification. As I have 
said, it was for a substantial amount.
Overall, I agree that Mrs Fs position will have been inconvenienced by L&Gs failure to send 
a letter to confirm the transaction (although I still think she ought to have noticed it). And I 
think it would be fair to make an award of £400 in total taking into account this service failure 
and the trouble and upset it has caused.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Legal and General Assurance Society Limited must pay Mrs F 
£400 (to the extent it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman