DRN-2393305
The complaint
Mr G and Miss M are complaining that Cumberland Building Society wont refund a 
transaction they didnt authorise from their joint account. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision: 
Miss M received a text message from someone claiming to be her mobile provider, 
EE, asking her to update her payment details. In response to this, Miss M followed 
the link and provided her card details.  
On 8 November 2019, Miss M received a call from someone who said they were from 
Cumberland Building Society. They told her that someone had requested a loan, 
which theyd block  and that theyd also made four transactions. To stop these, they 
asked her to share four one-time passcodes that had been sent to her by text.  
Between 15:34 and 16:14 that same day, four payments were attempted to Argos, 
using Miss Ms card. Cumberland stopped two payments and Argos refunded 
another. So, the total loss for which Mr G and Miss M seek compensation is one 
payment for £1,199.00.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, Miss M isnt liable for payments 
she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with 
the terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe.
Cumberland argue that Miss M authorised the payments by sharing the one-time 
passcodes with the fraudster. But, to authorise a payment, Miss M would need to 
complete all the agreed steps to make the payment or give someone else permission 
to complete these steps.  
Having reviewed the cards terms and conditions to see how payments are 
authorised online, they refer to the account holder entering the passcode into the 
authorisation screen presented by the online merchant. Similarly, it refers to how the 
provider of goods may request the account holder to provide additional information, 
like the 16-digit card number, the cards expiry date and 3-digit security number. 
Here, its not disputed that it was the fraudster who entered the required information, 
including passcodes, onto Argos website to complete the payments. So it cant be 
said that the account holder, Miss M, completed the agreed steps. 
Neither am I persuaded that Miss M gave someone else permission to carry out 
these steps on her behalf. She was convinced to share information under the false 
premise that she was dealing with her phone provider and her bank. So she didnt 
hand it over with the knowledge that payments would be made. Indeed, its clear she 
didnt recognise how shed been deceived and that payments had left her account 
until Cumberland contacted her after the scam.  
I dont think Miss M failed with intent to keep her details safe  she genuinely 
believed that firstly, she was dealing with her phone provider to update her details, 
and secondly, her bank to stop fraudulent transactions. 
Im also not satisfied Miss M failed with gross negligence. She received a message 
which appeared to come from her genuine phone provider, which asked her to 
update her payment details. 
Cumberland say she ought to have realised something was wrong, given that she 
paid EE by direct debit. But I can see how she wouldnt have made that connection in 
the moment. In saying this, Ive considered how a lot of people have numerous 
payment obligations with various businesses  some which use card details under 
continuous payment authorities, and others which use direct debit. And its not 
uncommon that genuine business do ask to update payment information from time to 
time  for example, when an expected payment fails. It follows that I dont think Miss 
M actions in following what she believed were EEs instructions meant that she fell so 
far below what a reasonable person would do that she failed with gross negligence. 
Miss M was later contacted by someone posing as Cumberland Building Society. The 
fraudster spoofed Cumberlands genuine number, so I can understand why she 
wouldve been trusting of the call. 
Miss M was presented with a worrying situation that was time-sensitive. They told her 
someone was making fraudulent transactions on her account  and to stop this, 
shed need to share the passcodes sent to her by text. 
Cumberland think its clear from the content of the text that this would be used for 
payments. Ive reviewed an example of what wouldve been sent: [Number] is the 
One-Time Passcode (OTP) for transaction of [amount] originating from [merchant], 
for your [card details].
In the heat of the moment, believing she was dealing with a trusted professional and 
her money was risk, I can see how Miss M wouldnt have read the message in its 
entirety  and instead focussed on providing the passcodes that she believed would 
stop fraudulent transactions. But even if she read it carefully, Im not convinced that 
she wouldve been alerted that something untoward was going on. The message 
simply refers to a transaction  and this couldve plausibly been those she believed 
she was stopping. 
Cumberland have also pointed out the warnings its issued about phishing texts and 
calls. But I can see how someone might not recall these general messages in the 
circumstances of a scam  particularly when theyre also faced with what they 
believe are serious and immediate risks if they dont take action.  
On this basis, I dont think Miss M acted with such a significant degree of 
carelessness that she failed with gross negligence. So I conclude that Mr G and Miss M arent liable for the transactions and Cumberland need to put things right  by 
refunding their losses from these unauthorised transactions alongside interest to 
compensate them for the time theyve been out of pocket.
Ive noted theres also been a dispute about whether these payments are distance 
contracts, and so, whether its relevant to consider whether Miss M failed with intent 
or gross negligence. Cumberland argue that Argos terms and conditions indicate 
theyre not distance contracts  but the section theyve referred to mentions specific 
clothing and FastTrack orders, which Im not convinced these were. In any event, 
given that I dont think Mr G and Miss M can be held liable, even considering intent 
and gross negligence, Ive not explored this further.
I note Cumberland paid Mr G and Miss M £50 for how it dealt with things after the 
scam happened. And I think thats a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience 
caused by it not sorting this out sooner. So I dont make any further award for Mr Gs 
and Miss Ms non-financial losses here.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr G and Miss Ms complaint and I order 
Cumberland Building Society to:
Pay Mr G and Miss M the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount 
already refunded. I understand this to be £1,199.00.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman