DRN-2175015
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the way One Insurance Limited handled a claim on her home 
insurance policy, and delays in the claim settlement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
The claim on Mrs Ls insurance policy has now been settled in full, and One Insurance have 
acknowledged there were some avoidable delays in reaching the settlement. Our 
investigator thought that One Insurance should pay Mrs L £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her by the claims process and delays, however One Insurance 
thought £350 was more appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator, for these reasons:
Mrs L expressed her dissatisfaction with the work of the appointed contractor early 
on in the process, allowing One Insurance the opportunity to appoint an alternative 
contractor should they wish. But they didnt.
There were considerable delays caused during the claim, with One Insurance 
disputing the price of the quotes for the works that Mrs L provided, and saying they 
would only cover the cost theyd pay their own contractor.
As there were small children living in a house with considerable damage, Mrs L felt 
she had no alternative but to take the financial risk and pay for the works herself, 
knowing there was a possibility that One Insurance could decline, or only partially 
settle the claim.
Having lodged the claim in July 2019, it was not settled by One Insurance until March 
2020, which is longer than I would reasonably expect.
Putting things right
I am satisfied that in the circumstances, £500 is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience One Insurance caused Mrs L.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require One Insurance Limited to pay Mrs L £500 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman