DRN-4013110
The complaint
Mr M complains British Gas Insurance Limited have unfairly declined his Home Emergency 
Insurance claim.
All references to British Gas also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr M said when he took the policy out in 2007, he was told all further blockages will 
be dealt with free of charge. Ive reviewed the document hes provided, but this is a 
quotation and doesnt include details of the cover or a guarantee of all further 
blockages being provided free of charge.
British Gas provided a copy of its job reports, back to October 2015. I note Mr Ms 
comments the policy was taken out before this, but British Gas have confirmed it 
doesnt have records going back further than this. A business is not required to keep 
records for older than six years, so it hasnt acted unreasonably here.
From reviewing the job reports, I can see British Gas has tried to flush the system 
previously. 
Around October 2018 it shows a power flush was ineffective and it also details the 
type of pipework. So, I think its more likely than not, based on the information 
available to me, and in the absence of anything to contradict it, a conversation about 
the reasons the power flush failed, and the pipework, took place during October 
2018.
British Gas said it refunded Mr M a payment for the 2018 power flush, but Mr M 
disagrees. Mr M should review his bank account and if he feels this money was 
never refunded, he should provide sufficient evidence, such as statements for the 
relevant account, to British Gas to consider.
British Gas said the issues experienced are due to a build-up of sludge in the 
pipework. Which I can see isnt covered under the policy. It says the build-up of 
sludge has been caused due to the type of pipework in place in the property- and I 
can also see the policy doesnt cover pre-existing or design faults. As the pipework 
was in place prior the policy starting, Im satisfied it would be classed as pre-existing.
I appreciate Mr M is frustrated this wasnt discussed with him during servicing or 
when British Gas had attended to do previous repairs. But a build-up of sludge is by 
nature gradual. And from reviewing everything available Ive not seen any evidence 
to persuade me this would have presented itself, or should have been highlighted, 
during an annual service or previous repairs.
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman