DRN-3418479
The complaint
Mr P complains that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Limited (BHIIL) declined a 
claim under his motor insurance policy, and complaints about the standard of service he 
received. 
Mr P is represented by his father, also Mr P. For clarity I will refer to the policyholder Mr P in 
my decision.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr P noticed his vehicle had been stolen and he made a claim to BHIIL. 
He says it had been kept at a friends property, which he rented part of for storage purposes. 
Mr P says he had previously tried to add this vehicle onto his policy but hadnt been able to 
do this online. 
BHIIL declined the claim. It says a vehicle is covered when its parked at Mr Ps permanent 
residence, when its being driven, or when temporarily parked during the course of a journey.  
It isnt covered when being stored at the location Mr P confirmed. It also says the vehicle 
wasnt named on Mr Ps policy. Had it been made aware of the type of vehicle Mr P wanted 
to insure its underwriters wouldnt have offered cover. 
Mr P didnt think this was fair. He referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. He says there is no evidence to show Mr P tried to add the vehicle to 
his policy prior to the theft. The policy provides cover for specific named vehicles, as the 
stolen vehicle wasnt listed, Our investigator didnt think BHIIL acted unfairly in declining the 
claim. He also referred to the underwriting criteria that doesnt provide cover for vehicles with 
this body type. 
Mr P disagreed with our investigators view. He says online reviews for the business give 
negative ratings, and thinks this service should consider, the bigger picture. Mr P refers to 
BHIIL using entrapment techniques during the first notification of loss call. He says there is 
no requirement in the policy to update vehicle details on the online register, and the terms 
dont require motor vehicles covered by the policy to be named.
Mr P says his vehicle was temporarily at another address for the purposes of a sale. He 
doesnt think its fair to solely rely on the information provided when the claim was first made. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. So, Mr P asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Let me explain.
Mr P has a commercial insurance policy with BHIIL. I have read the policy documents to 
understand what cover this provides. The policy schedule says:
Cover  Comprehensive
Vehicles  Any motor vehicle as described on the Certificate of Motor Insurance.
The certificate of motor insurance says:
Description of vehicle(s): Any motor vehicle (excluding motorcycles unless rider is permitted 
by endorsement, vehicles with a G.V.W. in excess of 7.5 tonnes or capable of carrying more 
than two vehicles, or any vehicle with a seating capacity in excess of eight seats) the 
property of the insured or in their custody or control for Motor Trade purposes.
The policy terms say:
We rely on the information given to Us being correct, complete and representing a fair 
presentation of the risk, if it was not, You must tell Us immediately, otherwise this insurance 
may be subject to an increase in premium, change in terms and conditions, Your claim not 
being fully paid or the Policy may be void and of no effect and the annual premium possibly 
retained. 
You must also tell Us about any future changes which affect the fair presentation of the risk. 
If You do not, then this insurance may be subject to an increase in premium, change in 
terms and conditions, Your claim not being fully paid or the Policy may be void and of no 
effect and the annual premium possibly retained.
From this I think its clear Mr P was required to inform BHIIL of any changes, including the 
vehicles he wanted to be insured. The terms also say:
3. The Company will provide Insurance subject to the terms of this Policy while an Insured 
Vehicle is:
a) Being used on any road or temporarily garaged or parked during the course of a 
journey in or on any premises not owned by or in the occupation of the Insured or 
any partner, director, employee or person named or described in the Schedule;
b)Garaged or parked at the Permanent Residence of the Insured as described in the 
Schedule and/or the Statement of Fact;
 Permanent residence is defined in the policy terms as:
13. Home/Permanent Residence shall mean the address shown on the Statement of Fact 
and Schedule as being the permanent residence of the Insured and the place where the 
Insured Vehicle is kept. 
I understand the location from where Mr Ps vehicle was stolen, isnt the address detailed on 
his policy schedule. 
I have listened to the call recording when Mr P first contacted BHIIL to make his claim. 
During this call hes asked where the vehicle was located at the time of the theft. Mr P 
confirms the location, which isnt his address, and says the vehicle was left in a locked 
compound. Mr P gives the name of the person who owns the compound and says that he 
rents space to store vehicles, when he has too many. Mr P is asked when the vehicle was 
stolen. He says he knows it was there on Thursday, and believes it was on Saturday morning when he was made aware it was gone. Mr P explains that he doesnt always, go up 
there every day, with reference to the compound where he sometimes stores vehicles.
Based on the information provided in this call, BHIILs view seems reasonable that the 
vehicle wasnt covered by its policy. The vehicle wasnt parked or garaged at the specified 
permanent residence, and it wasnt temporarily parked during the course of a journey.
In a later email to BHIIL Mr P says the vehicle had been transported in a trailer in order to 
demonstrate it to a prospective buyer. He says the buyer wanted to test it on the road and as 
an all-terrain vehicle. Mr P says he had arranged to stay with the owner of the property, 
where he previously advised the vehicle was being stored. He says he often does this as the 
owner is a long-time friend, and he combines business with pleasure. 
In his email Mr P says he doesnt rent the property owned by his friend. He says the vehicle 
hadnt been stored at that location and he had no intention of doing so. Had it not been sold 
he says it will have been returned to its normal storage location. He says the vehicle was 
parked during the course of a journey, and so is covered by the policy. 
I have thought about Mr Ps comments. But I dont think its unreasonable for BHIIL to rely on 
the information he provided over the phone when he first reported his claim. I acknowledge 
he thinks this was a form of entrapment used by the business to reject legitimate claims. 
But having listened to the call, the questions are clear, and Mr P is clear in his responses. 
BHIIL isnt willing to accept the later account of events, as it feels this was changed to fit with 
the policy terms. In the circumstances I dont think the business behaved unfairly when 
relying on the information Mr P gave initially.
I have also thought about Mr Ps testimony that he tried to add the vehicle online but was 
unable to do so using the registration. He also describes difficulty getting through to BHIIL by 
phone to make the update.
BHIIL says it contacted the company that manages the vehicle look-up system in light of Mr 
Ps claim. It has supplied information that shows no attempts were made to add this vehicle 
to the policy using this system, until just after the reported theft. It also says it has searched 
for calls received from Mr Ps telephone number, and the additional numbers he said he 
might have used  but it found no trace of a call. BHIIL says Mr P was asked if he could 
supply records showing he made a call or calls, but this information wasnt provided.
BHIIL points to the information Mr P gave when he registered his claim. It says he was 
asked why he hadnt added the vehicle to the policy. I have listened to this part of the call. In 
response Mr P says he had tried to add the vehicle using his mobile phone but, it couldnt 
find it, referring to the online system. He says he decided to do it later using a computer but 
that it had, slipped his mind.   
I have considered the records provided. I think this reasonably shows the earliest record of 
the vehicle registration being searched on BHIILs online system was on the date Mr P made 
his claim. The business has provided a screen shot of the vehicles registration being added 
to the system. The following message can be seen on the screen shot:
Unfortunately no cover can be granted under this policy for this vehicle due to unacceptable 
body.     
Based on the evidence provided, I think BHIIL has reasonably shown there is no online 
record of Mr P adding the vehicle until after the theft and no record of a phone call. It has 
also shown that its underwriting criteria meant it wouldnt have offered cover for this vehicle 
even if it had received Mr Ps request.In considering all of this, although Im sorry Mr P has incurred a loss, I dont think BHIIL 
treated him unfairly when relying on its policy terms and declining his claim for the reasons 
given here. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman