DRN-1912617
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint is about a mortgage they have with Fleet Mortgages Ltd. They 
arranged the mortgage for a rental property they own and are unhappy with the amount of 
the early repayment charge (ERC) they will be charged if they re-mortgage the property. 
They are particularly unhappy that the ERC is a static percentage throughout, rather than 
reducing on a yearly basis.
What happened
In 2017 Mr and Mrs D applied for a mortgage with Fleet through an independent mortgage 
broker. Attached to the mortgage was an interest rate product which runs until the end of 
April 2022. 
Before applying for the mortgage Mr and Mrs D were given an illustration, which set out the 
key details of the mortgage they were being recommended. It detailed at the top of the fourth 
page that they would be charged an ERC of 5% if they repaid the mortgage before the end 
of April 2022.
The mortgage offer sent to Mr and Mrs D detailed that there was an ERC associated with the 
interest rate product. It said if they paid the mortgage back before the end of April 2022, they 
would need to pay an ERC of 5% of the amount repaid.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs D decided they wanted to re-mortgage the property to benefit from a 
lower interest rate. They complained to Fleet about the ERC as they considered it was 
prohibitive. They said they understood the reason for ERCs, but didnt understand why 
Fleets didnt reduce over the term. They put forward that it was obvious that the ERC should 
reflect a lenders costs and reduce by 1% per year.
Fleet explained to Mr and Mrs D that it had agreed the product offered with its funding 
partners and it was agreed the ERC would be fixed for the duration of the mortgage. It 
pointed out that this information had been contained in the documentation given to 
Mr and Mrs D before they took out the mortgage and they agreed to pay it. As such, it didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept Fleets response and referred the complaint to this service. They 
said they thought a flat fee was unfair and couldnt be a reflection of the cost to the lender of 
early repayment.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. They said they didnt think that it was fair that a customer be 
effectively locked into a mortgage for 20% of its duration. While they acknowledged a 
lender would incur costs in order to provide a mortgage, they couldnt see how it could 
possibly be fair that a customer should be expected to pay a 5% ERC regardless of how far 
through the term of the interest rate product they were when they repaid the mortgage. They 
considered a stepped ERC was the only fair thing for lenders to do, given the 
unprecedented market conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to be able to lend to consumers, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with 
loans made to the lenders customers, there are costs associated with borrowing that 
money. When the lender decides the format of the loans its going to use the tranche of 
money for, it has to include an assessment of the potential risks associated with doing so. 
Included in those risks is that some customers may repay their borrowing early. When that 
happens some of the money expected to be received by the lender will not be, but the lender 
remains liable for its own cost, including those associated with borrowing the money. In 
addition, if the lender repays its borrowing early, there may be costs associated with that too. 
In light of this, lenders will charge an ERC upon early repayment. Whilst Mr and Mrs Ds 
mortgage isnt a regulated one, the regulator does allow an ERC to be charged on regulated 
mortgages and loans to cover the costs to a lender of consumers repaying borrowing early. 
This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but is more commonly calculated for a 
tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a similar type) and based on a proportion being 
repaid early. This calculation will be based on the lenders experience of the likelihood of 
early repayment and assessment of future conditions. Given the regulator allows a lender to 
calculate ERCs in this way for regulated mortgages, I see no reason to look at an 
unregulated mortgage any differently. 
As for how a lender formats an ERC, different lenders format their ERCs in different ways for 
different tranches of mortgages. There will be changes over time as an individual lenders 
knowledge and experience evolves and as the wider mortgage market changes. The fact 
that some lenders use a stepped, reducing ERCs for some of their mortgages doesnt mean 
fixed format ERCs are unfair or unreasonable. 
Provided the charge is a reasonable pre-estimate of the loss suffered by Fleet if the 
mortgage is paid early, it can make the charge. I know Mr and Mrs D dont believe the 
charge reflects the loss Fleet will suffer. However, I have seen the evidence of the 
calculations, although they cant be made publicly available as theyre commercial sensitive 
and confidential, I am satisfied the amount Fleet would charge in this case is a reasonable 
pre-estimate of loss. I dont consider it would be unreasonable for Fleet to charge the ERC if 
Mr and Mrs D decide to re-mortgage. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 April 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman