DRN-4515667
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a used car supplied by BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited (trading as Alphera Financial Services). 
What happened
On 29 September 2021, Mr P took out a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with Alphera for the
supply of a three year old car with just over 8,800 miles on the clock. The car cost about
£72,000 and Mr P paid a £1,000 deposit. Alphera provided credit for the balance which was
repayable over five years at just over £1,000 a month, with an optional final payment of
about £22,000 if Mr P wanted to keep the car.
Mr P collected the car on 9 October 2021 and noticed a number of issues straightaway. He
contacted the supplying dealer (that Ill call L) and reported that mouldings and panels were
coming away, bits of the door were scraped, the boot was beeping and not closing and the
suspension was creaking and clattering. L agreed to carry out repairs and Mr P took the car
back a week or so later. As L is located some distance away, he returned home by train.
When he went to collect the car shortly after he found the paintwork still wasnt right  it was
bubbled and matt, not gloss and panels were peeling - and the suspension fault wasnt
resolved. L agreed to rectify things and provided Mr P with a courtesy vehicle until his car
was returned, around the start of November 2021.
About a month later a service light came on and Mr P took the car to a local dealer for the
brand (that Ill call S). S said an oil service was required and Mr P paid about £180 for that.
He was disappointed this was necessary so soon, as L told him the car was serviced just
before supply, and the oil service didnt resolve things  the light kept coming on. In early
2022 S checked the car again and told Mr P four new tyres were needed as tread was worn
and the car had the wrong sized alloys fitted which might have caused the suspension
issues. Mr P paid about £1,300 for replacement tyres and hes unhappy these were needed
so soon, as L told him the car was fitted with new tyres at the point of supply. He queries
how the car passed an MOT with minimal tyre tread and other issues with safety related
parts present - such as anti-roll bar bushings/sway bar bushings.
In May 2022 the car went into limp mode and S told Mr P part of the turbo needed replacing
and it would take about three months before this was available. S was unable to provide a
courtesy car but Mr Ps car was considered safe to drive so he continued to use it. Mr P says
fuel consumption was severely affected however. The car was returning about half the miles
per gallon (MPG) which he reasonably expected and he was filling up at a cost of £135
every three days or so. And it would go into limp mode regularly - meaning he had to pull
over, switch the engine off and wait for a time before he could resume his journey.
In September 2022 the new part arrived and S had the car for about 20 days because the
first part was faulty and had to be replaced. S supplied a courtesy car during this time but (as
with previous replacement vehicles) this wasnt the same model as Mr Ps car and he feels it
is unfair that he was paying over £1,000 a month to drive smaller, cheaper vehicles.
In November more faults appeared and the car went back to S for 77 days. S supplied a
courtesy vehicle during this time. When Mr P went to collect his car, at the end of January
2023, fault lights illuminated almost immediately. S ran some diagnostic tests which revealed
multiple faults and Mr P refused to accept the car back. With the help of a firm of solicitors
(that Ill call X) he complained to Alphera.
In February 2023 Alphera agreed that the car wasnt sufficiently durable and Mr P should be
allowed to reject it  acknowledging he experienced problems within the first 30 days,
various parts had to be replaced and the car still had faults. Alphera agreed to end the HPA
and refund Mr Ps deposit plus monthly payments made from the date of the offer to resolve
things. Alphera considered Mr P had fair use of the car however  given hed exceeded the
annual mileage limit set out in the HPA pro rata - and didnt offer any further refunds or
compensation.
Mr P didnt think that was fair. He said his circumstances changed after he took out the
finance meaning he had to drive further than anticipated. He states that hed have either paid
the excess miles at the end of the HCP - or the lender would probably have waived any
excess mileage charges if he took out finance for another vehicle (which is whats happened
in the past). In any event, he considers the HPA doesnt allow for such charges to be applied
pro rata, a significant proportion of the excess miles were accrued taking the car back and
forth for investigations and repairs and Alphera hasnt taken account of his additional travel
costs such as train fares. Mr P wants Alphera to refund monthly payments for his lost and/or 
impaired use and reimburse his out of pocket expenses - including costs associated with
excessive fuel consumption, GAP insurance, an oil service, replacement tyres, two resprays
and removing the vehicle tracker.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he considered Alphera's offer was fair
overall. He said (in summary):-
Mr P was without the use of his car at times but he likely had fair use of the 
vehicle as he was able to travel more than the contractual annual allowance of 
6,000 and Alphera waived excess mileage charges of around £1,000; 
GAP insurance wasnt paid for under the HPA so he couldnt hold Alphera liable 
for this cost and Mr P could contact his GAP cover provider for a refund; 
it looked as if L paid for resprays so Mr P wasnt out of pocket for that cost; 
Mr P sent an extract from paperwork S provided which refers to the wrong size 
alloys and low tread but this wasnt sufficiently detailed and didnt say which car 
the information related to; 
there are no tyre advisories on the MOT carried out around the point of supply 
and he didnt think there was enough evidence to reasonably conclude that the 
tyres were likely to have been faulty at that stage; 
Mr P reported that oil dilution was at 9% and an oil service was needed (just 
months after supply) to prevent damage but it was unclear what caused this and 
he wasnt persuaded he could fairly hold Alphera responsible; and 
he couldnt reasonably find Mr P spent more on fuel due to a fault present when 
the car was supplied, on the evidence provided.
Mr P asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. He feels the investigator was biased
and he should be entitled to a further refund, He says (in summary) he was supplied with a
car with substandard tyres and bodywork and numerous faults and its unfair that use of a
courtesy car provided by a third party absolves Alphera from responsibility for the loss of use
of his vehicle. In addition, he was paying about £1,000 a month for a luxury vehicle and the
replacements were not to the same standard. In terms of the MPG, he thinks telemetry
readings supplied directly from the vehicle verified by S, an authorised dealer, support his
losses. And he considers the tyres should not have deteriorated so soon  which must have
been due to having incorrect wheels fitted causing excessive degradation.Having considered the available evidence, I was minded to uphold this complaint and I 
thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional findings and make further 
submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. I issued a provisional 
decision on 21 November  2023. Ive set out below (in italics) what I decided provisionally - 
and why. This forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Alphera supplied this car to Mr P under a HPA and Im looking at Alpheras obligations
arising out of that finance agreement in this decision. Im required to take relevant law into
account and Im satisfied that includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) here. Under 
the CRA, Alphera was required to ensure that this car was of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. Alphera has accepted the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when Mr P got it and, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, I agree. So, the issue for me to decide is whether I 
consider Alphera has offered fair redress in the circumstances.
Alphera has accepted that Mr P should be entitled to reject the car and end the HPA - which
seems reasonable. I understand the car was collected at no additional cost to Mr P earlier
this year and the deposit he paid under the HPA was refunded. I think that goes some way
to putting things right but Im minded to find there are other issues that need to be addressed
in order to fairly compensate Mr P.
Lost/impaired use
I understand Alphera offered to refund any monthly payments made (in full) from the date
resolution was offered  in February 2023 - and it later refunded one monthly payment. I
realise Mr P feels he should have more monthly payments refunded for loss of use because
of the time the car was off the road for repairs and investigations. He reported that he was
without the use of his car for 130 days  as it was off the road for 142 days and a courtesy
car was only provided by Alphera an/or L for 12 of those.
Under the CRA, where a consumer is entitled to reject a car on quality grounds (as Alphera
has accepted is the case here) they may be entitled to a refund of whats been paid. This
amount can be reduced however to reflect the use the consumer had of the vehicle. And, in
the usual course of events, wed consider monthly finance payments made are a fair charge
for that - if the consumer had full use of the vehicle.
Ive thought about what happened here and whether the faults present at the outset had a
material and significant impact on Mr Ps usage. There seems to be no dispute that the car
went back for repairs (to both L and S) a number of times and Mr P says Alphera/L only
provided a replacement vehicle on one occasion - for 12 days in October 2021. He considers
he should have all of the monthly payments made refunded for the remainder of the time 
about 140 days  the car was off the road.
Im afraid I dont think its as simple as that however. I say this because Mr P confirmed that
S supplied him with alternative transport while his car was in for repairs. I appreciate the
courtesy vehicles S provided werent identical to Mr Ps car and they werent provided by
either Alphera or L. But, a consumer in Mr Ps situation is obliged to mitigate their losses.
And I think it was reasonable for Mr P to keep mobile in the alternative transport he was
offered.Ive given some thought to what Mr P says about the amount he paid under the finance
agreement for his car - as compared to the cost of the alternatives S provided. Mr P hasnt
supplied us with any documentary evidence about the alternative transport so Im unable to
make any firm findings about the cost of that. In any event, working out whats fair in these
circumstances isnt a scientific exercise. I accept it was probably frustrating and inconvenient
for Mr P to be without his own vehicle while it was off the road for repairs for several months.
And Ive considered this in the compensation amount Im minded to award below. Im
satisfied however that Mr P was kept mobile throughout and Im not persuaded I can
reasonably require Alphera to refund any further monthly payments in this respect.
It looks as if S was unable to provide a courtesy vehicle however when the service light
illuminated again and the car went in for repairs in July 2022 - due to restricted performance
and a knocking noise from the steering column. S identified he steering knock was a UJ joint
and there was a fault with the turbo B shutoff valve. The relevant part was ordered but
delivery was delayed by three months and Mr P continued to drive his car until September.
He says it achieved a significantly reduced MPG during this period and went into limp mode
at times. Ive seen evidence from S that states Mr P drove the car with a warning light on
doing roughly 12 mpg and I note S also suggests that the manufacturer agreed to contribute
towards excess fuel costs. I havent got any more evidence around that however.
On the evidence before me at present, I cant work out what (if any) financial losses Mr P
may have incurred in terms of excess fuel use. Im satisfied, on balance, that driving the car
at this time would probably have been somewhat unnerving and frustrating  Mr P describes
it going into limp mode regularly meaning he had to pull over and re-start the engine before
he could carry on with his journey. On balance, I think its likely Mr Ps use of the vehicle was
impaired between July and September 2022 and Im minded to find Alphera should refund
10% of three monthly payments to reflect that.
Excess mileage charges
I can see why the investigator thought the miles accrued pro rata in excess of the annual
mileage limit meant Alphera had, in effect, waived excess mileage charges of around £1,000
- and he considered it was reasonable to take this into account when looking at the fairness
of the offer overall. I dont think thats quite right however and Ill explain why below.
Im satisfied that Alphera made it clear in correspondence that it wouldnt seek to charge for
excess miles in this situation. I think thats a reasonable approach in these particular
circumstances - where its not through any act or omission on Mr Ps part that the car is
going back earlier than either party anticipated at the start of the HPA. Alphera accepts the
car should be rejected because it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the outset and excess
mileage charges were never applied. It follows, I cant reasonably take the associated cost
into account as having been waived by Alphera as a goodwill or compensatory gesture.
Tyres and oil service
I appreciate Mr P feels strongly that he shouldnt have had to pay for an oil service and new
tyres so soon after acquiring this car. For me to reasonably hold Alphera liable for these
costs however Id have to be satisfied theyre likely to result from faults that were probably
present at the point of sale. I note S acknowledges the oil service was premature but it goes
on to say this can happen when the vehicle is doing short runs. And Ive dont have enough
evidence to fairly find this issue arose due to point of supply faults.
As regards the tyres and alloys, S says the car was booked in for a service light on again in
February with clicking noises from the steering wheel, and a loose undertray. S carried out a
visual health check that identified multiple concerns including excessive movement in both
front and rear arc bar bushes, heavy corrosion to front brake discs, transmission under tray
damaged, rear wiper smearing and all tyres requiring replacement, LHR tyre had a largebulge and all other tyres under legal limit, also identified that the car was fitted with the
incorrect tyre sizes as the spare was a different size and model alloy to the 4 alloys fitted to
the car.
I understand S thought this might be the cause of the suspension issues but I cant see that
a firm conclusion was reached about that. It looks as if the service light was reset and
bushes and the undertray were repaired. I understand these repairs (as well as the
subsequent turbo repairs) were covered by a used approved warranty the car came with,
so Mr P wasnt out of pocket. I havent seen the terms of that warranty but I dont think tyres
and oil services are likely to be included in the usual course of events. I might have expected
these issues to fall within the relevant cover however if S considered they were linked to the
other faults  such as the turbo problem. Ive seen nothing to show thats the case  theres
no suggestion, for example, that S tried to recover the associated costs under the warranty.
And Im not presently persuaded that I can reasonably hold Alphera responsible for the costs
of new tyres or the oil service.
Additional costs
Mr P told us he had to pay twice to have the car resprayed in places because of peeling
paintwork. Im satisfied this was one of the issues L accepted early on and I think its likely
there were problems with the paintwork at the point of supply. If Mr P is able to supply
paperwork which shows that the paintwork repairs undertaken by L had to be pepaired/re-
finished, Id be minded to find it fair that Alphera should reimburse the reasonable cost of
putting this right.
Ive also thought about the GAP insurance that Mr P paid for. I understand that Mr P
contacted the cover provider (as suggested by our investigator) and hes now received a
refund pro rata. I think thats fair in the circumstances. Its what Id have been minded to hold
Alphera liable for (if Mr Ps policy had been non-refundable) as he didnt get the full benefit of
this cover because the car supplied by Alphera was faulty at the outset. And I cant
reasonably require Alphera to provide a further refund in this regard.
Mr P says he had a personalised number plate and a tracker fitted and he had to pay to
remove these when he handed the car back. I think Alphera should refund the reasonable
cost of this as Mr P wouldnt have had to incur these costs (at this stage) if the car was of
satisfactory quality when it was supplied  and hed have to pay for these to be transferred to
any new vehicle. Likewise, if Mr P incurred an administration fee for cancelling his car
insurance after he handed the car back, Im minded to find Alphera should refund that fee as
well, for broadly the same reasons.
It looks as if Mr P incurred some travel costs getting the car back to L when faults appeared
early on. He says he had to take the train home from dropping the car off and then back to L
to collect it in October 2021. Im satisfied he wouldnt have had to incur those costs either if
Alphera hadnt supplied a faulty vehicle at the outset. And Im minded to find it fair Mr P
should have the reasonable cost of this travel refunded.
All of the refunds referred to above are subject to Mr P providing documentary proof that the
relevant expense was incurred. I consider Alphera should also pay interest on any refunds
made (including the deposit) at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to the date of
settlement.
Distress and inconvenience
Weighing everything up, I think Mr P also probably, and not unreasonably, expected have a
period of relatively fault free driving when he acquired this car. Instead he experienced
numerous issues and had to arrange to take it back to L and S for repairs several times. I
think this probably involved a good deal of time contacting L, S and Alphera - on the phoneand in writing - to try and resolve things. Im satisfied being supplied with this faulty car
probably caused Mr P to experience a significant amount of frustration, distress and
inconvenience and Im minded to find Alphera should pay £300 compensation for that.
I understand Mr P maintained his monthly payments throughout so I dont think I need to
consider whether any adverse information has been recorded on his credit file - if Im wrong
about that the parties should let me know in response to this provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any additional
comments or new evidence by the 5 December 2023 and Id look at all the evidence 
available after that and make my final decision.
Mr P has supplied documentary evidence in respect of two resprays £325 (13 May 2022) 
and £380 (2 July 2022), £80 for removing his personal number plate and £270 for removing 
the tracker. The investigator sent copies to Alphera and asked for any comments by 12 
December 2023. Alphera hasnt raised any objections to my provisional findings or made 
any further submissions.
Mr P accepted some of my provisional conclusions but (in summary) hes disappointed that 
only 10% of three monthly payments will be refunded - when he explained that the car would 
go into limp mode and it had other issues while he waited for the turbo parts to arrive. He 
asked me to look again at the fact Alphera didnt provide a replacement car and the 
replacement vehicles that were supplied by S werent the same as his car. Hed also like 
compensation for additional fuel costs. He says fuel consumption was confirmed to have 
around 12-13mpg (by a master technician for the brand), which is less than half what it 
should have been, meaning he paid double for fuel when he was filling up twice as often (at 
least) due to turbo issues. 
I have given some thought to everything Mr P has said and sent to us but Im not persuaded 
to change my mind. I appreciate replacement vehicles werent provided by Alphera but Im 
satisfied consumers are obliged to mitigate their losses in this situation and I think it was 
reasonable for Mr P to use the alternative transport that S made available (albeit as a 
goodwill gesture). I recognise those replacement cars may not have been the same model or 
specification as Mr Ps vehicle but he was kept mobile and Ive taken account of any related 
upset and inconvenience in the £300 compensation payment. 
Mr P hasnt supplied any new evidence of additional fuel costs and Im unable to reasonably 
require Alphera to provide a further refund in this regard. For the reasons Ive set out above, 
I remain of the view that the refund for lost/impaired use is fair overall and I cant fairly find 
Alphera should pay more for that. I see no fair and reasonable grounds to depart from my 
provisional conclusions in all the circumstances and I find Alphera should takes the steps set 
out below to put things right.  
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint and I require BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
(trading as Alphera Financial Services) to:-
1. refund 10% of three monthly payments for impaired use;
2. refund £1,055 for the cost of two resprays and removing the personal number 
plate and the tracker;3. refund the reasonable cost of train travel and any insurance cancellation fee (as 
referred to above) if Mr P supplies documentary evidence that these costs were 
incurred;
3. pay interest on all refunds (including the deposit - unless interest on this refund 
has been paid already) at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to the date of
settlement;
4. Pay Mr P an additional £300 compensation for his associated distress and
inconvenience.
If Alphera does not pay the compensation for inconvenience and distress within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it that Mr P accepts my final decision then it must also pay 8% 
simple yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. 
If Alphera considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also 
give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman