DRN-3136539
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited havent refunded him the multi car 
policy discount he should have received when he added his car to his daughters motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ys daughter had a motor insurance policy with Admiral that ran from 11 October 2020 
until 11 October 2021. To take advantage of Admirals multi car policy Mr Y added his own 
car to the policy on 4 January 2021. Mr Y said the addition to the motor insurance policy 
added an additional premium of £270.33 after the multi car discount of £33.82 was applied. 
He said his daughter paid the total premium of £304.15. He said this meant shed overpaid 
for the policy and he should be refunded the multi car discount  of £33.82. He complained to 
Admiral.
Admiral said the multi car policy came into effect on 4 January 2021 when Mr Y added his 
car to his daughters motor insurance policy. They said Mr Y was told that his total premium 
would cost £304.15, but there would be a multi car premium discount of £33.82. Admiral said 
the refund was paid back to the policyholders account on 5 January 2021.  
Mr Y wasnt happy with Admirals response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she said Admiral had refunded the multi car 
discount so there wasnt any financial loss caused.
Mr Y didnt agree, he confirmed the refund had been paid by Admiral, but his daughter had 
paid the full premium of £304.15 with a different card to that Admiral held on file, so the 
discount premium was still due. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not my role to say how much an insurer should charge, what factors they should assess 
when offering policies, or how to go about those assessments. In reaching my decision I 
need to determine whether there has been any financial loss caused to Mr Y and whether 
Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with him.
Admiral provides a multi car insurance offer that gives the same cover as their standard car 
insurance policy. But allows policyholders to insure multiple cars on one policy  so they 
have just one renewal date after 12 months. And for policyholders who take up the multi car 
offer a discount is added for every car.
Mr Ys daughters motor insurance policy with Admiral ran from 11 October 2020, with a 
renewal on 11 October 2021. I can see from Mr Ys Motor Policy Schedule, that his car was 
added to the existing policy on 4 January 2021 and that the insurance cover would run to 11 
October 2021 when it was due for renewal. The total insurance premium for the insurance 
cover shows as £304.15. 
Its not in dispute that by adding an additional car a refund to the insurance premium was 
due and this was calculated at £33.82. This meant that after the discount Mr Ys insurance 
premium was £270.33. The dispute is whether the refund has been made.
Admirals policy terms say:
If you are due a refund, we will credit the bank account or card used to pay for most of the 
policy premium.
Mr Y said his daughter had lost and cancelled the card that Admiral held on record for her, 
and that shed paid the full insurance premium - £304.15 with a different card. He said as his 
premium should only be £270.33, he was still owed the discount refund of £33.82. 
But while Mr Ys daughter has paid the £304.15 for his insurance premium, Admiral said 
theyd refunded the multi car discount back to her. And Mr Y has confirmed that Admiral 
have credited his daughters account with the multi car discount of £33.83. So, Im satisfied 
that the insurance premium thats actually been paid is the discounted amount of £270.33. 
So, I agree with our investigator that Mr Y hasnt suffered a financial loss. 
Mr Y also said that Admiral has given him mis-leading information and that this has caused 
him stress. But I can see Admiral provided Mr Y with a Motor Policy Schedule, and a guide 
to his car insurance which details the cover provided. The Motor Policy Schedule shows the 
total insurance premium that this cover would incur, £304.15. They have also explained the 
multi car discount that has been applied and have refunded this in line with their policy terms 
as outlined above. So, I think Admiral have acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with 
Mr Y.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman