DRN-2328364
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs S are unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd has declined their claim for storm damage 
to their roof.
 
What happened
In July 2020, Mr A and Mrs S suffered damage to their roof during heavy rain and gale force 
winds, which caused rain to come in and damage the interior of their property. Mr A was 
advised that he could have temporary repairs carried out to stop further water coming in. 
QIC sent out a surveyor who noted that the roof had been temporarily repaired. They 
obtained details from the roofer employed by Mr A that the damage consisted of two 
dislodged tiles that had pierced the roof valley.
QIC reviewed the matter and said that the windspeed recorded at the time the damage was 
said to have occurred wasnt sufficient to amount a storm under the terms of the cover in the 
policy. It also said the windspeed wasnt sufficient to be able to dislodge tiles from a well 
maintained roof. It also said that Mr A had had a permanent rather than a temporary repair 
carried out and this prejudiced its position as it was unable to inspect the damage. It agreed 
to cover the internal damage, and that has been settled.
Om referral to this service our investigator thought that QIC had acted unreasonably and 
should pay the claim. He said that while the windspeed didnt reach the required sped set 
out in the policy, he nevertheless thought there were storm conditions. And that those 
conditions were likely to have caused the damage. He further said that QIC should pay £150 
for distress and inconvenience caused.
QIC didnt agree and maintained that it was entitled to decline the claim for storm damage if 
the windspeed recorded was lower than required under the policy terms.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When assessing whether there is storm damage under a home insurance policy, we ask 
three questions. It is only if the answer to each of those questions is "Yes that it is most 
likely that we would tell an insurer to deal with a claim as storm damage. The questions are:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
2.   Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.   Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
were there storm conditions?
Storm is defined in the policy as:
A period of violent weather defined as:
a) A gale of force 10 or above (as defined under the internationally recognised Beaufort
Scale) reaching wind speeds of at least 55 mph or
b) Torrential rain that falls at a rate of at least 25mm per hour
Here around the time of the claim a peak windspeed was recorded as 53mph. I understand 
that QIC relies on that as not complying with the policy term and so says it wasnt a storm as 
defined above. I have to consider whether a policy term is reasonable and whether its 
reasonable to apply it in specific circumstances. The weather records showed severe gale 
force gusts. The windspeed would be recorded at a local weather station, here eight miles 
away. I think there is sufficient leeway in this case to say that it was unfair to apply the direct 
letter of the policy term. So I think there were storm conditions.
is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Here the damage consisted of two dislodged tiles that had pierced the roof valley. QIC has 
said to us that it didnt think the windspeed was strong enough to cause the damage claimed 
for. It hasnt said so in its experts report. I think that severe gale force gusts would cause the 
this sort of damage.
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
QIC sent out an expert to review the damage, both inside and out. The expert didnt offer an 
opinion as to whether the damage was caused by the storm conditions, but did mention the 
work carried out by Mr As contractors, and that this was a temporary repair. Afterwards QIC 
told Mr A that the damage had been repaired permanently rather than temporarily, so it 
wasnt able to inspect it. I think QIC would have been well able to inspect the roof, ascertain 
what repairs were done and conclude whether there was storm damage. But the expert 
appears to have dismissed it on the basis that the weather conditions didnt amount to storm 
in the policy. However they should have gone on to decide whether it was accidental 
damage (which Mr A and Mrs S do have cover for), which I assume the internal damage was 
accepted as.
I think on balance that dislodging of the tiles and piercing of the roof valley were caused by 
the storm, and the claim should be paid. The property was said to be in a fair state of repair, 
and certainly looks it from the photos. Even if I were wrong in this respect, it should have 
been covered as accidental damage. 
On the question of whether a temporary or permanent repair was carried out, Mr A and
Mrs Ss roofers invoice says it was a temporary repair, and QICs expert also referred to it 
as being temporary  he didnt say he wasnt able to inspect the repairs. As Mr A was told he 
could get a temporary repair carried out, I dont think his actions prejudiced QICs ability to 
decide whether it would cover the damage. 
Putting things right
QIC should pay the cost of permanently repairing the damage as charged by Mr A and 
Mrs Ss roofer. I think as Mr A and Mrs S were caused extra inconvenience by QICs refusal 
to consider their claim, it should also pay £150 compensation.My final decision
I require QIC Europe Ltd to act in accordance with what Ive said in Putting things right 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman