DRN-1740903
The complaint
Mrs R complains that airline tickets she bought using her TSB Bank plc credit card were 
misrepresented to her as return flights when they were only one-way. 
What happened
Mrs R explains that her husband booked a flight from Birmingham to Montego Bay in June 
2014. He paid £790 for a return flight which was departing on 22 August 2014. Mrs R says 
that she and her 3 children wanted to join her husband but the flights were too expensive 
and so she had been checking the cost of flights regularly in the run up to her husbands 
departure. Mrs R says that return flights had been showing online for £398 per person but 
there had not been four released that they had been able to book. Mrs R says that on the 
day of her husbands flight there was one return ticket online showing at a price of £398. 
Mrs R and her children travelled to the airport with her husband and made enquiries about 
whether there were tickets available for the flight. Mrs R says that she was told that seats 
were available with the same return date as her husband for around £400 per person. Mrs R 
booked 4 flights on 22 August 2014 and paid a total of £1616. Mrs R used her TSB credit 
card to pay £800 of the balance.
When Mrs R turned up at the airport for the return flight, she was told that she and her 
children were not booked on the flight and they had only bought one-way tickets. There were 
not enough seats for Mrs R and all her children to return on that flight and Mrs R had to 
spend a number of nights at the airport before paying for an alternative flight with a different 
airline for her and the children. Mrs R made a complaint to the travel company that sold her 
the tickets, but this was not upheld. An ABTA complaint was dismissed as it did not fall 
within the rules of the scheme. Mrs R complained to TSB and asked them to refund her 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act on the basis that the flights were 
misrepresented.
TSB investigated and said that without evidence that Mrs R had bought return tickets it could 
not assist further. Mrs R wasnt happy with that response and so brought her complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
there wasnt enough evidence that Mrs R was told the tickets were return tickets and so TSB 
hadnt done anything wrong by dismissing the claim for a refund. 
Mrs R didnt agree and replied to say in summary that she was told the tickets were return 
and she had specific conversations about the return dates. Mrs R said she would try to get 
some evidence about the costs of the return flights in 2014 but it seems that the travel 
company doesnt have this information any longer because of the time that has passed. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to express my sympathy for Mrs R and her family, and I am sure that the whole 
scenario was upsetting for them when they were stranded at the airport for a number of 
days. I am limited in my role and I can only look at whether TSB has treated Mrs R fairly in 
the steps it has taken to assist. I cant force the merchant to give the money back. 
In certain circumstances Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act gives a consumer an equal 
right to claim a refund against the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if 
there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. In Mrs Rs case 
she says that the flights were misrepresented to her as return flights and she would not have 
bought them if she had known they were only one-way.
Mrs R explains that she was only given a receipt after paying for the flights and she was told 
that this would be enough for her to get on the plane. No itinerary or tickets were provided 
and so Mrs R couldnt check the details of what she had bought. There is no surrounding 
paperwork and I cant be sure what was said to Mrs R at the airport. 
Where the information is missing or inconclusive as some of it is here, I must consider what 
is more likely than not to have happened, taking account of all the circumstances.
I dont have any confirmation that return flights were available at £398. Mrs Rs husband 
booked his return flight in June and paid £790 return. It seems to me unlikely that four return 
flights were available on the day of departure for £398. I think this because the return seats 
were unlikely to have been available given that the return flight could not accommodate Mrs 
R and her children. In addition, Mrs R had been looking for return flights for a number of 
weeks and had been unable to secure 4.
I think it is more likely than not that Mrs R purchased one-way tickets as standby tickets at 
the airport. This would explain why she wasnt given her tickets for a return flight or any 
confirmation that a return flight had been booked.  
I cant be sure what was said to Mrs R at the airport and I imagine that it was a frantic time 
given the rush to board the plane. I dont doubt that Mrs R genuinely thought that she had 
booked return flights and there were conversations around returning but I am not persuaded 
that she was explicitly told she had bought return flights given the surrounding 
circumstances.
In the absence of any paperwork or confirmation that the return flights were even available at 
that price I cant say that TSB was wrong to refuse Mrs Rs claim for compensation. TSB did 
investigate and did try to obtain a refund from the holiday company so I cant say it didnt 
properly assist with Mrs Rs complaint.
I am sorry for the trouble that Mrs R has been through, but I cant ask TSB to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Emma BoothroydOmbudsman