DRN-3502636
The complaint
Mr B, who is represented by a third party, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard (Barclaycard), irresponsibly granted him a credit card he couldnt afford to 
repay. 
What happened
In December 2014 Mr B entered into an agreement with Barclaycard to have access to credit 
by way of a credit card account. 
Mr B says that Barclaycard didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened his 
credit card account. He says he was already struggling financially at the time.
Barclaycard didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment to check Mr Bs financial circumstances before granting him the credit card 
account and each of the credit limit increases. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be partially upheld. Whilst she thought 
Barclaycard didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the opening of the account and 
the first credit limit increase, she went on to say that it shouldnt have given him the second, 
third and fourth increases.
As Barclaycard didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the account, Barclaycard looked into Mr Bs financial situation. Based on the 
credit check it carried out, it took Mr Bs income to be £1,096 per month. It also found that 
Mr B was generally managing his other credit accounts well. Barclaycard also assessed 
Mr Bs regular outgoings using average costs data. It then set an opening credit limit based 
on these factors. I therefore think that the checks carried out by Barclaycard showed it was 
likely that the credit card account was affordable for Mr B, having calculated that Mr B would 
have sufficient disposable income to manage his Barclaycard card alongside his existing 
financial commitments. That calculation estimated his average monthly expenditure to be 
around £858, leaving him with £214 of disposable income. 
But whilst it appears that Barclaycard carried out proportionate steps at the time, I still need 
to consider whether it made a fair lending decision at the outset and for each of the credit 
limit increases.
Looking at the first credit limit increase, I agree with our adjudicator that it would have been 
proportionate for Barclaycard to have taken steps to find out more about any changes to 
Mr Bs income and expenditure. But keeping in mind that the first increase took place around 
five months after the account opening Barclaycard, its reasonable to assume that Mr Bs 
financial position wouldnt have materially changed. So I agree that Barclaycard wasnt 
acting unfairly in approving this first increase. 
However, looking at the second, third and fourth increases, I agree that Barclaycard failed to 
take into account that the data they relied on likely wouldnt have left Mr B with enough 
disposable income. On each occasion, Mr B  was already using around 80% of his available 
credit balance. Looking at the expenditure figures Barclaycard relied on for each of these 
increases  being £1,028, £1,153 and £1,190  its clear that based on an income of £1,096 
per month, Mr B would be left with very little disposable income with which to run and 
manage his account for the first increase. And he would have no disposable income at all for 
the third and fourth increases, being more than his declared income. So I agree with our 
adjudicator that the checks that Barclays had in place show that these credit limit increases 
wouldnt have been affordable. 
It follows that I dont think Barclaycard should have increased Mr Bs credit limit beyond the 
first increase of £1,200. 
Putting things right  what Barclaycard needs to do
Rework Mr Bs account to ensure that from 9 February 2016 onwards interest 
is only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £1,200, (being the credit 
limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no further credit limit 
increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should 
also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made Barclaycard should contact Mr B to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for the account. Once Mr B has repaid the outstanding balance, it 
should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file from 9 
February 2016 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr B, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. 
Barclaycard should also remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file 
from 9 February 2016.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclaycard must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
trading as Barclaycard, should put things right in the way Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman