DRN-3812148
The complaint
Ms S complains about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) dealt with a claim under her home 
insurance policy for damage to her property caused by an escape of water.
 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
What happened
In March 2020 Ms S contacted QIC to tell them there was a leak coming from ground level 
affecting her property. The leak was subsequently found to be coming from a neighbours 
property, which the local water company fixed. At the point Ms S contacted QIC, it was just 
before the government introduced regulations and restrictions due to the Covid 19 
pandemic. QIC instructed a field surveyor to visit the property to inspect the damage, but 
because of the restrictions, this couldnt take place.
 
QIC tried to validate the claim by their in-house Surveying Team, but due to the nature of the 
claim, it was decided a visit to the property by a field surveyor was required. But the visit 
didnt take place until the beginning of December 2020. After which the field surveyors 
report was reviewed and a cash settlement offered later in the month (which Ms S accepted 
the same day). In making the cash settlement, QIC applied an excess of £750 (for a claim 
arising from an escape of water).
Subsequently, Ms S contacted QIC in May 2022 to tell them of a potentially new  but 
related  issue in respect of a wall at her property that was damp. In support of her new 
claim, Ms S provided a report from a surveyor (SRS) which said the damage was due to the 
original leak. However, QIC declined the claim, saying the damage was due to rising damp, 
which would fall under a policy exclusion for anything that happened gradually.
Ms S complained to QIC, unhappy at the time it had taken for the visit from the field surveyor 
to inspect the damage from the leak, the application of the £750 excess, and the decline of 
her claim. But QIC didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response, on the time taken for 
the field surveyor visit, QIC acknowledged the time it took (and the inconvenience caused to 
Ms S) but this was due to the regulations and restrictions put in place by the government 
(not QIC). On the issue of the application of the excess, QIC referred to the policy schedule 
relating to a claim under the Escape of water or oil section, which set out the excess as 
£750. On the decline of Ms Rs claim, having reviewed the report from SRS, QIC noted it 
referred to rising damp. They also said the policy contained an exclusion for any gradual or 
maintenance related loss or damage. Rising damp occurred gradually over time, so it fell 
under the exclusion. QIC concluded the claim had been correctly declined. 
Ms S then complained to this service, unhappy at QIC not upholding her complaint. She said 
shed had to chase QIC to arrange a field surveyor visit, and the Covid 19 restrictions ended 
in July  but it took until November to arrange a visit to her property, which she thought was 
too long. On the excess for escape of water, she said the damage was caused by a burst 
pipe on her neighbours property. So, it wasnt flooding or escape of water (nor within her 
control). On the 2022 claim, she said the wall had not dried out from the leaking 
[neighbours] pipe  so it was related to the original claim. Her surveyor stated the damage 
(the damp) was due to the burst pipe  it wasnt rising damp. 
She said she hadnt had her property repaired as the wall hadnt dried out. And shed spent 
£160 on a survey. She wanted QIC to cover the cost of the survey and to tank the wall, 
which was necessary after water damage to a property of its age. She also wanted the issue 
of the excess to be reviewed and the amount paid by QIC in their cash settlement (as she 
wasnt aware at the time of how much it would cost to repair the damage to her property 
(from the escape of water). Nor that she could have rejected the settlement.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He thought that while the initial Covid 19 
restrictions had been lifted in July 2020, the delay until the field surveyor visit in December 
2020 was likely to have been unavoidable because of the knock-on effects of the restrictions 
having been in place. So, it wouldnt have been within QICs control and therefore he 
couldnt fairly ask QIC to compensate Ms S for the delay. On the excess applied to the cash 
settlement, the investigator thought the policy terms were clear and that the leak from a 
neighbours pipe would properly fall under the escape of water section of the policy. So, QIC 
had fairly applied the excess. 
On the claim for damage in 2022, the investigator noted a reference in SRSs report to 
instrumental measurements indicated rising damp. But while the policy exclusion was 
clear, the investigator didnt think QIC had assessed the claim fairly. He noted an email from 
SRS that the damp was caused by the leak from the neighbours pipe, which was clear. It 
was unfair for QIC to base their decline of the claim on one excerpt from the report. So, QIC 
had not shown theyd applied the exclusion fairly. To put things right, he thought QIC should 
deal with Ms Ss claim.
QIC disagreed with the investigators conclusions on the issue of their decline of the 2022 
claim. and asked that an ombudsman review the complaint. They referred to an extract of 
the report saying that at the time of the survey it wasnt established exactly what the leak 
was or if there was any long-term damage under the property or if the escape of water had 
dislodged any soil under the property. Having reviewed the report and having it reviewed by 
their in-house Surveying Team they thought theyd assessed the claim fairly (and declined 
the claim).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Ms S.
There are three main elements in Ms Ss complaint. Taking them in chronological order, the 
first is the time taken for QIC to assess the original claim made in March 2020 for the 
damage caused by the leak from the neighbours property. More specifically, the time taken 
for QIC to arrange a visit from their field surveyor (the visit took place at the beginning of 
December 2020). Ms S says shed had to chase QIC to arrange the visit, and the Covid 19 
restrictions ended in July  but it took until November to arrange a visit to her property, which 
she thinks is too long. QIC acknowledge the time for the visit to take place (and the 
inconvenience to Ms S) but this was due to the regulations and restrictions put in place by 
the government. 
Having considered both views carefully, together with the supporting evidence and 
information, Im more persuaded by QICs view. The timing of the notification of the original 
claim was immediately before the government announced the first national lockdown, together with the associated regulations and restrictions. Given the lifting of restrictions in 
July (some four months later) I think its reasonable to conclude there would have been a 
backlog created (in addition to claims made during the period of lockdown). In those 
circumstances, I think its reasonable to conclude the backlog would have taken some time 
to clear. 
Ive also noted that once the field surveyor visit took place, followed by review of their report, 
QIC made a cash settlement offer later the same month (which Ms S accepted). Which I 
think supports the view QIC acted in a timely way to assess the claim after the visit.
The second issue is the application of the £750 excess to the cash settlement made in 
December 2020. Ms S says the leak was caused by a neighbours pipe. So, it wasnt 
flooding or escape of water (nor within her control). QIC refer to the policy terms relating to a 
claim under the Escape of water or oil section. The policy schedule set out the applicable 
excess was £750. So, theyve correctly applied this to the cash settlement.
QIC refer to the following extract from the policy schedule:
Escape of water or oil excess       £750 The amount of each buildings escape of water or 
oil claim you will have to pay
This is what the policy schedule sets out, so I think its clear. Ms S says the leak was caused 
by a neighbours pipe. So, it wasnt flooding or escape of water (nor within her control). I 
dont agree. There was clearly a leak  an escape of water from the neighbours pipe  that 
caused damage to Ms Ss property. The fact it came from the neighbours pipe doesnt 
change the fact it was an escape of water (a burst pipe).
So, Ive concluded QIC correctly applied the appropriate policy excess under the terms of 
the policy.
While Ms S was unhappy with the excess applied, she also mentioned the amount paid by 
QIC in their cash settlement (as she wasnt aware at the time of how much it would cost to 
repair the damage to her property. Nor that she could have rejected the settlement. 
However, Im not persuaded by her view. Under the terms of the policy, QIC are able to offer 
a cash settlement if they accept a claim (as one of the options they can choose). Its then up 
to the policyholder whether they choose to accept the settlement (as Ms S did) or to reject it. 
I think it reasonable that Ms S had the opportunity to consider the settlement and  if she 
wished  to compare it to any independent contractor estimates of the repair cost. If she felt 
the settlement wasnt sufficient, she could have challenged or rejected it. 
The third issue is the decline of the claim in May 2022 for damage from damp. Ms S says the 
wall had not dried out from the leaking neighbours pipe  so it was related to the original 
claim. Her surveyor (SRS) states the damp was due to the burst pipe  it wasnt rising damp. 
QIC say the surveyors report states the damage is due to rising damp and refer to another 
part of the report mentioning uncertainties about the cause of the damage.
On this issue, having considered all the evidence and information available, including that 
provided by Ms S (and SRS) and by QIC, Ive concluded QIC havent acted fairly in declining 
to consider Ms Ss claim further. Ill come on to consider what I think is a reasonable 
resolution in this case, but first Ill set out the reasons Ive come to my conclusion.
In declining the claim, and in their final response, QIC refer to the following exclusion in the 
General Exclusions section of the policy terms and conditions:
12. Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damageLoss or damage as a result of wear and tear, fall in value over time, gradual 
deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not), the effects of the light or the 
atmosphere, normal settlement, warping or shrinkage, rusting or corrosion, wet or dry 
rot (regardless of the cause), fungus, mould or infestation and costs that arise from 
using or maintaining your buildings and contents normally.
I think this wording would reasonably be interpreted to include rising damp. So, the question 
then becomes whether the evidence indicates that rising damp (as generally understood) 
was likely to have been the cause of the damage (as QIC contend). Or (as Ms S contends, 
based on the stated opinion of SRS) it was a result of the leak from the neighbours property.
In their final response, QIC refer to the following excerpt from SRSs report:
instrumental measurements indicated rising damp.
In their response to our investigators view, QIC refer to the following reference in their field 
surveyors report:
At the time of the survey it was not established exactly what the leak was. It was 
also not established if there is any long-term damage under the property or if the 
escape of water has dislodged any soil etc. under the property.
Looking at the full report from which this reference is taken, it refers to the ingress of water 
appearing to come from the neighbours property (possibly the garden). It also notes Ms S 
saying the leak was found in the neighbours garden and was fixed by the local water 
company. Ive noted the report makes no mention of rising damp.
For her part, Ms S refers to a separate email from SRS after their report. In the email (which 
she provided to QIC) SRS states:
The rising damp present has been caused by the flooding due to saturation of the 
wall bases which have been bridged and compromised therefore has caused failure 
to the original damp proof course.
Thus, the reason for the containment of the ground salts and the need to install a 
new chemical damp proof course, this is standard practice after any flood affecting 
an older property..
My report clearly states that the damage to the plaster is due to the flood and not 
rising damp.
PLEASE NOTE The rising damp is the direct cause due to the flood and not a natural 
failure of the original damp proof course.
Ive considered both views carefully, but Im more persuaded by the opinion of SRS, as the 
surveyor who inspected the property and produced the report. And reading the report as a 
whole, it clearly indicates the damp in the wall was due to the leak from the neighbours 
property (a burst mains water pipe). And not from a gradual impact of rising damp (the 
reference above to not a natural failure of the original damp proof course). 
Ive also considered the principle that where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to 
decline a claim, then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Given my 
conclusion that Im more persuaded by the stated opinion of SRS  which QIC have not 
sought to refute directly - I dont think QIC have done enough to show theyve acted fairly 
and reasonably in applying the exclusion to decline the claim.Having reached these conclusions, Ive thought about what I think would be a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the complaint and what QIC need to do to put things right. As Ive 
concluded QIC cant rely on the exclusion for damage occurring gradually to decline Ms Ss 
claim, I think they should assess the claim, including the cost of SRSs report (£160 plus 
VAT) in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including any excess, as 
appropriate).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Ms Ss complaint in part. I 
require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Assess the claim, including the cost of SRSs report (£160 plus VAT) in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including any excess, as appropriate).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman