DRN-3423152
The complaint
Mr C complains, with the help of a representative, that London & Colonial Services Limited 
(L&C) failed to undertake sufficient due diligence when accepting his Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) application and allowing his subsequent investment. 
What happened
Involved Parties
London & Colonial Services Limited 
L&C is a regulated pension provider and administrator. Its authorised to arrange deals in 
investments, deal in investments as principal, establish, operate or wind up a personal 
pension scheme and to make arrangements with a view to transactions in investments. 
The Alliance Partnership s.r.o. (Alliance Partnership)
Alliance Partnership was an EEA authorised financial advisory firm based in the Czech 
Republic. Alliance Partnership had passported into the UK under the Insurance Mediation 
Directive (IMD) and, at the relevant date, was permitted to carry out some regulated 
activities in the UK. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register shows that Alliance 
Partnership had passported permissions in the UK from 19 November 2008 and that a 
supervisory run off has been in place since 6 April 2021.
Royal London 360
Royal London 360 is registered in the Isle of Man. It provided a wrapper to invest in a
number of funds with a number of fund providers. Mr C invested in several holdings
within the Royal London 360 investment platform.
Pensionloans4you.com
Pensionloans4u.com is a Czech-based broker and it entered into a loan agreement with 
Mr C. This was for an interest-free loan of £5,700 and this was repayable in full at the end of 
the term  either when Mr C accessed the 25% tax-free cash lump sum from his pension or 
else when he transferred his pension funds to another broker.
The loan Mr C received from Pensionloans4u.com was used to help him with starting a new 
business. Pensionsloans4U.com also referred Mr C on to Alliance Partnership.
L&C and Alliance Partnerships relationship
As part of our investigation, L&C was asked a series of detailed questions about the due 
diligence it undertook into the introducer (which in this complaint was Alliance Partnership) 
and into the investment(s) that were made with monies in the SIPP. Some of the questions 
asked included: details about the levels of business L&C received from the introducer, 
whether there was an agreement in place between L&C and the introducer, what due 
diligence it did on the introducer, what its understanding of the introducers business model 
was, whether it undertook any ongoing checks on the introducer, why any agreement in 
effect between it and the introducer ended, what proportion of business it received from the 
introducer involved transfers from occupational pension schemes and copies of 
correspondence relating to any due diligence it conducted on the investments made by the 
consumer.
Having asked L&C for this information, we subsequently chased it for a reply, but weve not 
received a substantive response to our enquiries from L&C. 
So, L&C has provided us with very little information about its relationship with Alliance 
Partnership. However, on a previous case L&C provided us with the below screenshot from 
26 November 2010, to show us how the register looked when it checked before accepting 
business from Alliance Partnership:
I think its likely that L&Cs relationship with Alliance Partnership began around the date of 
the above screenshot. And I think its likely its relationship with Alliance Partnership ended 
towards the end of 2011 based on correspondence received by Mr C.
What happened 
Mr C has told us that the transaction came about after he contacted PensionLoans4u.com to 
enquire about releasing funds from his pension having come across an advert. 
PensionLoans4u.com introduced Mr C to Alliance Partnership. At the time he didnt have any 
intention of transferring his pensions. Alliance Partnership advised him that by moving his 
pensions and investing in offshore investments Mr C could release some funds from his 
pension and obtain a better return. 
Mr C says that he was a retail client and had a limited understanding of the investments 
made. He told us that he requested a low-medium risk portfolio and thought his capital was 
protected. He understood that the payment he received was a loan that would be paid off by 
the returns on his investment. 
The terms of the loan between Mr C and PensionLoans4u.com were signed on 22 February 
2011. The security listed is the pension fund lump sum drawdown. It also noted: 
The client has been offered an amount of £5,700 from his/her pension fund prior to 
the age of 55. The client fully understands that no interest shall be payable on this 
amount but the original amount advanced is repayable in full when the client enters 
into pension 25% tax free lump sum draw down. The client agrees to pay 
PensionLoans4u.com the full and original amount advanced within 30 days of 
pension lump sum drawdown. Should the client wish to move his pension fund under 
the servicing of another broker then the original amount advanced is immediately 
repayable to PensionLoans4u.com.
The completed SIPP application form confirmed that the adviser in respect of the SIPP was 
Alliance Partnership. The adviser remuneration payable was listed as 6% initial and 1% 
ongoing. Alliance Partnership was also listed as the investment manager in respect of the 
SIPP. The application was signed by Mr C on 24 February 2011. The investment platform 
was listed as Royal London 360. The SIPP application form was submitted to L&C by 
Alliance Partnership. The platform application form also lists Alliance Partnership as Mr Cs 
financial adviser. 
The SIPP was opened in March 2011, and by May 2011 just over £57,000 was transferred 
into the newly established SIPP. Funds were transferred from a number of pension plans 
including: a stakeholder plan with Standard Life (£8,167.26), a pension plan with Sun Life 
(£10,679.65), and a personal pension plan with HSBC (£38,154.71). 
Initial adviser remuneration was paid to Alliance Partnership by L&C in respect of Mr Cs 
SIPP. 
Around the same time, a Royal London 360 illustration was produced, this confirmed that the 
initial remuneration payable to Alliance Partnership was 7.5% with renewal remuneration of 
1%. This also set out that there was an early surrender fee at day one of 10.75% of the 
higher of the initial investment amount or current policy value, the surrender fee reduced to 
zero over ten years. 
The underlying investments were applied for in May 2011, the application form for this also 
listed Alliance Partnership as the investment adviser. The funds were invested via an 
offshore bond and subsequently invested in a few holdings.
On 21 November 2011, L&C wrote to Mr C explaining that it no longer had a business 
relationship with Alliance Partnership and would not be able to accept instructions from it. 
In December 2011, Alliance Partnership wrote to Mr C after L&C had ended its relationship 
with Alliance Partnership and also confirmed that L&C would no longer accept instructions 
from it. Alliance Partnership claimed that L&C had undervalued certain investments. Alliance 
Partnerships proposed solution was: 
Upon your request we can move your pension away from London Colonial to one of 
our other premium UK or Isle of Man SIPP providers which will mean we can still 
manage your investments. This would be processed as an in specie transfer free of 
charge to you and would mean that only your pensions trustee (London Colonial) 
would change, but your investment would remain the same without loss. This will 
ensure that your pension fund will continue to grow which at the end of the day is our 
main priority 
Mr C didnt proceed with this proposed course of action. Royal London 360 sent Mr C a valuation statement in August 2013, this stated that the value 
of the policy was down by just under 40%. 
On 27 October 2015, L&C issued to Mr C a closing transaction statement and asset 
valuation. Around £22,000 was transferred out of Mr Cs SIPP to another pension 
arrangement. 
Background to the complaint 
Mr C raised a complaint against L&C in 2019. Unhappy with its response, he referred his 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded 
that it should be upheld. Briefly, she found that: 
The complaint had been made in time.
Alliance Partnership passported in permissions to undertake certain types of 
activities within the UK.
Alliance Partnership was undertaking pension related activities in the UK.
L&C should have considered whether Alliance Partnership had the appropriate 
permissions to carry out pension related activities.
Alliance Partnership didnt have the requisite permissions to undertake the relevant 
activities.
L&C should have refused to accept Mr Cs application on this basis. 
L&C should have had other concerns:
oIts not clear how UK based consumers came to receive advice from this 
Czech-based firm which was passported in to undertake insurance and 
reinsurance activities. 
oThe remuneration being charged by Alliance Partnership was very high.
oThere was significant risk of consumer detriment in Mr C receiving advice 
from a Czech-based firm and investing the bulk of that in offshore 
investments. 
Mr C accepted the investigators assessment. L&C requested and were granted extensions 
to respond but despite that have to date failed to provide any response. 
Because agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been escalated to me for a 
decision. 
An investigator sent both Mr C and L&C an email on my behalf explaining that I was minded 
to uphold Mr Cs complaint for the same reasons as set out in the investigators view. I said: 
Im minded to uphold Mr Cs complaint for the same reasons as set out by the 
investigator and award compensation broadly along the same lines. But, I do think 
that the money Mr Cs received in connection with the transaction needs to be taken 
into account.
Mr C received around 10% of the value of his pension at the time from a broker 
connected to Alliance Partnership. The transaction was set up as a loan, which Mr C 
had to repay if he switched servicing agents on his pension or at the point, he 
withdraws tax-free cash from his pension. I havent seen anything that would indicate 
that Mr C has repaid the loan even though he has long since changed servicing 
agents. If Mr C hadnt gone ahead with this transaction, I dont think he would have 
received this money and if he hasnt repaid it to date, I think its very unlikely he will 
be required to in the future.This means that Mr C has received a gain from the transaction about which he now 
complains that needs to be accounted for in the redress methodology. So, if Mr C 
hasnt repaid the monies he received in connection with the transaction, these will 
need to be treated as a notional deduction from the calculation of what his pension 
monies would have been worth at the date they were transferred away from London 
& Colonial (the deduction will need to take place as at the date Mr C received the 
funds). If Mr C has in fact repaid the loan, then no deduction will need to be made in 
respect of the loan.
Neither L&C or Mr C responded to the email. So, it isnt clear whether or not Mr C has repaid 
the loan he received in connection with this transaction.
What Ive decided  and why
Jurisdiction
L&C has not responded to the investigators view, so it isnt apparent whether it agrees with 
the investigators conclusion that this complaint was made in time. As L&C has not clarified 
this, for the sake of completeness, Ive first considered jurisdiction. And, as Ive explained 
below, I agree with what the investigator has said about this.
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments in order to decide whether we can consider 
Mr Cs complaint.
Has the complaint been brought in time?
We cant consider all complaints brought to this service. Before we can consider something, 
we need to check, by reference to the FCAs DISP Rules and the legislation from which 
those rules are derived, whether the complaint is one we have the power to look at and 
whether its a complaint we should consider.
Ive carefully considered these rules when deciding Mr Cs complaint. 
DISP 2.8.2 sets out that:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:

(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other 
record of the complaint having been received;
unless:(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP
2.8.2R or DISP 2.8.7R was as a result of exceptional circumstances;

This means that, we cant consider a complaint where its been brought:
More than six years after the event took place; or (if later)
More than three years after the complainant became aware, or ought reasonably to 
have become aware, that they had cause for complaint; unless
The business consents to us looking into the complaint despite it having been 
brought out of time; or
Exceptional circumstances apply, for example, where the complainant has been 
incapacitated  and, as a result of this, was unable to bring the complaint to this 
service within the applicable time limits.
Mr C referred this complaint to L&C on 10 September 2019, the complaint raised was fairly 
technical and went into quite a lot of detail. There are various strands to Mr Cs complaint 
but, overall, the crux of the complaint is that L&C didnt carry out sufficient checks when it 
accepted Mr Cs business from Alliance Partnership and that insufficient due diligence was 
undertaken on investments made within the SIPP. 
The SIPP was established in 2011 and monies were transferred into the SIPP and invested 
in the Royal London 360 wrapper shortly thereafter. All of which occurred more than six 
years before Mr C referred his complaint to either L&C or us.
So, Ive gone on to consider whether Mr C referred his complaint more than three years from 
the date on which he either was aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, he had 
cause for complaint. And when I say here cause for complaint, I mean cause to make this 
complaint about this respondent firm, L&C, not just knowledge of cause to complain about 
anyone at all.
There are a number of points that I think are relevant to this discussion:
In order to be aware of cause for complaint the complainant should reasonably know 
theres a problem, that they have or may suffer loss, and that someone else is 
responsible for the problem  and, who that someone is. So, to have knowledge of 
cause for complaint about L&C, Mr C needs to be aware, or should reasonably be 
aware, that theres a problem which has caused, or may cause, him loss and that 
L&C is responsible.
Mr C transferred around £57,000 into his SIPP in 2011. And, by 2015, around 
£22,000 was transferred away from Mr Cs SIPP. I think the level of losses suffered 
in the space of a few years would have been disconcerting to most ordinary retail 
investors in Mr Cs position. Mr C, in my view, ought reasonably to have become 
aware that something had gone wrong by this stage. I think its unlikely this is what 
Mr C was expecting, or what he would have thought was reasonable performance for 
investments made via his pension.
I think that the information sent to Mr C meant he was aware, or should reasonably 
have been aware, that there was a problem with his pension and that hed been 
caused some loss or damage. Theres nothing Ive seen that was sent to Mr C more than three years before his 
complaint was referred to L&C that links L&C to the losses his pension monies had 
suffered. I think its worth highlighting that Mr C wasnt advised by L&C about setting 
up the SIPP or the suitability of investments. And I think the obvious first thought 
when losses were suffered would have been that his financial advisers might have 
given poor advice. Theres nothing in the correspondence sent to Mr C that would 
indicate to a reasonable retail investor in Mr Cs position that L&C had responsibility 
for the position Mr C was in  the position of having a SIPP with investments in it that 
had performed badly.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr C had been told by any third party, and more 
than three years prior to his raising a complaint with L&C in 2019, that L&C may have 
done something wrong and might be wholly or partly responsible for the position he 
was in.     
The regulator published reports on the results of two thematic reviews on SIPP 
operators in 2009 and 2012, issued guidance for SIPP operators in 2013 and wrote 
to the CEOs of SIPP operators in 2014. A common theme of those communications 
is that the regulator considered that SIPP operators had obligations in relation to their 
customers even where they dont give advice, and that many SIPP operators had a 
poor understanding of those obligations.  
In the circumstances I dont consider that Mr C should have had an understanding of 
the obligations SIPP providers were under more than three years before Mr C 
referred his complaint to L&C. 
Ive carefully considered all the evidence weve been provided and, on balance, I think 
Mr Cs individual circumstances were such that a reasonable investor in his position wouldnt 
have concluded that his SIPP operator had done something wrong more than three years 
before Mr Cs complaint was raised with L&C. 
Like the investigator, I dont think that Mr C was aware (or ought reasonably to have become 
aware) that he had cause for complaint against L&C more than three years before his 
complaint was referred to L&C. 
So, Im satisfied this complaint has been brought in time and that its one we can consider. 
Merits of this complaint 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account of 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, its appropriate to take an 
inquisitorial approach. And, ultimately, what Ill be looking at here is whether L&C took 
reasonable care, acted with due diligence and treated Mr C fairly, in accordance with his 
best interests. And what I thinks fair and reasonable in light of that. And I think the key issue 
in Mr Cs complaint is whether it was fair and reasonable for L&C to have accepted Mr Cs SIPP application in the first place. As part of that, I need to consider whether L&C 
carried out appropriate due diligence checks on Alliance Partnership before deciding to 
accept Mr Cs SIPP application from it.
Relevant considerations
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 provide: 
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman whod upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and hadnt treated 
its client fairly. Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL): 
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which Ive 
described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time 
as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments when making this decision on Mr Cs case. 
I note that the Principles for Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of the judgments say anything 
about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be 
clear, I dont say this means Adams isnt a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, Ive 
taken account of both judgments when making this decision on Mr Cs case. 
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim, on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically 
different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams 
appeal didnt so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had 
dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
In Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case would inform 
the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 148: In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction. 
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and the issues in Mr Cs complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 
120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he wasnt asked to 
consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods 
investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different.  
So, Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R  alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Mr Cs case, including L&Cs role in the transaction.  
I think its also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference to 
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in doing 
that, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which include: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This is 
a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in Adams 
v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in Mr 
Adams statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise that I dont say that L&C was under any obligation to advise Mr C 
on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an application isnt the 
same thing as advising on the merits of investing and/or transferring to the SIPP. So, to be 
clear, Ive proceeded on the understanding L&C wasnt obliged  and wasnt able  to give 
advice to Mr C on the suitability of its SIPP or the investments Mr C made within his SIPP. 
But Im satisfied L&Cs obligations included deciding whether to accept introductions of 
business from particular businesses and/or whether to accept particular investments into its 
SIPP. 
Having carefully considered the relevant considerations Im satisfied that, in order to meet 
the appropriate standards of good industry practice and the obligations set by the regulators 
rules and regulations, L&C should have carried out due diligence on Alliance Partnership to 
the sort of standard which was consistent with good industry practice and its regulatory 
obligations at the time. And that L&C should also have carried out due diligence on any 
investments to be held within the SIPP which was consistent with good industry practice and 
its regulatory obligations at the time. L&C should have used the knowledge it gained from 
that due diligence to decide whether to accept or reject a referral of business or a particular 
investment. 
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the Financial Services Authority (FSA)) issued a number of 
publications which reminded SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they 
might achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement: 
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged 
to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member 
of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of 
Principle 6 includes clients. 
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.

We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect 
them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then 
be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the members to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of 
poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP 
operators who do not safeguard their customers interests in this respect, with 
reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must take reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to 
firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning 
notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, 
together with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would 
enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their 
adviser, if it is concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the 
reasons for this.
The later publications 
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA stated: 
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 
6 and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a 
SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF 
consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members 
and SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, 
nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled 
firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear 
on the FCA website listings for un-authorised business warnings. 
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of 
the firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, 
the levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with. 
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small 
or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares 
which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it 
has any concerns. 
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation 
rights and the reasons for this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice 
given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP 
business it administers. Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm 
with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to 
launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business 
from non-regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence, the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by 
HMRC, or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is 
informed and the tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications 
and skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected parties and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum 
standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or 
accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may 
breach HMRC tax-relievable investments and non-standard investments that 
have not been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently, and
ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc.)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications to illustrate their relevance, Ive 
considered them in their entirety. 
I acknowledge that the 2009 report (and the 2012 report and the Dear CEO letter) arent 
formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, in my view the fact that 
the reports and Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal (i.e. statutory) guidance doesnt 
mean their importance or relevance should be underestimated.
The publications provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and to produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, 
these publications also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry 
practice at the relevant time. Im therefore satisfied its appropriate to take them into account.  Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman. 
And I dont think the fact the publications, (other than the 2009 Thematic Review Report), 
post-date the events that took place in relation to Mr Cs complaint, mean that the examples 
of good practice they provide werent good practice at the time of the relevant events. 
Although the later publications were published after the events subject to this complaint, the 
Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance 
with the Principles. 
Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports (and the Dear 
CEO letter in 2014) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the 
regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good 
practice standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, its 
clear the standards themselves hadnt changed.
The judge in the Adams case didnt consider the 2012 Thematic Review Report, 2013 SIPP 
operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance to his consideration of Mr 
Adams claim. But it doesnt follow that those publications are irrelevant to my consideration 
of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im required to take into 
account good industry practice at the relevant time. And, as mentioned, the publications 
indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant time.
Its important to keep in mind the judge in Adams v Options didnt consider the regulatory 
publications in the context of considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
bearing in mind various matters including the Principles (as part of the regulators rules) or 
good industry practice.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, Ill only consider L&Cs 
actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave 
non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They didnt say the suggestions given 
were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter 
notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances. 
To be clear, I dont say the Principles or the publications obliged L&C to ensure the SIPP 
and subsequent investments were suitable for Mr C. Its accepted L&C wasnt required to 
give advice to Mr C and couldnt give advice. And I accept the publications dont alter the 
meaning of, or the scope of, the Principles. But theyre evidence of what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles. 
Further, even if I considered that any publications or guidance that post-dated the events 
subject of this complaint dont help to clarify the type of good industry practice that existed at 
the relevant time (which I dont), that doesnt alter my view on what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time. Thats because I find that the 2009 Report together with 
the Principles provide a very clear indication of what L&C could and should have done to 
comply with its regulatory obligations that existed at the relevant time before accepting 
Mr Cs introduction from Alliance Partnership.
Ultimately, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether L&C complied with its 
regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, to 
take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay due regards to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the publications listed 
above to provide an indication of what L&C could have done to comply with its regulatory 
obligations. 
What did L&Cs obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business L&C was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im satisfied that 
meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. 
The regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed by 
the FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that a 
particular introducer is appropriate to deal with.
As I explain further below, I think L&C ought to have identified that Alliance Partnership was 
most likely carrying out regulated activities relating to arranging and advising on 
investments.
Alliance Partnerships regulatory status
Under Article 2 of the Insurance Mediation Directive 2002/92/EC, insurance mediation and 
reinsurance mediation are defined as: 
3. insurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying 
out other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of insurance, or of 
concluding such contracts, or of assisting in the administration and performance of 
such contracts, in particular in the event of a claim.

4. reinsurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying 
out other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of reinsurance, or of 
concluding such contracts, or of assisting in the administration and performance of 
such contracts, in particular in the event of a claim. 
In the FSAs consultation paper 201, entitled Implementation of the Insurance Mediation 
Directive for Long-term insurance business its stated (on page 7): 
We are implementing the IMD for general insurance and pure protection business 
from January 2005 (when they will require authorisation).
Unlike general insurance and pure protection policies, the sale of life and pensions 
policies is already regulated. Life and pensions intermediaries must be authorised by 
us and are subject to our regulation.
Chapter 12 of the FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) offers guidance to persons, 
such as L&C, running personal pension schemes. The guidance in place at the time the 
application was made for Mr Cs SIPP confirms that a personal pension scheme, for the 
purpose of regulated activities (PERG 12.2): 
is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (the Regulated Activities Order) as any scheme other than an 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) or a stakeholder pension scheme that is to 
provide benefits for people:
on retirement; oron reaching a particular age; or
on termination of service in an employment.
It goes on to say:
This will include self-invested personal pension schemes ('SIPPs') as well as 
personal pensions provided to consumers by product companies such as insurers, 
unit trust managers, contractual scheme managers or deposit takers (including free-
standing voluntary contribution schemes).
So, under the Regulated Activities Order, a SIPP is a personal pension scheme. Article 82 of 
the Regulated Activities Order (Part III Specified Investments) provides that rights under a 
personal pension scheme are a specified investment.
 
L&C itself had regulatory permission to establish and operate personal pension schemes  a 
regulated activity under Article 52 of the Regulated Activities Order. 
At the time of Mr Cs application, SUP App 3 of the regulators Handbook set out guidance 
on passporting issues and SUP App 3.9.7G provided the following table of permissible 
activities under Article 2(3) of the Insurance Mediation Directive in terms of the attendant 
Regulated Activities Order Article number: 
Table 2B: Insurance Mediation Directive Activities Part II RAO 
Activities Part III RAO 
Investments 
1.Introducing, proposing or carrying out other work 
preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of 
insurance.Articles 25, 53 
and 64Articles 75, 89 
(see Note 1)
2.Concluding contracts of insurance Articles 21, 25, 
53 and 64Articles 75, 89
3.Assisting in the administration and performance of 
contracts of insurance, in particular in the event of 
a claim.Articles 39A, 64 Articles 75, 89
The guidance in SUP 13A.1.2G of the Handbook at the time of Mr Cs application for the 
SIPP explains that an EEA firm wishing to carry on activities in the UK which are outside the 
scope of its EEA rights (i.e. its passporting rights) will require a top-up permission under 
Part IV of the Act (the Act being FSMA). In other words, it needs top-up permissions from 
the regulator to carry on regulated activities which arent covered by its IMD passport rights.
The relevant rules regarding top-up permissions could be found in the Handbook at SUP 
13A.7. SUP 13A.7.1G states (as at 2011): 
If a person established in the EEA: 
(1) does not have an EEA right; 
(2) does not have permission as a UCITS qualifier; and
(3) does not have, or does not wish to exercise, a Treaty right (see SUP 13A.3.4 G 
to SUP 13A.3.11 G);to carry on a particular regulated activity in the United Kingdom, it must seek Part 
IV permission from the FSA to do so (see the FSA website "How do I get 
authorised": http://www.fsa.gov.uk/Pages/Doing/how/index.shtml). This might 
arise if the activity itself is outside the scope of the Single Market Directives, or 
where the activity is included in the scope of a Single Market Directive but is not 
covered by the EEA firm's Home State authorisation. If a person also qualifies 
for authorisation under Schedules 3, 4 or 5 of the Act as a result of its other 
activities, the Part IV permission is referred to in the Handbook as a top-up 
permission.
In the glossary section of the regulators Handbook EEA authorisation is defined as: 
(in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 3 to the Act (EEA Passport Rights)):
(a) in relation to an IMD insurance intermediary or an IMD reinsurance 
intermediary, registration with its Home State regulator under article 3 of the 
Insurance Mediation Directive;
(b) in relation to any other EEA firm, authorisation granted to an EEA firm by 
its Home State regulator for the purpose of the relevant Single Market 
Directive.
The guidance at SUP App 3 of the FSA Handbook (which Ive set out above) was readily 
available in 2011 and clearly illustrated that EEA-authorised firms may only carry out 
specified regulated activities in the UK if they have the relevant EEA passport rights. 
In this case the regulated activities in question didnt fall under IMD passporting, and they 
required FSA permission for Alliance Partnership to conduct them in the UK. L&C, acting in 
accordance with its own regulatory obligations, should have ensured it understood the 
relevant rules, guidance and legislation Ive referred to above, (or sought advice on this, to 
ensure it could gain the proper understanding), when considering whether to accept 
business from Alliance Partnership, which was an EEA firm passporting into the UK. It 
should therefore have known  or have checked and discovered  that a business based in 
the Czech Republic that was EEA-authorised needed to have top-up permissions to give 
advice and make arrangements in relation to personal pensions in the UK. And that top-up 
permissions had to be granted by the the UK regulator, then the FSA.
The activities undertaken by Alliance Partnership 
I think the available evidence indicates Alliance Partnership was carrying out regulated 
activities. Rights under a personal pension scheme are a security and relevant investment. 
Under Article 25(1) of the Regulated Activity Order (RAO), making arrangements for 
another person to buy and sell these types of investments is a regulated activity. And under 
Article 25(2) of the RAO, making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in 
the arrangements buying and selling these types of investments is also a regulated activity.
In my view, Alliance Partnership was carrying out regulated activities within Article 25 of the 
RAO  and this ought to have been clear to L&C at the time. 
The regulators Perimeter Guidance Manual says the following about Article 25(1):
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at 
arrangements that would have the direct effect that a particular transaction is 
concluded (that is, arrangements that bring it about). It then says the following about Article 25(2): 
The activity of making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments is 
concerned with arrangements of an ongoing nature whose purpose is to facilitate the 
entering into of transactions by other parties. This activity has a potentially broad 
scope and typically applies in one of two scenarios. These are where a person 
provides arrangements of some kind: 
 
1. to enable or assist investors to deal with or through a particular firm (such 
as the arrangements made by introducers); or
2. to facilitate the entering into of transactions directly by the parties (such as 
multilateral trading facilities of any kind exchanges, clearing houses and 
service companies (for example, persons who provide communication 
facilities for the routing of orders or the negotiation of transactions)).
I think Alliance Partnerships activities here amounted to the regulated activity of making 
arrangements for the SIPP under one or other or both of the Article 25 provisions. 
But even if I thought that Alliance Partnership wasnt acting beyond its permissions by 
making arrangements (which I dont), I think it was also undertaking another regulated 
activity for which it didnt have the requisite permissions. I say this because, I think Alliance 
Partnership was advising on Mr Cs pension switches. 
Under the RAO, a SIPP is a personal pension scheme. Article 82 of the RAO (Part III 
Specified Investments) provides that rights under a personal pension scheme are a specified 
investment. Article 82 investments arent covered by the IMD.
At the point of the SIPP application, Alliance Partnership was listed as being the IFA and 
an investment manager. The stated remuneration in the form was to be paid to the 
financial adviser. Further, from his complaint to L&C and submissions to us, Im also 
satisfied that Mr C understood Alliance Partnership to be acting as his financial adviser. And 
I think that L&C also understood this to be the case. 
Taking everything into account, I think L&Cs understanding at the time of the transaction 
thats the subject of this complaint was that Alliance Partnership was giving advice on the 
switches to the SIPP, and the initial investment of monies post-transfer, and that it was 
permitted to do so. L&C should reasonably have understood the applicable regulations and, 
therefore, have readily identified that Alliance Partnership was carrying out regulated 
activities without the requisite permissions from the regulator and that there was a clear risk 
of consumer detriment in accepting introductions in these circumstances. Because Alliance 
Partnership, holding only IMD permissions, was advising on article 82 investments.  
I dont find it plausible that Alliance Partnerships advice was limited to advising on the Royal 
London 360 wrapper/or the investments within it. Indeed, the available paperwork indicates 
that it wasnt. That advice was only made possible by way of the pension switches into the 
L&C SIPP. That was the source of the monies in respect of which the Royal London 360 
advice was being given, but for the switches, the investment advice wouldnt have been 
possible because there wouldnt have been funds available for investment  any separation 
of the two under the circumstances would be artificial. 
Im satisfied that Alliance Partnership was appointed as Mr Cs financial adviser in respect of 
his SIPP as noted on the SIPP application form. And that it was providing him with advice in 
respect of this transaction. Overall, Im satisfied that Alliance Partnership was advising on the pension switches and that 
L&C understood this to be the case or would have understood this to be the case if it had 
undertaken sufficient due diligence into Alliance Partnership. 
All in all, I think its fair and reasonable to say that L&C, had it acted in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations and the standards of good practice at the time, ought to have known 
Alliance Partnership was carrying out regulated activities relating to arranging and advising 
in relation to personal pensions in the UK, for which it didnt have the requisite permissions. 
In turn, taking everything into account, it wasnt fair and reasonable for L&C to accept Mr Cs 
application in such circumstances. 
Checks L&C undertook on Alliance Partnership
As mentioned earlier, as part of our investigation L&C was asked a series of questions about 
the due diligence it undertook into Alliance Partnership but weve not received a substantive 
response from L&C to those enquiries. 
Under DISP 3.5.9 (3) R I may reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and 
take account of the failure by a party to provide information requested.
I think the regulatory publications Ive referenced earlier in this decision show that it was 
good practice to confirm both initially, and on an ongoing basis, that introducers that advise 
clients have the appropriate regulatory permissions. And I think thats applicable whether an 
advisory firm is UK based or else if its passporting into the UK.
On a previous case L&C provided us with a 26 November 2010 screenshot of a page from 
Alliance Partnerships entry on the FSA register. But that page wasnt all that L&C should 
have checked, as that page wouldnt have been sufficient for L&C to be able to conclude that 
Alliance Partnership had the required top-up permissions to advise on, or arrange, 
personal pensions in the UK. So, I think its fair to say L&C ought to have checked Alliance 
Partnerships Permission page. Had it done so Im satisfied its most likely that it would have 
discovered that Alliance Partnership didnt have the necessary top-up permissions.
In the unlikely eventuality that the register didnt make it clear whether Alliance Partnership 
had the necessary top-up permissions. For example, if the Permission page had erroneously 
been left blank, L&C ought to have taken further steps to independently verify what the 
correct position was  for example by contacting the FSA. And I think the FSA would have 
confirmed whether Alliance Partnership held any top-up permissions.
Alternatively, if L&C was unable to independently verify Alliance Partnerships permissions, I 
think its fair and reasonable to say that L&C should have then concluded that it was unsafe 
to proceed with accepting business from Alliance Partnership in those circumstances. In my 
opinion, it wasnt reasonable, and it wasnt in-line with L&Cs regulatory obligations, for it to 
proceed with accepting business from Alliance Partnership if the position wasnt clear.  
Summary
So, to summarise, I think that Alliance Partnership carried on activities for which it didnt 
have regulatory permission in the UK. I think it advised Mr C to switch to the SIPP from his 
existing pension plans and made arrangements for the switches to take place. 
In the circumstances, I think L&C should have known what activities Alliance Partnership 
was carrying out and that it didnt have the regulatory permissions to do so. Acting fairly and 
reasonably, I think that L&C should have rejected this business. I think its fair and 
reasonable to uphold this complaint on this basis alone. However, for completeness, Ive also gone on to consider what other conclusions L&C should have drawn if acting fairly and 
reasonably. 
The nature of the introduction from Alliance Partnership (anomalous features)
There were anomalous features in the business Alliance Partnership introduced to L&C that 
ought to have given rise to concerns about the risk of significant consumer detriment. 
The domicile of Alliance Partnership: 
Pension business from a UK client, advised by a Czech advisory firm despite no obvious 
connection with the country, going into a SIPP to invest through a wrapper based offshore is 
anomalous in and of itself. 
The fact that Alliance Partnership was domiciled outside the United Kingdom was a 
conspicuous and anomalous feature, in light of the business it referred to L&C. In my view 
that fact ought to have highlighted the need to make sure the EEA firm had the correct 
permission to conduct the business being proposed  i.e., a heightened check on the firms 
permissions (as above). 
Adviser remuneration:
Alliance Partnership received an initial payment of 6% of the monies Mr C invested with 
L&C. On top of this, Alliance Partnership would also receive an annual investment adviser 
fee of 1% of the policy value.
I consider the level of remuneration paid to Alliance Partnership in this case to have been an 
anomalous feature. While theres no absolute benchmark for reasonable adviser charging, 
its my view that a 6% initial, and 1% ongoing, fee in these circumstances was higher than 
what I would consider to be reasonable. And, at the very least, I think that L&C ought to have 
flagged at outset that the initial charges imposed on Mr Cs pension monies were potentially 
high.
In this case, Alliance Partnership also received remuneration from the investment provider at 
a rate of 7.5% initial and 1% ongoing, in addition to the remuneration L&C was paying to it. 
This meant that in within a year of this transaction Mr C lost around 15% of his pension to 
adviser remuneration alone. 
Summary
In summary, Im satisfied L&C either knew, or ought to have known if it acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations that: 
Alliance Partnership was undertaking regulated activities beyond the scope of its 
permissions. 
The domicile of Alliance Partnership, as opposed to the consumer Alliance 
Partnership introduced to L&C, was an anomalous feature. 
The high level of remuneration Alliance Partnership was taking was an anomalous 
feature. 
And I dont think it was fair and reasonable for L&C to accept Mr Cs application in such 
circumstances. To be clear, Ive focused on what I consider to be the main failure on L&Cs part here  its 
failure to ensure that Alliance Partnership had the requisite permissions to be undertaking 
the activities it was undertaking in relation to the business it was introducing to L&C. 
In conclusion 
L&C ought to have identified that Alliance Partnership needed top-up permissions to advise 
on and make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK, and taken all the steps 
available to it to independently verify that Alliance Partnership had the required permissions 
to give advice or make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK. 
Had it done so, Im satisfied that L&C would have established Alliance Partnership didnt 
have the permissions it required, or that it was unable to confirm whether Alliance 
Partnership had the required permissions. 
In either event, it wasnt in accordance with its regulatory obligations or good industry 
practice for L&C to proceed to accept business from Alliance Partnership. 
Additionally, L&C ought to have considered the anomalous features of this business Ive 
outlined above. These were further factors relevant to L&Cs acceptance of Mr Cs 
application which emphasised the need for adequate due diligence to be carried out on 
Alliance Partnership. 
Im therefore satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that L&C shouldnt have accepted 
Mr Cs application from Alliance Partnership. 
Due diligence on the underlying investments
In light of my conclusions about L&Cs regulatory obligations to carry out sufficient due 
diligence on introducers  and, given my finding that in the circumstances of this complaint 
L&C failed to comply with these obligations  Ive not considered L&Cs obligations under the 
Principles in respect of carrying out sufficient due diligence on the underlying investments. 
Its my view that had L&C complied with its obligations under the Principles to carry out 
sufficient due diligence checks on Alliance Partnership, then this arrangement wouldnt have 
come about in the first place.
Was it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for L&C to proceed with Mr Cs 
application?
In its response to Mr Cs complaint L&C said that it was obliged to proceed in accordance 
with COBS 11.2.19R.
Before considering this point, I think its important for me to reiterate that, it wasnt fair and
reasonable, for L&C to have accepted Mr Cs application from Alliance Partnership in the 
first place. So, in my opinion, Mr Cs SIPP shouldnt have been established and the 
opportunity to execute investment instructions or proceed in reliance on an indemnity 
shouldnt have arisen at all.
COBS 11.2.19R
I note that L&C made the point that COBS 11.2.19R obliged it to execute investment 
instructions. It effectively says that once the SIPP has been established, its required to 
execute the specific instructions of its client.However, in the circumstances its my view that the crux of the issue in this complaint is 
whether L&C should have accepted the SIPP application from Alliance Partnership and 
established Mr Cs SIPP in the first place.
An argument about having to execute the transaction as a result of COBS 11.2.19R was 
considered and rejected by the judge in BBSAL. In that case Jacobs J said:
The heading to COBS 11.2.1R shows that it is concerned with the manner in which 
orders are to be executed: i.e. on terms most favourable to the client. This is 
consistent with the heading to COBS 11.2 as a whole, namely: Best execution. The 
text of COBS 11.2.1R is to the same effect. The expression when executing orders 
indicates that it is looking at the moment when the firm comes to execute the order, 
and the way in which the firm must then conduct itself. It is concerned with the 
mechanics of execution; a conclusion reached, albeit in a different context, in Bailey 
& Anr v Barclays Bank [2014] EWHC 2882 (QB), paras [34]  [35]. It is not 
addressing an anterior question, namely whether a particular order should be 
executed at all. I agree with the FCAs submission that COBS 11.2 is a section of the 
Handbook concerned with the method of execution of client orders, and is designed 
to achieve a high quality of execution. It presupposes that there is an order being 
executed, and refers to the factors that must be taken into account when deciding 
how best to execute the order. It has nothing to do with the question of whether or 
not the order should be accepted in the first place.
And I dont think that L&Cs argument on this point is relevant to its obligations under the 
Principles to decide whether to accept an application to open a SIPP in the first place or to 
make the initial investments.
Indemnity
I think L&C ought to have been cautious about accepting Mr Cs application even though he 
had signed an indemnity. L&C had to act in a way that was consistent with the regulatory 
obligations Ive set out in this decision.
My remit is to make a decision on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
And my view is that its fair and reasonable to say that just having Mr C sign an indemnity 
declaration wasnt an effective way for L&C to meet its regulatory obligations to treat him 
fairly, given the concerns L&C ought to have had about accepting business from Alliance 
Partnership.
L&C knew that Mr C had signed a form intended to indemnify it against losses that arose 
from acting on his instructions. And, in my opinion, relying on such an indemnity when L&C 
knew, or ought to have known, Mr Cs dealings with Alliance Partnership were putting him at 
significant risk wasnt the fair and reasonable thing to do. Having identified the risks Ive 
mentioned above, its my view that the fair and reasonable thing to do would have been to 
refuse to accept Mr Cs application. 
The Principles exist to ensure regulated firms treat their clients fairly. And I dont think the 
paperwork Mr C signed meant that L&C could ignore its duty to treat him fairly. To be clear, 
Im satisfied that any indemnities contained within the contractual documents dont absolve, 
nor do they attempt to absolve, L&C of its regulatory obligations to treat customers fairly 
when deciding whether to accept or reject business. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied L&C ought to have rejected Mr Cs 
application from Alliance Partnership. If that had happened, then I think its most likely the 
contractual obligations between L&C and Mr C under the newly established SIPP would never have arisen. And it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to say the contract between Mr C 
and L&C meant L&C could ignore all red flags and proceed with Mr Cs business regardless.  
So, Im satisfied that Mr Cs SIPP shouldnt have been established and the opportunity to 
execute the initial investment instructions or proceed in reliance on an indemnity shouldnt 
have arisen at all. And Im firmly of the view that it wasnt fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances for L&C to proceed with Mr Cs application.
Is it fair to ask L&C to pay Mr C compensation in the circumstances? 
Would the business have still gone ahead if L&C had refused the application? 
Mr C went through a process with Alliance Partnership that culminated in his completing 
paperwork to set up a new L&C SIPP and with the expectancy that monies from his existing 
pension plans would be transferred into the newly established SIPP. Having gone to the time 
and effort of doing this, I think its most likely that if the L&C SIPP wasnt then established, 
and if his pension monies werent then transferred to L&C, that Mr C would have wanted to 
find out why from Alliance Partnership and L&C. 
And I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that one or more of the parties involved would 
have explained to Mr C that his application hadnt been accepted as Alliance Partnership 
didnt have the necessary permissions it needed to provide the advice, or alternatively as 
L&C wasnt satisfied that Alliance Partnership had the necessary top-up permissions to 
provide the advice. And that Mr C wouldnt then have continued to accept or act on pensions 
advice provided by Alliance Partnership.
Further, I think its very unlikely that advice from a business that did have the necessary 
permissions would have resulted in Mr C taking the same course of action. I think its 
reasonable to say that a business that had the necessary permissions would have given 
suitable advice. 
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):  
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but 
nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive.
But, in this case, Im not satisfied that Mr C proceeded in the knowledge that the investments 
he was making were high risk and speculative, and that he was determined to move forward 
with the transaction in order to take advantage of a cash incentive offered by Alliance 
Partnership. Based on what Mr C has told us he proceeded on the understanding that his 
pensions monies would be invested in a low to medium risk portfolio, that his capital would 
be secure and that he would achieve a better return by transferring. 
Mr C did receive some money in connection with this transaction, this was structured as a 
loan rather than a cash incentive. He entered into a loan agreement, this was for a sum 
equivalent to about 10% of the monies transferred into the SIPP and Mr C signed a loan 
agreement for this in February 2011.
The agreement explained that the loan was repayable in full. In my opinion, the repayable 
loan Mr C received from a third-party firm isnt the same as the type of cash incentive that 
was paid to Mr Adams in the Adams v Options case. And I think this case is very different 
from that of Mr Adams.In any event, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that if L&C had refused to 
accept Mr Cs application from Alliance Partnership, the transaction wouldnt still have gone 
ahead. That said, I think Mr C has received monies he wouldnt have received had he not 
gone ahead with the transaction. Whilst, as above, this was structured as a loan, we dont 
currently know if Mr C has repaid these monies. If Mr C hasnt repaid the monies to date, I 
think it is fair to assume that he will not now be required to repay these, in which case these 
will need to be taken into account in the loss calculation I direct L&C to undertake. Given that 
the position is unknown, Ive accounted for both possibilities in the putting things right 
section of this decision below. 
L&C might argue that another SIPP operator would have accepted Mr Cs application from 
Alliance Partnership, if it had declined it. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that 
L&C shouldnt compensate Mr C for his loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP 
operator would have made the same mistakes as Ive found it did. I think its fair instead to 
assume that another SIPP provider would have complied with its regulatory obligations and 
good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted Mr Cs application from 
Alliance Partnership. 
Further, and in any eventuality, even if another SIPP provider had been willing to accept 
Mr Cs application from Alliance Partnership, that process would still have needed Mr C to be 
willing to continue to do business with Alliance Partnership after L&C had rejected his 
application for another application to proceed. And, for the reasons Ive given above, Im not 
satisfied that Mr C would have continued to accept or act on pension advice from Alliance 
Partnership in such circumstances. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that if L&C had 
refused to accept Mr Cs application from Alliance Partnership, the transaction wouldnt have 
gone ahead. 
The involvement of Alliance Partnership
In this decision Im considering Mr Cs complaint about L&C. While it may be the case that 
Alliance Partnership gave unsuitable advice to Mr C, L&C had its own distinct set of 
obligations when considering whether to accept Mr Cs application for a SIPP. 
Alliance Partnership had a responsibility not to conduct regulated business that went beyond 
the scope of its permissions. L&C wasnt required to ensure Alliance Partnership complied 
with that responsibility. But L&C had its own distinct regulatory obligations under the 
Principles. And this included to check that firms introducing advised business to it had the 
regulatory permissions to be doing so. In my view, L&C failed to comply with these 
obligations in this case. 
Im satisfied that if L&C had carried out sufficient due diligence on Alliance Partnership and 
acted in accordance with good practice and its regulatory obligations by independently 
checking Alliance Partnerships permissions before accepting business from it, L&C wouldnt 
have done any SIPP business with Alliance Partnership in the first place. 
I also think that if Mr C had been told that Alliance Partnership was acting outside its 
permissions in giving pension advice, or alternatively that L&C wasnt satisfied that Alliance 
Partnership had the necessary top-up permissions to provide such advice, he wouldnt 
have continued to accept or act on advice from it. And, having taken into account all the 
circumstances of this case, its my view that its fair and reasonable to hold L&C responsible 
for its failure to identify that Alliance Partnership didnt have the required top-up 
permissions to be giving advice and making arrangements on personal pensions in the UK. The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation (DISP 
3.7.2R). 
As I set out above, in my opinion its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
hold L&C accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant regulatory obligations 
and to treat Mr C fairly. 
The starting point, therefore, is that it would be fair to require L&C to pay Mr C compensation 
for the loss hes suffered as a result of L&Cs failings. Ive considered whether theres any 
reason why it wouldnt be fair to ask L&C to compensate Mr C for his loss, including if it 
would be fair to hold another party liable in full or in part. And Im satisfied its appropriate 
and fair in the circumstances for L&C to compensate Mr C to the full extent of the financial 
losses hes suffered due to its failings. 
I accept that it may be the case that Alliance Partnership is responsible for initiating the 
course of action that led to Mr Cs loss. However, its also the case that if L&C had complied 
with its own distinct regulatory obligations as a SIPP operator, the arrangement for Mr C 
wouldnt have come about in the first place, and the loss hes suffered could have been 
avoided. 
If it wishes, L&C can have the option to take an assignment of any rights of action Mr C has 
against Alliance Partnership in respect of the events this complaint concerns before 
compensation is paid. And the compensation can be made contingent upon Mr Cs 
acceptance of this term.
The key point here is that but for L&Cs failings, Mr C wouldnt have suffered the loss hes 
suffered. So, even if an assignment of action against Alliance Partnership proves worthless, 
this wouldnt lead me to change my overall view on this point. And Im satisfied that its 
appropriate and fair in the circumstances for L&C to compensate Mr C to the full extent of 
the financial losses hes suffered due to its failings, and notwithstanding any failings by 
Alliance Partnership. And, taking into account the combination of factors Ive set out above, 
Im not persuaded that it would be appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the 
compensation amount that L&C is liable to pay to Mr C.    
Mr C taking responsibility for his own investment decisions 
Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to say Mr Cs actions mean he should bear 
the loss arising as a result of L&Cs failings. 
Mr C took advice from an authorised adviser (albeit one acting outside the permissions it 
held) and used the services of a regulated personal pension provider, L&C. 
Im satisfied that if L&C had undertaken reasonable due diligence measures and drawn 
appropriate conclusions about the business Alliance Partnership was undertaking (acting 
beyond its permissions) that L&C shouldnt have accepted Mr Cs business from Alliance 
Partnership. 
And I think that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, its fair to say L&C should 
compensate Mr C for the losses hes suffered, including any charges that were suffered as a 
result of realising monies from Royal London 360. But for L&Cs failings, Mr C wouldnt have 
switched to the L&C SIPP or invested through the Royal London 360 wrapper in the first 
place. And I dont think it would be fair to say in the circumstances that Mr C should suffer 
the loss because he ultimately instructed those investments be effected.Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr C to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
L&Cs failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting his SIPP 
application.
Prior to transferring to L&C, Mr Cs monies were held in several pension plans, but for L&C 
accepting Mr Cs business from Alliance Partnership, I think Mr C would most likely simply 
have remained invested in those pension plans.
Similarly, if Mr C had sought advice from a different adviser, who had the necessary 
permissions, I think its most likely the advice would have been to stay in his existing pension 
plans. I think its unlikely that another adviser, acting properly, would have advised Mr C to 
transfer into the L&C SIPP and invest in/through the Royal London 360 arrangement. 
So, if L&C hadnt accepted Mr Cs application, I think Mr C would have remained with his 
previous providers. However, I cannot be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the 
previous policies would have been worth as at 27 October 2015 (when Mr C transferred his 
pension monies away from L&C). Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable, taking this into account.
What must L&C do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, L&C must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous providers. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
L&C should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
L&C should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If L&C is unable to pay the total amount into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr C wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr C £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the loss of a significant amount of his pension funds.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If L&C deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. L&C should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr C asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
L&C SIPP No longer in 
forceNotional 
values from 
previous 
providersDate of 
investment27 October
2015 (the
date monies
were
transferred
away)8% simple 
per year on 
any loss from 
the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr C's investment had it remained with the previous providers until the 
end date. In other words, this is the combined notional value of Mr C's previous pension 
plans as at 27 October 2015, and assuming they hadnt been transferred to the L&C SIPP. 
L&C should request that the previous providers calculate these notional values and
it should then add these values together.
If the previous providers are unable to calculate notional values, L&C will need to determine 
a fair value for Mr C's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from 
fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using 
the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of 
compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted his monies to be invested in a low to medium risk portfolio.
If the previous providers are unable to calculate notional values, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.Based on his submissions, I consider that Mr C's risk profile was in between, in the 
sense that he was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment 
objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr C into that position. 
It does not mean that Mr C would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr C could have 
obtained from investments in line with his risk attitude, as described in his 
submissions to this service.
Treatment of the monies Mr C received as a loan in connection with this transaction
If Mr C has repaid the monies paid to him as a loan in connection with this transaction (as I 
understand it, this was an amount of £5,700), then no further action needs to be taken in 
relation to this and L&C should undertake the calculation as set out above without 
adjustment for these funds. 
If Mr C hasnt repaid this, then the funds he received in connection with this transaction will 
need to be taken into account. 
L&C should ask the previous pension providers to treat the amount Mr C received as a 
notional deduction from their notional calculations as at the date Mr C received the £5,700. 
There are three separate ceding pension providers, I think the fairest way to deal with this, 
is for the sum received to be split three ways, so each provider is asked to calculate the 
notional value on the basis that a notional withdrawal of £1,900 was made. 
If L&C is unable to obtain, or there are any difficulties in obtaining, notional values from the 
ceding pension providers and it calculates the notional value of Mr Cs pension by using the 
benchmark set out above, then it should treat the amount Mr C received as a notional 
withdrawal from the calculation, as at the date he received the funds. 
Alternatively, for ease, L&C may choose to simply deduct £5,700 from the overall loss 
position established.
Mr C should confirm the correct position in respect of the £5,700 within 14 days of 
acceptance of my final decision.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that London & Colonial Services Limited must pay 
the amount calculated as set out above.
London & Colonial Services Limited must provide details of its calculation to Mr C in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman