DRN-3082505
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Zurich Insurance PLC unfairly refused to pay a claim on his motor 
insurance policy, cancelled it and accused him of fraud.
What happened
Mr M held a multicar policy with Zurich since 2014. One of the cars insured on the policy 
developed a fault. Mr M took it to a manufacturers dealership/garage (the garage) to be 
serviced and repaired. The garage told him the car would require a new part and repairs 
would cost around £1,000. Mr M asked the garage about part-exchanging it. The garage told 
him the car was only worth £2,000 and so it could only give him £1,000 for the car.
Mr M didn't accept the garages offer and asked it to repair the car. The garage said the 
replacement part required would take some weeks to arrive. While the car was with the 
garage it went missing and the garage reported it stolen. Mr M thought the garage should be 
liable for the loss of his car but he also claimed on his Zurich policy.
Zurich investigated the claim as did the police. Mr M told Zurich he had two keys for the car: 
an original key and a spare which had been cut around three years earlier. Mr M said that 
the original spare key which came with the car had been misplaced around five years ago 
and he didn't know where it was.
While Zurich was investigating the claim the car was stopped by police. It was being driven 
with false plates and using the original spare key (which Mr M said was lost).
Zurich concluded that the only way the car could have been taken using the original key was 
if the thief had access to it and knew the car was at the garage. Zurich said that could only 
have happened if Mr M had been complicit with the theft. So it refused to pay the claim and 
cancelled Mr Ms policies with it.
Mr M didn't think that was fair. He said the notion that he was complicit with the theft was 
ludicrous, absurd and preposterous. He brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional 
decision on 31 August 2021. For ease I've copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M is clearly a very successful individual. He insured a number of cars with Zurich, some 
of which are of high value. So it would seem strange that he would risk involving himself in a 
staged theft and fraudulent insurance claim for the sake of an eight year old hatchback, 
which at best would only produce a relatively small return.
In contrast Zurich said Mr Ms initial motivation for his involvement in the theft was because 
he was shocked by the garages part-exchange offer for his car and he wanted the garage to 
pay for a replacement.
I need to say at the outset that its not my role to determine exactly what happened. Nor is it 
for me to make any kind of ruling about whether or not a fraud has been committed, as 
ultimately that's a matter for the courts and the relevant enforcement agencies. Instead my 
role is to look at whether Zurich has looked into matters thoroughly and treated Mr M fairly 
and reasonably. And that means that Zurich may make a decision Mr M doesn't agree with, 
but that doesn't automatically mean Zurich has handled the matter unfairly.
Ive thought very carefully about how Zurich came to its view about whats most likely to 
have happened. I've noted that Zurich investigated the matter thoroughly, it appointed 
external investigators who interviewed staff at the garage as well as Mr M. It also interviewed 
Mr M itself and liaised with the police. Having done so Zurich has raised a number of points 
about Mr Ms evidence and the credibility of that. For example its cited Mr Ms failure to tell it 
accurately about points on his licence when taking out and renewing his policies over a 
number of years as evidence of Mr Ms willingness to make a misrepresentation. But there 
can be other reasons for such misrepresentations that could be as simple as - for example - 
Mr M forgot to tell his broker about the points initially and then didn't carefully check his 
documents at renewal.
Similarly, Zurich has noted that Mr M can't find the cars V5. But I don't find that particularly 
relevant. Documents can easily be misplaced. And sometimes that isn't discovered until the 
document in question is needed. In any event the car had been reported as stolen and would 
have been easily identifiable as stolen on publicly available information if someone had tried 
to sell it using the V5. And its notable that when recovered the car was being driven on false 
plates. So the V5 wouldn't have helped the driver of the car at the time to claim ownership of 
it, as the plates on the car wouldn't have matched the V5.
But there is one piece of evidence relied upon by Zurich that I find significantly calls into 
question Mr M's version of events. Thats the fact that the car was being driven with its 
original spare key when recovered. That means that whoever took the car almost certainly 
already had access to that key.
It seems to me that there are two likely explanations for that:
The thief found the car unlocked then found the key inside and used it to steal the 
car.
The thief already had the key and knew where the car was in order to be able to take 
it.
Mr M said that the key in question went missing around five years earlier. So, it would seem 
more likely than not that if the key had gone missing while in the car, then it would have 
been found sooner. For example, when the key was first noticed as missing - for most 
people - one of the first places to search for it would almost certainly have been inside the 
car itself. So if it wasn't found then its unlikely the key was in an obvious place within the car 
that would be likely to be found by an opportunist thief. Further, within those five years the 
car would have been serviced and put through MOTs etc, so I find it extremely unlikely that 
the missing key wouldn't have been found sooner if it had been somewhere inside the car. It 
follows that I don't think that the thief somehow found the key in the car.
That would mean that the thief already had possession of the key and knew where the car 
was in order to be able to take it. And I think it was reasonable for Zurich to think that the 
only people who could realistically have had access to the original spare key and known 
where the car was on the night of the theft was Mr M or one of his family. But I can't see why 
one of Mr Ms family would have anything to gain by taking the car away from the garage.The only person who stood to gain anything from that was Mr M. And it's clear that this is 
what Zurich thought was more likely than not to have happened. That is, on the balance of 
probabilities, it believed Mr M had passed the key to someone else, and told them where the 
car was, so that they could drive it away. In other words, Zurich believe Mr M was complicit 
with the theft of the car. And, given the evidence of the lost spare key being found with the 
car, I think Zurichs conclusion was reasonable. It follows that I think Zurichs decision to 
decline Mr Ms claim and cancel his policies was fair. So I don't intend to instruct Zurich to 
take any further action.
Developments
Mr M didn't agree with my provisional decision. He said his complaint wasn't about Zurich 
refusing his claim but about its conduct in investigating and handling it. Particularly he said it 
was about Zurich cancelling his policies without warning and the issues that caused for him, 
including adding his name to a fraud database. He added that Zurich had ignored the 
advice from Police and IFED (the city of London Polices Insurance Fraud Enforcement 
Department). 
Mr M also said that he hadn't wanted the garage to pay for a replacement car, but instead 
suggested it find a replacement as the car had been stolen from its premises. 
Mr M put forward another explanation for the theft. That was that the missing key was in the 
car all along, most likely in the drivers handbook with the V5. And, after hed asked about a 
part-exchange a garage employee had found the spare key and arranged the car's theft. 
Mr M said the car had been with the garage for a number of weeks so it was possible the 
thief found the key during that time and returned later to steal it. He said the garage told him 
that its CCTV didn't cover the area where the car was stolen from and perhaps the thief was 
aware of this.
Mr M also said it was possible that the key was in the car but wasn't found during servicing, 
at MOTs etc because that wouldn't require the opening of the glove box. But that a garage 
contemplating buying the car on part-exchange would want to know that it came with its 
handbook.
Mr M added that he would have thought most people would keep a spare key in a safe place 
away from the car, so said the car itself would be the last place to look for it. He said it was 
possible that, as various family members used the car, the spare key could have stayed with 
the handbook. He said it was possible that his named drivers didn't look at the handbook 
and, if they did, thought that was where the spare key belonged. 
Further, Mr M said that he had little to gain from the theft. He said the £1,000 it was 
acknowledged the car was worth would be mostly immaterial to him. And he thinks Zurich 
should have known that. Hes said Zurichs conclusion that he was complicit in the theft is 
based on an assumption that he knows criminals who would break into a garage and steal a 
car. He said that on the balance of probabilities, given his age and status, he wouldn't fit the 
bill of that sort of individual and he doesn't know anyone who would commit such an act. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr M believes that his responses to my provisional decision show that on the balance of 
probabilities Zurichs decisions about his claim were unreasonable. But I don't find his replies 
persuasive.
Mr M said the focus of his complaint wasnt Zurichs decision to decline his claim but the 
manner in which it conducted itself, not least by cancelling his insurance at such short 
notice. My complaint summary is intended to be exactly that, a summary of the key points of 
complaint outstanding. So I won't refer in it to each point raised. And having read the entire 
file its clear that Mr Ms main gripe is that Zurich declined his claim, cancelled his policy and 
added his name to a fraud database. Mr M did also complain about the short notice with 
which it cancelled his policy, and I've commented on that below, But I'm satisfied that my 
complaint summary is a fair reflection of his main points of complaint.
Mr M also said that Zurich didn't carry out an adequate investigation and ignored the 
advice of police. But I disagree. I've had the benefit of reading Zurichs full file and I think it 
investigated the matter thoroughly, appointing external investigators and interviewing garage 
staff as well as Mr M twice in the process. It also liaised with police, including IFED. 
I've seen no evidence that Zurich ignored advice from any police force or unit involved in 
this matter. I think its also worth making the point that, in order to launch a prosecution, the 
police need to be satisfied that they have evidence of a wrongdoing beyond reasonable 
doubt. And if the police don't believe they can prove an individual has committed a crime 
beyond reasonable doubt theyre unlikely to prosecute. So the fact the police decide not to 
prosecute a suspect doesn't mean that person is now beyond suspicion or has been 
exonerated. It simply means the police weren't satisfied they had enough evidence to 
convince a judge or jury of their suspicions beyond reasonable doubt. 
In contrast the test for Zurich in a civil  as opposed to criminal  matter is the balance of 
probabilities. So it can be reasonable for Zurich to find Mr M was complicit with an action 
where police didn't launch a prosecution, as the balance of probabilities is a lower bar to 
cross. And as I've said above, I've seen no evidence that Zurich ignored any advice from 
police and I think it investigated the matter reasonably.
Mr M said that Zurich was wrong to say he wanted the garage to pay for a replacement car, 
instead he wanted the garage to supply a replacement. While theres a distinction between 
the two points the impact is the same. It would still mean the garage finding a car for Mr M 
that he wouldn't need to pay for himself.
Mr M suggested another explanation for the theft. That is that a garage employee found the 
spare key in the car and then used that to perpetrate the theft. This was something I 
considered before arriving at my provisional decision. But I thought the possibility of that 
happening to be so remote as I didn't consider it a likely occurrence. 
That was because, for the reasons given in my provisional decision, I found that the 
possibility of a lost spare key remaining in a car and being unfound for five years highly 
improbable. Ive noted what Mr M said about his named drivers not seeing it or realising it 
shouldnt be there but Im not persuaded by those arguments. Thats in part because I think 
most people are aware that leaving a key in a car would invalidate a claim for a cars theft, 
as its a point highlighted in most motor insurance policies I'm aware of. But even if Mr Ms 
family weren't aware of that, as Mr M himself argued, I find it difficult to believe that they 
would believe the best place to keep a spare key would be inside a car, where it would be of 
little use to anyone. So I don't believe, on the balance of probabilities, that the key was 
unknowingly left in the car to be found by a garage employee. It follows that I find the 
likelihood of a garage employee being involved in the theft highly improbable and, as such, I discounted it. It follows that I don't intend to comment on Mr Ms other points concerning 
the involvement of the garage in the theft.
I've also noted Mr Ms point about any gain from involving himself in the theft as being 
almost immaterial to him. And this was something I commented on in my provisional 
decision. But its worth noting that at the time of the theft Mr M had his car insured for an 
agreed value of £5,000. So, if Zurich had paid out on the claim it would have paid him 
£5,000. And this is a point he made to staff at the garage when they told him about the theft. 
So, it appears he stood to gain significantly more than the car was worth if he claimed from 
Zurich. Alternatively, if the garage made good the loss of the car, then he stood to gain a 
replacement car which didn't need repairing and he didn't need to pay for. 
Mr M said that, given his age and status, Zurich should have known he wasn't the type of 
individual to involve himself in a criminal activity of this nature. He said he wouldnt know 
those sorts of individuals. I agree it would seem an extremely foolhardy action, for most 
people let alone for a successful individual like Mr M, to involve themselves in. But any 
apparent foolhardiness alone doesn't give good reason for me to think Zurich shouldnt have 
concluded the matter as it did. I think on the basis of the evidence I've seen, that Zurich 
handled the matter reasonably.
I'm aware that the manner in which Zurich cancelled Mr Ms policy would have come as a 
shock and an incredible inconvenience for him. But his policy says that if Zurich believes he 
is involved in the concealment of fraud then it may do just that. So as, following a reasonable 
investigation and consideration, it acted in line with its policy terms, I'm not going to instruct it 
to take any further action. 
I understand that Mr M is likely to be extremely disappointed by my findings. So I'll take this 
opportunity to remind him that he doesnt need to accept them. And, in those circumstances, 
he could pursue whatever actions he thinks is necessary, for example through the courts, in 
order to resolve his complaint against Zurich. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman