DRN-4222353
The complaint
Ms M complains about Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) and their refusal to 
cover the costs of repairs need to her car, caused by damage she felt occurred while her car 
was in the care of Skyfires approved repairer.
What happened
Ms M held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by Skyfire. Unfortunately, in August 2022, 
Ms M was involved in a multi-car road traffic accident which caused damaged to her car. So, 
she contacted Skyfire to claim on her insurance policy.
Skyfire accepted the claim, and they arranged for their approved repairer, who Ill refer to as 
A, to complete necessary repairs. These repairs were completed at the start of November, 
with the delay being caused by the availability of parts, which Ms M herself has accepted.
On 3 November, the day after she received her car back, Ms M contacted Skyfire to advise 
her left-hand front wheel and suspension were mis-aligned. And that shed been told by a 
local garage that her car was unroadworthy because of this. A arranged to collect the car, 
but disputed that damage was accident related. And Ms M told Skyfire she believed the 
misalignment had been caused by A themselves when it was in their care. So, Skyfire 
agreed to arrange an independent engineer, who Ill refer to as H, to inspect the car.
This inspection took place on 21 November. And H provided a report which stated that the 
damage wasnt accident related. Nor could H directly attribute the damage to the actions of 
A. So, Skyfire relied on the content of this report and they refused to cover the costs of any 
further repairs. Ms M was unhappy with this, so she raised a complaint.
Ms M felt the check in sheet signed when her car was taken in by A in September showed 
no damage to front wheel or suspension. So, based on this and As admission they had 
needed to repair a puncture on that tyre, Ms M felt it was clear the misalignment had been 
caused by A. So, she disputed Hs report and Skyfires refusal to cover the costs of the 
repairs need to rectify the misalignment. And she also wanted to be compensated for the 
service Skyfire provided to her from November 2022, including the length of time it took them 
to respond to her complaint.
Skyfire responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They thought the onus was on Ms 
M to pay for the repairs to rectify the misalignment as they were satisfied Hs report stated 
that damage wasnt accident related, or the fault of A. So, they thought they were fair to 
refuse covering these costs. But they accepted their service fell below the standard theyd 
expect, and they offered to pay Ms M £150 to recognise this. Ms M rejected this offer but has 
confirmed the following day she accepted a £200 offer from Skyfire on a without prejudice 
basis to compensate her for Skyfires service failings only. She remained unhappy with their 
decision not to cover the misalignment repair costs and so, she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the £200 paid 
by Skyfire was fair to recognise the delays, and lack of communication, Ms M encountered 
during the claim process. And while they took on board Ms Ms testimony regarding As 
comments when her car was collected, and her unhappiness with Hs report, they were 
satisfied Hs report made it reasonably clear the misalignment couldnt be attributed to the 
accident, or the actions of A. So, they thought Skyfire were fair to rely on this report and 
were reasonable when refusing to cover the costs of the repairs required.
Ms M didnt agree. And she re-emphasised many of the comments she already made 
regarding both H, and A. These included, and are not limited to, her belief the check in sheet 
showed no damage to the area around the wheel that was misaligned. So, she felt this made 
it clear the damage wasnt present when A received the car. Ms M also made 
representations about the report H provided, and what H inspected on Skyfires instruction. 
As Ms M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I note in Ms Ms communication to our service, shes confirmed she accepted a payment of 
£200 to compensate her for the service failures of Skyfire. As a payment was offered by 
Skyfire, and accepted by Ms M, I think its reasonable for me to assume this aspect of Ms 
Ms complaint has been resolved. And so, I wont be discussing the merits of this complaint 
in any further detail. But for completeness, I do want to reassure Ms M that I think this 
payment falls in line with our services approach, considering the delays that Skyfire were 
responsible for and Skyfires acceptance that the information they provided couldve been 
clearer, and more regular. It also considers the fact complaint handling is an unregulated 
activity and so, any complaint Ms M had about the way Skyfire handled her complaint, or the 
time they took to respond, falls outside of our services jurisdiction and so isnt something we 
can consider compensation for.
Ive then focused on the main point that remains in dispute, which centres around the 
misalignment of Ms Ms front wheel and who is responsible for the costs of repairing this.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms M. I appreciate she feels 
very strongly about the situation, and where she feels the damage to her front wheel and 
suspension occurred. And I note Ms M has needed to cover the costs of the repairs herself, 
which will no doubt have had an unforeseen financial impact. So, as Ms M feels A, acting on 
behalf of Skyfire, caused the damage, I can appreciate why Ms A feels that Skyfire should 
cover the costs shes incurred.
But for me to say Skyfire should cover these costs, I first need to be satisfied theyve done 
something wrong. So, in this situation, Id need to be satisfied they failed to assess all of the 
information available to them regarding the damage reasonably and that they reached an 
unfair conclusion when deciding to refuse covering any additional costs. 
In this situation, I dont think thats the case.
I think its important to make clear that its not my role to re-underwrite the claim, as I dont 
have the expertise to do so. Im also unable to say for certain exactly what happened 
regarding the misalignment, or what A said to Ms M and her representatives in person, as I 
wasnt there at the time. So, I dont intend to speculate on what I think did or didnt happen. Instead, its my role to consider the actions of Skyfire, and decide whether I think these were 
fair and reasonable considering the situation and the evidence available to them. 
In this situation, Im satisfied Skyfire took Ms Ms concerns about the misalignment seriously 
as they agreed for A to recollect the car and then arranged for independent expert, H, to 
inspect the car and the damage Ms M felt it had sustained. These are the actions Id expect 
Skyfire to take, and I think they are the actions another insurer wouldve taken, in a similar 
situation.
Ive seen Hs report from this inspection. And as the start of the report, it states that The 
purpose of my inspection was to carry out a post repair report to the above vehicle in relation 
to your insured complaint to determine whether the repairer has been negligent. And later 
within the report, H concluded that it is in my opinion that any suspension issue would not 
be due to the repairs undertaken and neither in my opinion due to the repairer being 
negligent as well as explaining that given the tyre was, or had, deflated it is more than likely 
that in my opinion the steering suspension misalignment is due to a pothole impact.
So, Im satisfied H was instructed to consider the actions of the repairer and whether they 
were responsible for the damage, as well as whether it was accident related. And Im 
satisfied that Hs report make it reasonably clear their belief was that the damage wasnt the 
fault of the repairer and instead, likely to have arisen from a pothole impact.
As H were the independent expert, I think Skyfire were reasonable to rely on the report H 
provided, and the conclusions contained within it. This follows standard industry approach 
and what Id expect another insurer to do in the same situation. So, on this occasion, I dont 
think I can say Skyfire acted unfairly when deciding not to cover the costs of the repair work 
needed to rectify the misalignment.
But I do understand Ms M has serious concerns about this report, and H themselves. But as 
H were acting independently, rather than as an agent of Skyfire, any concerns about H and 
the report would need to be raised with H directly. Skyfire arent responsible for any 
complaint Ms M has about the report, and the information included within it.
And I also recognise Ms H has referred back to the check-in sheet completed when A initially 
took Ms Ms car in September 2022. I want to reassure Ms M Ive considered this sheet, and 
her comments surrounding this, at length. But having considered this check in sheet, I dont 
think the fact the misalignment wasnt noted means the misalignment definitely wasnt 
present at the time. And the same can be said for the deflated tyre as tyres can deflate 
slowly, over a significant period.
Ive seen a report provided to Skyfire by H in January 2023, following a conversation with Ms 
M directly regarding her complaint concerns. And it states within this report I found the left-
hand wheel to be sitting off inwards at the top. It is in my opinion that if this damage was 
indeed pre-existing the repairer may not have picked up on this at the time of check in.
Because of this, I dont think I can say Skyfire have acted unreasonably by not overturning 
their decision when considering Ms Ms comments regarding the check in sheet, as I dont 
think I can say for certain that the damage wouldve been noticeable at the time the check in 
sheet was completed.
So, without any evidence to say definitively that A were responsible for the misalignment 
later found, such as another engineers report holding A responsible, I dont think Im able to 
say Skyfire have acted unfairly when refusing to cover the costs Ms M incurred repairing the 
issue herself. And so, I dont think they need to do anything more on this occasion.I understand this isnt the outcome Ms M was hoping for. And I recognise I may not have 
commented on every point Ms M has raised. But I want to reassure Ms M Ive considered all 
of her testimony, and all of the information on file, whether or not Ive referred to it directly. 
And having done so, I dont think I have seen evidence that satisfies me Skyfire have acted 
unreasonably on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint about Skyfire Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman