DRN-3238098
The complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid Credit Card irresponsibly allowed him to 
open a credit card account which was unaffordable and later increased the credit limit.
What happened
Mr B says Fluid should not have allowed him to open a credit card account due to his 
financial position. He says he had a previous default registered on his credit file and was on 
a Debt Management Plan. Mr B says appropriate credit checks were not carried out and that 
he had Payday lending at the time. He also says the credit limit on the account was 
increased twice. Mr B would like interest refunded.
Fluid says the account was opened in June 2018 and that Mr B had income of £27,000. It 
says it approved a modest £600 credit limit which was increased in June 2019 to £1,850 and 
again in September 2019 to £2,600. Fluid accepts the last increase should not have been 
approved and has refunded interest. It says appropriate checks were carried out and that the 
previous default was some four years before the account was opened by it.
Mr B brought the complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator thought appropriate checks were carried out when the account was opened. But 
that appropriate checks were not carried out on the first credit limit increase which would 
have revealed signs of unaffordability. The investigator thought there was evidence of cash 
withdrawals and limited repayments being made. The investigator recommended interest be 
refunded and Mr Bs credit file also amended from the first increase date.
Mr B accepts that view.
Fluid doesnt accept that view and says there wasnt any signs of financial stress. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint in part for the 
reasons I will explain.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending or credit application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of any such lending. This was an application for a credit facility rather than for 
example a loan or mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected Fluids checks to have been as 
detailed compared to that type of lending. But of course, checks must still be carried out.
There is no longer any real complaint by Mr B about the original account opening and I can 
see that he accepts the investigators view about that. I will not in those circumstances 
comment further but to say that I also agree appropriate checks were carried out and a 
modest credit limit of £600 approved. But I also think that Fluid ought to have been aware 
that Mr B did have signs of past financial difficulties on his credit file which ought to have 
been considered throughout the account opening and at the point of credit limit increases.
The credit limit on Mr Bs account was increased in June 2019 from £600 to £1,850 which is 
an increase of over three times the original limit. I can also see that Mr B himself asked for a 
credit limit increase some six months before that date which Fluid declined. So, I think Fluid 
ought to have carefully considered this increase and considered that Mr B had made that 
earlier request. I can see that Mr B before the June 2019 increase had made cash 
withdrawals and, whilst making payments regularly these were relatively small. I can also 
see that Mr B had used a significant amount of the available credit limit. Im satisfied that 
there were additional clear warning signs available for Fluid, as on the face of it Mr B had a 
relatively significant income but was using Payday lending and using other credit card 
accounts.
I have not seen any evidence that Fluid spoke to Mr B before offering the credit limit 
increase or questioned him about his finances. I also cant see that Fluid considered Mr Bs 
other credit card accounts usage. So, Im satisfied that Fluid didnt carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on the June 2019 credit limit increase. Im also satisfied that if it had 
asked Mr B to see, for example, his bank account statements the reason for Mr Bs financial 
difficulties would have been clear and obvious. And I think it highly unlikely Fluid would have 
approved the increase in those circumstances.
I can see that Fluid has fairly accepted that the second credit limit increase was unaffordable 
but I have made clear that the same checks that would have shown that at the time also 
would have shown that the first credit limit increase was also unaffordable.
Putting things right
Fluid should refund interest and charges from the June 2019 credit limit increase and deduct 
that amount from the balance owed by Mr B. I think it unlikely any balance will be due to Mr 
B but if there is then Fluid should pay 8% simple interest on that award per annum until 
settlement. Mr Bs credit file should be updated to reflect this decision. I can see that a 
repayment plan has been set up which should be amended if necessary, to an interest free 
plan to take account of this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid 
Credit Card to refund interest and charges on Mr Bs account applied over the credit limit of 
£600 from June 2019 and arrange a suitable repayment plan. I also order it to remove any 
adverse information registered on Mr Bs credit file caused by the credit limit increases. And I 
order that 8% simple interest be added to any refund due to Mr B if applicable. If taxation is 
deducted from that award, then Mr B should be provided with an appropriate certificate of 
taxation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman