Complaint 
J complains that Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) made errors when dealing with a chargeback 
request on his credit card.
Background
Mr J used his credit card with Lloyds to book flights through a travel company. The flights 
were cancelled and the travel company said it would take four to five weeks to process a 
refund. Mr J was unhappy with this and decided to contact Lloyds to initiate a refund from 
the travel company under the chargeback process. Lloyds processed the chargeback and 
credited his credit card account. The travel company also refunded Mr Js credit card 
account around a month later. Lloyds then debited Mr Js credit card account to reflect he 
had been refunded twice. 
Mr J says he made several phone calls to try to establish what was happening to the refund 
and was given mixed messages and was incorrectly told by Lloyds he would be credited 
again. As a result of this confusion Mr J feels he has been let down by Lloyds and if he 
hadnt raised the issue of the credit to his account from the travel company, this would have 
gone unnoticed by Lloyds.
Lloyds admitted there had been some errors with their communication with Mr J and offered 
him £75 for any trouble and upset caused plus the cost of his calls. Lloyds say that debiting 
the credit card account was the correct action under the dispute process as he wasnt 
entitled to two refunds.
Mr J was unhappy with the compensation offered by Lloyds and referred the case to this 
service.
The investigator looked at the information available but didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. He 
felt that Lloyds were entitled to debit the funds originally credited to his credit card account 
following the refund from the travel company and that £75 plus cost of phone calls was fair 
and reasonable. 
Mr J was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for this to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I have come to the same view as the investigator and I will explain the 
reason for my decision.
DRN-1601119When looking at Mr Js complaint I have considered if Lloyds offer of compensation was fair 
and if Mr J was entitled to anything other than the compensation offered to him. 
I can understand the confusion and frustration this caused Mr J when he had received 
conflicting messages about his account being credited for the chargeback. The chargeback 
system allows Lloyds, like other banks, to request refunds for its customers for transactions 
in certain situations. In this case Lloyds provided a temporary credit to Mr Js account so he 
wasnt financially inconvenienced whilst the process took place. It is worth mentioning that 
there is no guarantee that refunds will be made and there is no obligation on the part of 
Lloyds to carry out his request under the scheme. 
What happened here is Lloyds temporarily credited Mr Js account in line with the 
chargeback process, the travel company challenged this, but Lloyds didnt debit Mr Js 
account as the merchant failed to provide enough documentation. At this point Lloyds in 
error told Mr J he would be credited again, when in fact they had already done this. I can see 
this would be confusing for Mr J and it would have been better if Lloyds had explained the 
chargeback process to Mr J at the outset, but I can't see evidence to support that they did, 
this would have made it much clearer to Mr J.  
As far as the transaction itself is concerned, Mr J says that he could have benefited from two 
refunds to his account if he had not had brought this to Lloyds attention, but I am satisfied 
that Lloyds acted correctly when debiting his account, knowing he had been refunded 
separately by the travel company. 
I understand that Mr J has made phone calls to Lloyds and this has taken up his time and 
there would be costs involved in making these calls. Lloyds have offered Mr J £75 in 
compensation for the inconvenience and said it would cover the cost of the calls if he can 
detail these to them. This is a fair offer in the circumstances as Mr J hasnt been financially 
disadvantaged as a result of the chargeback to his credit card account.  Mr J should contact 
Lloyds directly if he now wishes to accept this.
I know Mr J will be disappointed with my decision but It follows I wont be asking Lloyds to do 
anymore here.
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15July2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman