DRN-3948976
The complaint
Mr S is complaining National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt do enough affordability 
checks when he took out a loan. Hes also unhappy with the additional amount of interest it 
charged him after he was granted a six month payment deferral.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to all parties so I wont set them out in detail. In 
summary, in July 2019 Mr S took out a loan of £10,000 financed by NatWest which was to 
be repaid by 60 monthly repayments of around £250. The last repayment was scheduled to 
be made in July 2024. Mr S used this loan to pay off a previous NatWest loan and some 
other debts.
Mr S contacted NatWest again in May 2020 to say he was impacted by Covid-19 and asked 
for a payment deferral. NatWest granted a payment deferral for the next three months. In 
July 2020 NatWest gave Mr S the choice to either pay the deferred payments in full or 
extend the loan term to February 2025. Mr S chose to extend the loan term. NatWest also 
agreed to defer the next three monthly payments.
Mr S later complained to NatWest and raised two complaints:
1. NatWest had extended the loan term by nine months, but hed only had a six-month  
deferral. He also said he wasnt given a choice of whether to extend the loan or not after 
the second payment deferral came to an end  as he was given with the first deferral. He 
says this has caused a disproportionate interest charge and he says NatWest hasnt 
explained why it had increased by as much as it did.
2. He did a data subject access request to gather the personal information NatWest held 
about him regarding the loan in question. And he thinks this shows that NatWest didnt 
carry out adequate checks when he applied for the loan. He said he was asked to 
provide a lot of documentary evidence for the first loan he took out, but wasnt asked to 
provide anything for the loan application in question. So he doesnt think NatWest should 
have lent him the money.
NatWest didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint so he referred it to this service to review.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the following:
I acknowledge Mr S feels strongly about whats happened. Hes provided a lot of 
information and testimony in support of this. Ive read and considered everything Mr S has 
provided, however, in this decision Ive not commented on each and every point hes raised, 
but I assure Mr S I have considered everything. My decision focuses on what I consider to 
be the key points. Our rules entitle me to do this and it simply reflects the informal nature of 
this service.
I dont intend to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Application of the loan
Mr S doesnt think NatWest did enough checks to assess whether he could afford the 
monthly repayments. NatWest said that the checks it carried out suggested Mr S could 
afford the loan.
I should first set out that its not this services role to say whether a lender should lend 
money to a consumer or not  thats a matter of commercial judgement of a lender. But, we 
look to see whether a lender has exercised that judgement fairly and reasonably and in 
particular whether it had sufficiently taken industry guidance into consideration. In 
considering whether a lender has acted fairly, well generally ask ourselves the following:
1. Did NatWest complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that 
Mr S would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way and, if so, did it make a 
fair lending decision bearing in mind the information gathered and what it knew about 
Mr Ss circumstances?
2. If reasonable and proportionate checks were not completed, would NatWest still have 
been fairly satisfied that Mr S would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
3. Did NatWest act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I think the starting point in assessing this complaint has to be looking at the guidelines the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) set out in its rules  the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). In this the FCA has said that the extent and scope of the creditworthiness  
assessment needs to be proportionate to the individual circumstances of each case.
So, when Mr S applied for the finance, NatWest was required to carry out proportionate 
checks to assess whether he could afford to keep up with the monthly repayments. In this 
decision, Ive looked at whether NatWest did enough to assess whether Mr S could afford to 
keep up with the monthly repayments.
Mr S doesnt think NatWest did sufficient checks because it didnt ask him for the same 
information he had to provide on his previous loan application. Its important to note there 
isnt a list of checks that a lender must carry out in each case and lenders can take a case 
by case analysis on the lending rights. 
In this case, Mr S applied for the loan online and was automatically accepted during the 
online application process. As part of the online application NatWest asked Mr S what his 
monthly income was  which he said was £2,075  and also asked what his monthly 
outgoings were  including his mortgage repayment, other finance repayments and an 
estimate of his general monthly expenses. Following this NatWest concluded that he had a 
disposable income of around £500. It also said there werent any adverse markers on Mr Ss 
credit file. So it said Mr S was automatically approved.
Mr S maintains this wasnt sufficient and said he had around £20,238 in other debts at the 
time he took out the loan. And he said that NatWest would have recognised his debts were 
increasing when he took out the loan.
Ive thought about whether NatWest did carry out proportionate checks, but Im not  
persuaded it did. In this case, NatWest reviewed Mr Ss credit file which didnt reveal any 
adverse markers  although I do acknowledge his comment around the level of debt he had 
at the time. It carried out an income and expenditure and Im not persuaded there was 
anything from the information Mr S provided that would alert NatWest that this wasnt a fair 
reflection of Mr Ss financial situation at the time. 
Mr S says that NatWest based its assessment on incorrect information and he believes NatWest should have verified the information he provided. As I said above, Mr S applied for 
the loan online and he provided the information himself. Lenders are not required to verify  
each and every piece of information a consumer provides as part of a finance application 
its required to carry out proportionate checks. And I think it would be disproportionate for a 
lender to have to request proof of income and bank statements on every application.
As a starting point, the onus is upon the applicant to provide an honest and accurate 
reflection of the financial situation when applying for a loan, based on the questions the 
lender asks. But I would expect a lender to consider whether the information an applicant 
provides is reasonable and plausible based on the information it already knows. In this case, 
I dont think it was unreasonable for NatWest to conclude that the information Mr S gave 
wasnt a fair and reasonable reflection of his income and expenditure. So I dont think it 
needed to request proof of income or bank statements. I cant hold NatWest responsible if 
the information Mr S gave wasnt accurate.
However, the credit file search would have also revealed that Mr S had a sizeable amount of 
existing debts at the time  including owing around £7,000 over four separate credit cards. 
He also had other loan commitments  two loans with a combined balance of around £7,300. 
Mr S says that he had also borrowed £5,000 off of an acquaintance, but NatWest wouldnt 
reasonably be aware of that as it wouldnt appear on a credit search. But it should have been 
aware that he had around £14,000 of existing debt at the time of the application. NatWest 
has advised that Mr S said the purpose of the loan was other. I dont think there wasnt 
anything to show from the information Mr S gave as part of his application that he intended 
to use the loan to repay the existing debts. And I think NatWest should have been conscious 
that Mr S would at some point have to repay the credit card debt back in full which may have 
had an impact on his ability to maintain his monthly repayments.
Given this, Im not persuaded that the information NatWest had at the time was sufficient for 
it to be reasonably satisfied that the level of debt Mr S had would have been sustainable. So 
I would have expected it to have made further enquiries  in particular to understand Mr Ss 
intentions for the money and to ascertain whether he intended to use the money to pay off 
his other debts. However, Im conscious from reviewing Mr Ss credit file that he did use a 
significant proportion to pay off two of the credit cards and other loan commitments. So, I 
think, had NatWest asked further questions, it would have ascertained that Mr S did intend to 
use the money to clear some of his other debts  which would also have reduced his 
monthly expenses in not having to repay these debts. So I think it would have still fairly 
provided the loan had it carried out sufficient checks.
Overall, Im not persuaded Ive seen enough for me to say that it was unreasonable for 
NatWest to lend the money it did.
Supporting Mr S through Covid-19
Mr S is essentially unhappy that NatWest extended his loan term by nine months, despite 
only having a six-month payment deferral. In particular, he doesnt think NatWest made it 
clear how it would restructure the loan to enable him to settle the deferred payments. He has 
queried how NatWest calculated the interest charged and why the loan was extended for 
more than the length of the payment deferral.
I can understand Mr Ss frustration and upset here, but I need to consider two things here:
1. Has NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in restructuring the loan and with what its 
charged Mr S for the deferred payments; and
2. Did NatWest give Mr S enough information to enable him to make an informed choice 
about whether to undertake the payment deferral and subsequently vary the term of the contract to extend its term. If not, has Mr S lost out as a result?
The FCA issued guidance to lenders around how it would expect them to treat consumers 
who were in financial difficulties owing to the impact of Covid-19. And one of the 
recommendations was that lenders should consider giving consumers a payment deferral 
(for up to six months).
Owing to Covid-19, Mr S says his monthly income was reduced so he contacted NatWest for 
support. NatWest initially agreed a three-month payment deferral. In July 2020, Mr S 
contacted NatWest again to say he was still in difficulties and he was granted a further three 
month deferral.
As I said, Mr S doesnt think its fair that NatWest extended his loan by nine months, given 
he only deferred six payments. However I dont think NatWest acted unreasonably here. Its 
important to note that, while the FCA said lenders should consider giving payment deferrals, 
they didnt say that interest had to be frozen during that time. NatWest has explained that it 
charges interest on the capital balance of the loan on a daily basis and this isnt unusual. 
NatWest continued to charge interest during the deferral period, which it was entitled to do. 
So the amount payable increased during that time, which meant Mr S needed to pay back 
more than the six monthly payments he deferred. Given this, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for it to extend the loan term by more than six months. Im also satisfied that 
the interest its charged is fair and in line with the terms of the contract.
Ive now thought about whether NatWest gave Mr S clear and sufficient information about 
the payment deferral to make an informed choice. I can see that it wrote to Mr S in July 2020 
setting out his options and it said he could do the following: 
1. Make a lump sum payment of the total amount he deferred - £758.04; or
2. Extend the loan term. It explained that Mr S would make the same monthly payments as 
he did before and the loan would be extended to February 2025.
It asked Mr S to sign to confirm what option he would like to take and Mr S chose to extend 
the loan term. I think NatWest reasonably explained his options here and it was clear to Mr S 
when the new loan term would run to. I recognise it didnt specifically say that this would 
result in a seven month extension of the loan term, but it did say what date the loan would 
run to and I think Mr S would have been able to reasonably understand what was going to 
happen. But, even if I think it should have made things clearer, Im not persuaded Mr S 
would have acted differently as the only other option was to pay the payment deferral in full. 
And I dont think he wanted to do that.
However, I havent seen anything to show that NatWest explained this to Mr S again in 
November 2020. NatWest says it would have sent the same illustration, but it hasnt been 
able to show this. So Im not persuaded it did give Mr S sufficient information at the end of 
the payment deferral.
So I now need to think about whether hes lost out as a result. I dont think he has and Ill 
explain why. Essentially, at the end of the payment deferral, Mr S would have had the same 
options as above  either pay the total amount hed deferred in full (which I think would have 
been around £1,600) or agree to the loan extension that he was given.
Im not persuaded Mr S would have made a different decision to the one hed made a few 
months earlier. In thinking about this, Im also conscious that Mr S owed nearly £10,000 on 
his credit cards at the same time. Im not persuaded Mr S would have been in a position to, 
or wanted to, pay the full amount of deferred payments in November 2020. So, even if NatWest made everything as clear as it should have done, I think its most likely Mr S would 
have still chosen to extend the term of the loan. It follows, therefore, that I dont think hes 
lost out financially because of anything NatWest may have done wrong.
I recognise Mr S has suffered some distress and inconvenience as a result of whats 
happened, although I think a significant majority of this is down to the fact he doesnt agree 
with the way NatWest has restructured his loan following the payment deferral. And, as I 
said, I dont think it acted unfairly in this regard. That said, I do think it could have been 
clearer  firstly in November 2020 in explaining how the loan would be extended, but then 
also in the way it explained how the interest was calculated. NatWest has accepted that, but 
I can also see its already paid £350 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its 
caused. I think this is more than fair compensation, so I dont think NatWest needs to pay 
anything further.
Mr S didnt accept my provisional decision and provided a detailed response. But, in a brief 
summary, he raised the following points:
Supporting him through Covid-19
He said he only agreed to the loan extension after the payment deferral was already put 
in place.
He assumed the deferred payments would just be added to the end of the loan term.
He maintains NatWest has made an error in the way its calculated the restructuring of 
the loan.
He reiterated that NatWest didnt tell him it was going to extend the loan term by an 
additional nine months for a six month payment deferral.
He disputes he hasnt suffered a financial loss as he says hes incurred an additional 
£1,500 in interest charges. He said, had he been presented with an accurate portrayal of 
what would happen to the loan term, he would have paid off the arrears instead of a 
payment he made to his credit card. Furthermore, he set out that he got another job in 
November 2020 so had additional means with which to pay the arrears.
Application of the loan
He believes the loan term, total interest payable and the monthly cost of the loan should 
have prompted NatWest to complete more comprehensive checks to obtain an accurate 
reflection of his financial situation.
He said NatWest was aware that it would be increasing his total level of debt to over 
£15,000.
He said he had a previous similar case which was upheld in the grounds that the lender 
should have done further checks.
He says NatWest should have been aware of certain things from the activity on his 
account  such as his salary had decreased, his rent payments had gone up and he had 
a low credit score.
He disagreed he had adverse markers as he said hed exceeded his credit limit on his 
credit cards a number of times in the preceding months and had missed payments to a 
previous loan provider.
He disagreed that NatWest shouldnt have been aware that the information hed provided 
wasnt accurate. And he thought I was placing too much onus on him to provide accurate 
information without taking into consideration NatWests responsibilities as a lender.
He disagreed that it was his intention to consolidate his loans. 
He maintains that NatWest didnt carry out sufficient affordability checks and, had it done 
so, it would have identified that it wasnt suitable to approve further lending as he thinks it 
was evident that he was consistently borrowing to meet repayments and using credit to meet living costs.
NatWest responded to say it didnt have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As before, Im aware Ive summarised everything Mr S has said in considerably less detail 
than hes provided. This doesnt mean I havent read what hes said  I assure Mr S Ive read 
and considered in depth everything hes provided in response to my provisional decision. 
However, Im not persuaded hes provided anything materially different to what he provided 
before. I shall, however, make the following final comments.
Supporting him through Covid-19
I acknowledge Mr S doesnt believe NatWest calculated the charges correctly. But this is 
an automated computer calculated process. Ive reviewed his statement of account and 
looked at the way NatWest has charged the additional interest and Im satisfied it has 
calculated this fairly. I appreciate Mr S thinks the amount he had to pay in interest is 
unfair, but Ive explained why I think it was fair for NatWest to charge what it did. And 
Mr S hasnt given me anything new to consider regarding this.
I also appreciate Mr S had assumed that the deferred payments would be added to the 
end of the loan term. But I explained in my provisional decision that I think Mr S would 
have been able to reasonably understand what was going to happen. But, even if I think 
it should have made things clearer, Im not persuaded he would have acted differently as 
the only other option was to pay the payment deferral in full. And, while I note Mr Ss 
comments regarding this, I still dont think he wanted to do that. Mr S says he wouldnt 
have paid money towards his credit card. But Im conscious the rate of interest on the 
credit card would have been higher than the loan. So, if he would have done that, I dont 
think I can reasonably say he would have been better off.
I note Mr S says he had recently got another job, so would have had an increased 
income. But, as I also said in my provisional decision, Im also conscious that Mr S owed 
nearly £10,000 on his credit cards at the same time. So I still dont think he would have 
made a different decision had NatWest made everything clearer.
Application of the loan
Im not persuaded that Mr S has given me anything new that he hasnt raised before, and Im 
satisfied that my provisional decision sets out why I dont think NatWest would have acted 
differently had it done proportionate checks. 
I note Mr S has said that there were adverse markers on his credit file  namely that hed 
exceeded his credit limit on credit cards a number of times and had missed payments to a 
previous loan provider. But the credit file he provided hasnt recorded anything adverse 
regarding this. So I dont think I can reasonably say it was unfair NatWest provided the loan, 
despite these issues. Im also not persuaded that the information he provided about his 
account activity was sufficient to notify NatWest that the information hed provided wasnt 
accurate.
Ultimately, as I set out in my provisional decision, lenders arent required to check 
individuals bank statements and ask for proof of income in every case  checks need to be 
proportionate. In this case, Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for NatWest to not ask 
Mr S for this in the specific circumstances of this case.I recognise Mr S feels strongly that NatWest shouldnt have provided him with the loan and I 
have read and considered everything hes provided. But hes not provided me with anything 
further to make me conclude that the outcome I reached in my provisional decision was 
unreasonable. And I dont have any further comments to make in this respect.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman