DRN-4391661
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the value of her self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and said PSG 
SIPP Limited (PSG) gave her incorrect information that she relied on and then lost out.
What happened
Mrs D said that the value of her SIPP was around £224,000 in August 2021. She said she 
was led to believe that the value would remain similar but when she actually encashed the 
value was only around £190,000. When she realised the value would be around £34,000 
less she tried to stop the encashment but was told it was too late. She said the 
communication with PSG was poor and they didnt return calls as they said they would. She 
felt she should have been given a final settlement amount before the SIPP was cashed in.
She was not asked to countersign anything before giving final go ahead. In the previous year 
she took 25% of her SIPP she was given a value before she proceeded. She had no need to 
cash in at that time and could have waited for the markets to recover.
PSG said that Mrs Ds SIPP was operated by a different administrator when she took her 
Pension Commencement Lump Sum (PCLS) in 2021. It took over the business from the 
previous provider in November 2021, so could not comment on the processes of the 
previous administrator. On 13 May 2022 Mrs Ds partner called and asked about the value 
and whether it would have reduced since the PCLS was made in 2021. Its adviser said the 
value should be pretty similar it all depended on the funds and how much theyve sold down 
for, but shouldnt be much more or less than what weve previously stated anyway. PSG 
agreed that the information provided during the process was incorrect in particular that the 
value would not be substantially different to that in August 2021. It also accepted it failed to 
provide a withdrawal value when requested on 13 May 2022. But this did not cause the fall in 
value and the request was after the instruction to encash had been issued. However had it 
been contacted before June 2022 it could have held the cash in the SIPP rather than paid it 
out. It offered £750 for the stress and inconvenience caused by not doing what it said it 
would.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision. In summary I said the following.
In order to make an award for financial loss against PSG I needed to conclude that it had 
done something wrong and that this caused financial loss.
Miss D was living abroad and had been doing so for some years. She said she took out the 
PSG SIPP in February 2014. The advice was not provided by PSG. Her IFA advised her to 
take 25% as a lump sum, tax free in 2021 and the remainder in 2022, as the policy matured 
after 8 years, and at that time the transaction would be penalty free.
Mrs D said she didnt realise how poor the market was when she took the remainder of the 
SIPP in 2022. She said she followed what she was told by the IFA. She said she didnt know 
enough about investments to question the advice. She was aware of problems due to the 
war in Ukraine and this was why her husband contacted PSG to request a valuation and she 
said was told it wouldnt be affected to any great extent and therefore proceeded to cash in 
the remainder of the SIPP. She said she had signed up for another year of work for 2023/24 
which showed she didnt need to cash in the SIPP when the market was poor.
In short Mrs D is saying that in effect she relied on the assurance that the value would not 
have been greatly different to that in 2021 and that but for PSGs assurance she would not 
have cashed in the policy.
I considered the timeline of events (set out below). I noted that this was not a full timeline as 
I knew Mrs D said she made many calls and sent me call logs to show these.
The timeline instead showed the key dates.
In the light of the timeline I didnt think Mrs D relied on what PSG said about the value, for 
the following reasons:-
Sunday 13 March 2022 PSG said an initial request to withdraw funds was submitted to it by 
Mrs D. It provided the documentation needed.
Sunday 20 March 2022 - the benefit payment form was signed by Mrs D on 20 March 2022. 
This indicated that she wanted to exhaust the SIPP  which the notes say means to (take 
remaining tax-free cash and close the SIPP  this may have tax implications)
The form shows she requested a lump sum (subject to a 55% tax charge).
She completed a risk questionnaire and signed it on 20 March 2022. This said at point 2.1
There are no guarantees attached to taking benefits via Flexi-Access Drawdown 
because funds are taken directly from your pension fund and the amount of benefit 
paid to you, whether a lump sum and/or an income, is determined by the value of 
your pension fund at that moment in time.
Do you understand that there was no guarantee attaching to the amount of income or 
lump sum paid via Flexi-Access Drawdown?  Mrs D has ticked yes in response to 
this question.
Wednesday 30 March 2022, PSG said it received the forms which were sent back to it on 28 
March 2022.
Friday 1 April 2022 additional documentation was returned to PSG
Thursday 5 May 2022 PSG said the request to withdraw funds was issued to the investment 
provider. PSG said this instruction could not be withdrawn once issued.
Friday 13 May 2022 Mrs Ds partner called to ask about the delay in encashment and during 
the call asked for a valuation and whether it would have reduced since the PCLS was made 
in 2021. The PSG adviser said the value should be pretty similar it all depended on the 
funds and how much theyve sold down for, but shouldnt be much more or less than what 
weve previously stated anyway.
Friday 13 May 2022  a statement from the investment provider showed one investment was 
sold.
Tuesday 17 May 2022 a statement from the investment provider showed that 3 further sales were completed and around £190,700 paid out as a full surrender.
Tuesday 17 May 2022 funds were received from the investment provider. The value 
received was around £190,700.
Tuesday 31 May 2022 (at 16.38) PSG said it wrote to confirm the amount of the income 
payment of around £186,800 would be paid. Its pay roll run would be sent on 5 June 2022 
but due to the bank holiday the money may arrive sooner.
Tuesday 31 May 2022 (at 18.22) Mrs D emailed PSG to say she was expecting around 
£223,000 and could it explain the shortfall.
Tuesday 31 May 2022 (at 19.22) PSG replied that it received around £190,700 from the 
encashment and already had around £1,800 in the bank account. It still had around £2,300 
of tax-free cash to pay and this would be paid separately. It said it had to leave a balance in 
her SIPP account as it still held a suspended fund. Once the suspended fund was removed 
the remaining amount can be paid to her at a later date.
Tuesday 31 May 2022 (at 19.27) Mrs G asked for a breakdown as the amount was below 
her expectations. She asked if any tax had been deducted.
Wednesday 1 June 2022 Mrs D said the payment arrived in her bank account and provided 
a copy bank statement to show this.
Saturday 4 June 2022 PSG said the withdrawal payment from the SIPP (but not the 
encashment) could have been stopped at any point up to 4 June 2022. After that date a 
report would have been made to HMRC.
Sunday 5 June 2022 (at 17.15) Mrs D emailed to question the valuation. She said that when 
she took 25% in 2021 she got £73,000 which meant the remainder was worth around 
£219,000. She asked why there was now only £193,000 in the SIPP at drawdown. She 
asked for a valuation and details of the bank account too and for them to explain the 
shortfall. She referred to the call on 13 May and said her husband was told the current poor 
market would not affect the value of the SIPP too much because it was averaged out over a 
few years.
Tuesday 7 June 2022 at 18.49 Mrs D chased a reply.
Wednesday 8 June 2022 (at 19.47) PSG emailed to say the adviser was out of office and it 
had already supplied information.
Thursday 9 June 2022 (at 14.09) Mrs D asked when the adviser would be back and said she 
needed to see the SIPP valuation and obtain a tax certificate.
Tuesday 14 June 2022 Mrs D called again to discuss the drop in value.
Saturday 25 June 2022 (at 20.17) Mrs D chased for an explanation of the shortfall.
Sunday 26 June 2022 (at 22.51) PSG replied that it was awaiting a reply from the investment 
provider.
Monday 27 June 2022 PSG said the decrease was due to the decrease in market value of 
the underlying assets at the point of sale.
27 June 2022 (at 09.13) Mrs D asked to be copied into further correspondence with the investment provider.
Based on this timeline it seemed that Mrs D initiated the request to encash in March 2022. 
There was no dispute that unlike the situation in 2021, no valuation was provided before the 
request for encashment. Mrs D could not therefore have been relying on valuation 
information at the time she sent in the papers to start the process of encashment. She 
signed all the necessary papers to instruct PSG to go ahead in March 2022. So I thought 
she had signed all that was needed and PSG was following her instructions.
When I asked Mrs D about the circumstances at that time, she said she was locked into the 
SIPP for 8 years until 2022. She said she wanted to take money out of the SIPP as soon as 
she could after the 8 years expired. She had taken advice back in 2014, and was advised to 
take 25% in 2021, (which was possible without an early redemption penalty) and the 
remainder in 2022 after the 8-year period elapsed.
Based on what she said and the absence of any valuation or request for one, in March 2022, 
it seems to me that she was following through the advice from the IFA. Mrs D said she asked 
repeatedly for a valuation before the drawdown request was put in. But notwithstanding the 
absence of a valuation she still went ahead. Had she known she said she would have waited 
as she didnt need the money at the time. But I dont agree. I say that because she didnt 
wait for a valuation before submitting the papers, so was not relying on valuation information 
when she made her decision to encash and withdraw.
PSG agrees that the statement that the value would not be substantially different to that in 
August 2021 was not correct though it did say it depended on the value encashed. It also 
accepted it failed to provide a withdrawal value when requested on 13 May 2022 as it was 
not provided until after the surrender took place. But by the time Mrs Ds partner called on 13 
May to enquire about progress, the request to encash had already been submitted (on 5 
May 2022) and it was too late to stop the encashment.
So while the PSG adviser was wrong to say on 13 May 2022, that the value shouldnt be 
much different, Mrs D didnt rely on that statement in deciding to encash. I said that because 
the statement was made after she gave the instruction to encash in March 2022 and further 
it was after the point at which that encashment could have been stopped (5 May 2022).
So in summary I didnt think Mrs D relied on information in deciding to encash and withdraw 
so I couldnt make any direction against PSG for the fall in value.
Delay in encashment
In preparing a timeline of events I noted that it took from 1 April 2022 until 5 May for PSG to 
act on Mrs Ds instructions to encash her SIPP. While this was not raised as part of the 
original complaint by Mrs D, this service has wide powers to make enquiries.
I asked PSG if there was a reason for this delay but it said it could not find a reason. It said 
records showed the documentation had been reviewed and signed by their team shortly after 
its receipt but was not submitted until 5 May 2022.
It said requests sent as part of a surrender process would take 3 to 5 working days 
depending on all the information being received from the outset. It said it received all the 
documentation on 1 April 2022 so the instructions should have been sent no later than 6 
April 2022.
So it seemed to me that PSG caused a delay from 6 April to 5 May 2022. I could therefore 
consider an award for any financial loss caused by that delay.The purpose of an award for financial loss was to put Mrs D back in the position she would 
have been in but for the delay.
I thought she may have suffered loss in two ways:-
1. She may have received a higher payment had the value of her investments been higher at 
the date they should have been encashed compared to when they were encashed on 13 and 
17 May 2022 and
2. She received her encashed payment later than she should have done.
Taking each of these in turn:-
1. Following receipt of all the papers on 1 April 2022 PSG would have submitted the request 
to encash to the investment provider on 6 April 2022.
Based on what actually happened it took from 5 May to 13 May ( 6 working days) to encash 
one investment and from 5 May to 17 May  (8 working days) to encash the remainder of the 
investments.
I therefore proposed that PSG should complete a comparison of the amount that Mrs D 
would have realised had the instruction been issued on 6 April and the encashments had 
been processed at the prices prevailing on:-
14 April 2022 (in respect of one investment listed as Guinness Asset Management)
and
18 April 2002 (in respect of investments listed as Dominion Global Luxury  
Consumer, Dominion Global and Dominion Global Trends SICA V)
Any loss Mrs D has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of her 
investments within her pension on the dates above, and subtracting the total value actually 
realised on 13 May and 17 May 2022.
If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable.
If the answer is positive there is a loss and PSG should pay that amount together with 
interest at the rate of 8% per annum simple from 3 May 2022 (being the date on which I 
thought she would otherwise have received payment had the encashment gone ahead 
sooner  see my analysis in 2 below) to the date of payment pursuant to my final decision in 
this complaint.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Ms Ds pension plan. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs D as a lump sum. In that case I would typically make an 
adjustment for a notional reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. However I note that due to Mrs Ds overseas residence she was entitled to 
receive the payment from the pension scheme free of the 55% tax charge. I have not 
therefore made any adjustment for this.I also thought that Mrs D lost out in that she didnt receive the around £190,700 until 1 June 
2022. It took 19 working days from the encashment instruction being issued on 5 May until 
she was paid on 1 June 2022.
By comparison had the instruction been issued on 6 April 2022 (as PSG said it should have 
been), 19 working days later would have been 3 May 2022. So I thought Mrs D missed out 
on the use of the around £190,700 she was paid between 3 May 2022 and 1 June 2022. 
This is 29 calendar days. This service would award interest at the rate of 8% per annum 
simple for being deprived of use of her money. I therefore proposed that PSG should pay 
Mrs D:-
(a) interest at the rate of 8% per annum simple on the amount it paid into her bank account 
on 1 June 2022 (which was around £190,700) for the 29 days of delay
and
(b) interest on the amount calculated under (a) above at the rate of 8% per annum simple 
from 1 June 2022 to the date of payment pursuant to my final decision in this complaint.
Distress and inconvenience
As I have concluded that PSG made a mistake I could consider an award for distress and 
inconvenience. Such an award was to reflect the impact on Mrs D not to punish PSG and 
nor was it to compensate for financial loss which I have considered above.
I did understand Mrs Ds frustrations about the absence of a valuation but I concluded that 
this would not have made a difference. Until I considered this complaint I did not think Mrs D 
was aware that she had reason to complain about the delay in payment so I didnt think this 
had caused her distress and inconvenience. I noted however that PSG had offered to pay 
£750. Given what I had said I thought this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and 
I didnt propose to increase that further.
Before I issued my final decision I asked the parties to comment further. I also asked PSG to 
comment on my proposed calculations.
I proposed to uphold this complaint in part.
I proposed to direct that PSG SIPP Limited should pay Mrs D the amounts (if any) for 
financial loss, calculated as set out above and £750 for distress and inconvenience.
PSG didnt respond further.
Mrs D responded by making a telephone call with the investigator. I have listened to this in 
full. Mrs D said she would not have taken the money had she known about the fall in value. 
She couldnt get a valuation even though she rang many times. The communication was 
very poor. She didnt plan that they would do anything until the valuation arrived. It didnt 
cross her mind that PSG would not send a valuation. She thought she could stop the 
instruction before it went through once the valuation arrived. 
Further PSG didnt seem worried about the impact of the war because the SIPP had been in 
place for quite some time. They didnt need the money. She was guided by the PSG person 
more than anything. Had she known differently she would have stopped it as she didnt need 
the money at that point in time. 
The £750 was not enough when she had lost £30,000. She felt this could be more generous. She wanted to reinstate the investigators decision and reinvest and wait for the market to 
recover. The tax thing didnt matter because they lived overseas. She didnt think this 
decision was very fair and she felt unfairly treated
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered what Mrs D said and I asked PSG to check again to make sure it did not 
have a record of a request for a valuation at an earlier date. It said it had reviewed its 
records again and couldnt see a value had been requested during any conversation prior to 
that made in May 2022, nor could it find any email request. It may be that Mrs D had called 
but had not been answered. 
I also asked it to comment on whether there would be a loss due to the delay. It said that 
Our dealers endeavour to process instructions on the day of receipt but as that is not always 
possible they have an overall 48 hour processing window. However, when the instruction is 
via a full policy surrender the dealers are dependent on the time it takes our claims people to 
vet the request first. In this case the surrender form was received on 5th May, the request 
was vetted on 9th May and deals were placed on 10th May, an overall 3 working day 
turnaround time.
It said that had the request to surrender the bond been submitted to them on 06 April 2022, 
the earliest they would have processed the request would have been 07 April 2022, given 
the three working day potential processing timeframe they confirmed the bond would have 
settled to a total value of £198,270.05, a difference of £5,583.26 from what Mrs DSouzas 
bond settled for in May 2022 (£192,686.79). 
This seemed reasonable to me and within industry guidance for timescales. 
PSG reviewed my proposed final direction (set out below) and had not further comments to 
add.
Putting things right
In the light of what has been said I have not changed my mind and remain of the view that 
PSG should pay Mrs D the amounts for financial loss, calculated as set out below and £750 
for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs D has closed her SIPP account with PSG and taken all the tax-free cash associated with 
it. The payment due to the delay will therefore need to be paid directly to Mrs Ds UK bank 
account and not via the SIPP account. This should typically be made after making a notional 
reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. As Mrs D was 
not resident in the UK for tax purposes at the time of the original payment the notional 
reduction should be nil. If PSG believes that it should deduct tax from the payment it 
should..,
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part.
I direct that PSG SIPP Limited should, within 30 days of this service notifying it that Mrs D 
has accepted this decision make the following payments:-1. £750 for distress and inconvenience (but for the avoidance of doubt it can deduct 
from the £750 any amount it has already made as a payment for distress and 
inconvenience in relation to this complaint.), and 
2. Interest at the rate of 8% per annum simple on the amount it paid into Mrs Ds bank 
account on 1 June 2022 (which was around £190,700) for the 29 days of delay, and.
3. Interest on the amount of interest calculated under (2) above at the rate of 8% per 
annum simple from 1 June 2022 to the date of actual payment pursuant to this 
complaint, and .
4. £5,583.26 for the loss due to the delay, and 
5. Interest on the amount calculated under (4) above at the rate of 8% per annum 
simple from 3 May 2022 to the date of payment pursuant to my final decision in this 
complaint.
If PSG believes it is required to deduct income tax from any interest payment it should 
provide Mrs D with a certificate confirming the amount deducted in a form suitable for 
presentation to HMRC.
As a payment into Mrs D pension isnt possible the amounts under 2,3,4 and 5 above  
should be paid directly to Mrs D as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. PSG shall provide such reasonable 
information as Mr D may require to reclaim an overpaid tax from HMRC.
On request by Mrs D, PSG should provide details of its calculations to Mrs D in an easily 
readable and understandable form.
Mrs D shall promptly provide PSG with details of a UK bank account to receive payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman