DRN-3995031
The complaint
The estate of the late Mrs T complains about the way Funding Circle Ltd has dealt with the 
administration of gaining access to the funds held in Mrs Ts Peer-to-Peer (P2P) lending 
account following her passing. 
What happened
Mrs T held two P2P lending accounts on Funding Circles platform. In March 2022 her 
executors informed Funding Circle of her passing. Probate was granted in April 2022 and the 
available cash funds from the account were released to the estate in following this. But there 
remained invested funds that still needed to be passed to the estate. 
In June 2022, the executors complained to Funding Circle after access to the accounts was 
withdrawn. They raised concerns about not being given full online access to the accounts to 
allow for the withdrawal of available funds. They said Funding Circles handling of the 
situation had caused them a considerable amount of stress and anxiety. 
Funding Circle responded to the complaint. It didnt uphold it. In summary it said:
It has an obligation to ensure that it protects each individual investors account and 
therefore cannot change the ownership of the account.
Repayments from borrowers will accumulate on the accounts and as funds become 
available these can be withdrawn to the nominated bank account. There is no way to 
speed up the process of liquidating the account. 
As it cannot provide access directly to the account, Funding Circle will provide all the 
necessary details to upon request such as periodic updates, relevant tax statements 
and related account information. 
The executors didnt accept these findings and referred the complaint to this service for 
independent review. 
After the complaint was referred to this service, Funding Circle sent correspondence 
addressed to the late Mrs T. The executors raised further concerns about this. Funding 
Circle apologised for any distress regarding the communication that had been released in 
error. It made an offer of £100 to the executors to recognise the impact of this error. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. As part of his initial investigation, he 
received confirmation that Funding Circle was prepared to increase the offer of 
compensation it made to £150 for the erroneous communication it sent. He then went on to 
assess the complaint.  He didnt find that Funding Circle had done anything wrong in respect 
of how the account was being administered following Mrs Ts passing. In summary he said:
Funding Circle have applied their terms and conditions fairly  referencing the section 
relating to the death of an investor. He didnt agree that taking instructions meant 
the personal representatives will be able to continue to run the account in the same 
way as the original investor or take over the original investors account. 
He was satisfied that Funding Circle has been taking instructions from the executors 
as required. The method Funding Circle has put in place to accept a representatives 
instructions is fit for purpose (especially in light of the intended role of an executor), 
and it removes the possibility of opening itself up to any regulatory or legal issues in 
the future by either transferring the accounts or allowing third party access to a 
deceased consumer account.
We cant consider compensation for distress to the executors as they themselves 
dont have the required customer relationship with Funding Circle in respect of Mrs 
Ts accounts. 
The estate didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and asked for decision to be made 
by an ombudsman. In summary they said:
The outstanding dispute is about online access to Mrs Ts two accounts by the 
executors.
Funding Circles terms and conditions are badly worded, so can be read in many 
ways. Reliance should therefore be in accordance with the FCA principles. 
They are Mrs Ts personal representatives. That doesnt make them customers, but it 
does mean that if theyre treated differently to Mrs T, then theyre being prevented 
from properly representing her.
Immediate access to all the information for the accounts isnt being provided and 
funds arent able to be withdrawn at the estates convenience. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint concerns how Funding Circle has dealt with requests for access to 
P2P lending accounts from the executors of the late Mrs Ts estate. 
Firstly, Ive looked at what Funding Circles terms and conditions say about deceased 
customer accounts. The relevant section says:
33. Investor death
33.1 If you die, we will close your Funding Circle ISA and the tax benefits will cease on 
your death. Any interest received after your death will be paid into a Classic Account and 
will not be exempt from income or other taxes from the date of your death.
33.2 Your personal representatives must provide us with proof of your death and of their 
appointment, after which we will act in accordance with their instructions.
33.3 In the circumstances set out in the ISA Regulations, your surviving spouse or civil 
partner may be entitled to an additional ISA allowance equal to the value of your Funding 
Circle ISA as at the date of your death.
From this Im satisfied that when a customer dies, Funding Circle is required to act on 
instruction from the deceased personal representatives to allow them to fulfil the legal 
requirements to pass on the assets of the estate to the beneficiaries. What the terms dont 
cover is the situation where the personal representatives request to be given full access to 
the accounts or have them transferred into their name  which is what happened with Mrs 
Ts accounts. 
Ive considered the role of the estate and executors in the scenario. The executors who bring 
this complaint on behalf of Mr Ts estate are the personal representative that are legally responsible for the estates assets. In the context of this complaint the assets are the funds 
held in P2P loan agreements. The nature of this type of asset is that it isnt immediately 
accessible in the same way as something like cash in a bank account would be. So naturally 
it is going to take longer for the estate to be able to receive the funds and for the executors 
complete their legal responsibilities to distribute the assets.
While I can understand why the executors would have preferred to be given full access to 
the account, I dont think this is something that Funding Circle was required to do. I also 
dont think the fact it hasnt agree to do this, means it has failed to act in accordance with 
instructions of the estate  as per the terms and conditions. 
Ive looked at how Funding Circle dealt with the requests from the executors and Im 
satisfied it did act in a way that allowed the executors to fulfil their obligations. Funding Circle 
paid the cash balances to the estate when it initially became aware of Mrs Ts death. It also 
explained that it will continue to recover payments and interest earned on the outstanding 
loans up until the point they are liquidated and we will conduct periodic checks on the 
account to see if there are any late loans or recoveries that have been paid back, and notify 
the executor when enough has accrued to withdraw out again. As explained above, due to 
the nature of this type of investment the passing on of funds can take time, so the approach 
set out seems reasonable. I havent seen that Funding Circle has prevented funds being 
released to the estate. 
Funding Circle also confirmed that while it couldnt give full access to the accounts, if the 
executors have any requests regarding the accounts, they should let it know and it can 
provide any required information. I can see it provided statement data to the executors when 
this was requested. So again, Im satisfied that Funding Circle was acting in a way that  
allowed the executors to fulfil their responsibilities on behalf of the estate. Going forward 
Funding Circle does still need to provide updates as required by the estate  for example 
information in relation to the recovery of funds from non-performing loans.  
I note the comments raised by the executors about acting in line with FCA principles. The 
executors appear to accept they are not customers of Funding Circle in respect of Mrs Ts 
P2P accounts.  The funds held in the accounts were Mrs Ts, so in releasing them to her 
estate Funding Circle needs to ensure it provides adequate protection. While the executors 
dont agree with the process and approach taken, I havent found that this means Funding 
Circle has done something wrong or acted unfairly.  
I acknowledge that the executors have requested compensation for the distress they have 
personally suffered in dealing with the matter. I havent found Funding Circle at fault, but in 
any case, I cant award compensation for distress to the executors in their personal capacity. 
This is because they are not eligible complainants. Mrs T is the eligible complainant as the 
account holder, the executors act only as the legal representatives of the estate. I note that 
Funding Circle has agreed a payment for a communication error that happened after the 
original complaint was made. I understand this compensation has been accepted, so I wont 
comment further, and for the reasons explained, I cant consider or award compensation for 
any upset caused to the executors anyway. 
In summary, I have found that Funding Circle has acted fairly and reasonable in how it has 
administered the account following Mrs Ts passing. The nature of investments in P2P 
lending mean there is uncertainty when funds will be returned and the frequency of 
payments, especially where there are payment issues with a loan. While I can understand 
why the executors would like to have full access to the accounts and their desire to complete 
their responsibilities to the estate, I havent found that Funding Circle are at fault for not 
giving them the access they request. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs T 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman