DRN-3032586
The complaint
This complaint is about the compensation Santander UK Plc offered to pay Mrs L in respect 
of mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
When PPI was sold to Mrs L, Santander was trading as Abbey National. To keep things 
simple, I have referred mainly to Santander in this decision. However, I have also made 
reference to Abbey National where it was necessary to do so. To be clear, I am referring to
the same business whether I refer to Santander or Abbey National.
What happened
On or around 29 July 2019, Mrs L complained to Santander that it had mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to her alongside a mortgage. Santander initially accepted Mrs L 
had a PPI policy between 1992 and 1995, but it did not accept PPI was mis-sold.
Mrs L disagreed with that view. She sent evidence to Santander showing she had paid for 
PPI up to 1999, the year her mortgage was redeemed and transferred to another lender. 
Santander then agreed it had mis-sold PPI and it paid compensation from February 1992 
up to January 1999. Mrs L supplied further bank statements to Santander and it agreed to 
compensate her from April 1990 to January 1999. April 1990 was the earliest bank 
statement Mrs L provided to Santander.
Mrs L did not agree with Santanders decision to pay compensation to her from April 1990 
only. She said PPI had been arranged when she took out her mortgage on 19 September 
1986. She thought Santander should pay compensation from that date. She provided a letter 
dated 9 October 1986 confirming her mortgage account and making reference to an 
insurance schedule. A further letter from the insurer dated 27 September 1995 was also 
provided, which stated that the cover had been arranged at the same time as her mortgage.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought that what Mrs L said was right. He 
thought PPI was most likely arranged at the same time as the mortgage. He recommended 
Santander calculate compensation from 19 September 1986.
Santander didnt agree with that view. In summary, it said its PPI policies were standalone 
products and could have been taken at any point in the life of the mortgage, not necessarily 
at commencement. It was standard practice for double or treble premiums to be collected at 
the start of a PPI policy. It believed the payment Mrs L made in April 1990 of £43.44 to be a 
triple premium. The premium she paid in June 1990 was for £14.48  or one third of the 
amount paid in April 1990.
Santander acknowledged that the letter of 9 October 1986 indicated an insurance 
schedule was enclosed. But it said such insurance would most likely have been buildings 
or contents insurance, rather than PPI. It said a PPI schedule would not have been 
enclosed at that point because PPI was a separate product to the mortgage.
When the matter was passed to me for a final decision, I asked our adjudicator to confirm
with Mrs L that she had no other bank statements relating to the period from 1986. Mrs L
confirmed she did not.
I issued a provisional decision because I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I 
said: 
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs L, but as things stand, I dont intend to uphold the complaint. 
Ill explain why below.
As I said above, the parties agree that PPI was mis-sold, so I dont have to consider that 
point further. I am concerned with whether Santander has fairly compensated Mrs L for that 
mis-sale.
When was PPI sold?
The first thing for me to consider is when PPI came to be sold to Mrs L. There is very little 
documentary evidence before me. Thats not surprising given that the cover appears to 
have been sold at least 30 years ago. I wouldnt expect either party to keep such detailed 
records for that length of time.
In the absence of comprehensive documentation, I cant be certain as to what happened 
and when. So, I must apply the balance of probabilities. That means I have to look at what 
is most likely to have happened based upon the evidence before me. Ive also taken 
account of what this service knows about the way Santander sold PPI at the relevant time.
As I said above, when PPI was sold, Santander was trading as Abbey National. From what 
we know about Abbey National, it didnt start to sell PPI alongside its mortgage products 
until 5 May 1987. This was some months after Mrs L took her mortgage out. So Im afraid I 
cant agree with our adjudicator that the cover was sold at the same time as Mrs L applied 
for her mortgage.
Ive thought about the possibility of PPI being sold to Mrs L between 1987 and 1990 at the 
same time as she maybe re-mortgaged or switched rates. But I can see from her initial 
telephone call with our adjudicator that Mrs L was clear there had been no such changes to 
her mortgage during that time.
Ive also considered the aforementioned letter of 9 October 1986. I can see that it says an 
insurance schedule was enclosed with the correspondence. But it doesnt mention a PPI 
policy. I can see from the bank statements Mrs L provided to Santander that a premium of
£7.01 for an Abbey National insurance policy was debited from her bank account on the 
same day as her mortgage. As she paid for this policy on the same day as her mortgage, I 
think this is most likely the policy referred to in the October 1986 letter. This wasnt the PPI 
policy.
Mrs L also provided a further letter dated 27 September 1995 from Abbey National. That 
letter starts by saying When you arranged your mortgage with Abbey National, you made 
the important decision to protect your mortgage repayments. Mrs L believes this shows
PPI was taken out at the start of her mortgage. As Ive set out above, we now know that 
couldnt have been the case as PPI wasnt sold by this business in 1986.
In any event, this letter appears to have been part of a mailshot sent out to all PPI 
customers at that time informing them of a change to the policys terms and conditions. In 
particular, I note the salutation is Dear Customer(s). It does not appear to me that this 
letter was sent out to Mrs L personally after someone had taken account of when she took 
out the PPI policy.
With all of these things in mind, Im afraid the first available evidence we have of Mrs L 
paying for a PPI policy is her bank statement of April 1990. I agree with Santander that it is 
not uncommon for multiple premiums to be taken at the inception of a policy.I can see that Santander appears to have taken three premiums at once in February 1996, 
and it looks as though that payment was for premiums from December 1995 to February 
1996. But this appears to have occurred after Mrs L was invited to review her cover in 
September 1995. The premiums appear to have reduced, so it may be that Mrs L asked 
Abbey National to reduce her cover. The new and reduced premium appears to apply from 
early December 1995. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that a change in cover was 
the reason for the triple premium in April 1990.
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs L, but after taking account of the evidence before me, I 
provisionally find that its most likely that PPI started in April 1990 as set out on Mrs Ls bank 
statements.
Did Santander fairly calculate Mrs Ls compensation from April 1990?
In circumstances such as this where it is agreed that PPI was mis-sold, I would expect 
Santander to return Mrs L to the position she would have been in if PPI had never been 
sold to her.
To do that, Id expect Santander to calculate and repay the amount Mrs L paid each month 
for the PPI policy. And Id expect it to add simple interest to each payment from when Mrs 
L paid it until she got it back. The rate of simple interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 
then 8% a year from then on.
Ive seen the calculations Santander undertook from April 1990 until January 1999 and Im 
provisionally satisfied it has undertaken all the steps I would expect of it.
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Mrs L, but after giving very careful consideration 
to all of the information before me, I think Santander acted fairly in calculating 
compensation from April 1990 and the compensation offered to Mrs L was fair.
I asked the parties to provide me with any further information they wanted me to consider 
before I issued a final decision. Regrettably, I have not seen a response from Santander. 
Ive had the benefit of a response from Mrs L. Mrs L said she did not know from where we 
had obtained information that Santander did not sell PPI until 1987. She said she had 
provided evidence by way of correspondence sent to her that the cover had been sold to 
her when her mortgage started. She did not agree with what I said about the 
correspondence she provided initially being a mailshot, because it contained specific 
information about her policy. She also sent further correspondence from Abbey National, 
which she says showed PPI had been sold at the same time as the mortgage. One of those 
letters was signed by her branch manager. Mrs L says the manager would have known 
whether she had taken PPI out at the same time as her mortgage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken account of the additional information provided by Mrs L. Upon doing so, my 
view is that the additional documents she sent were not free text letters drafted after the 
author had taken account of her personal circumstances. Looking at the letter signed by the 
branch manager dated 21 January 1993, the salutation is Dear Insured Borrower. This 
appears to me to be a template letter in which information about the cost of Mrs Ls 
premiums and the dates from which those changes apply was added in to the template. I think it is most unlikely that the branch manager drafted this letter to Mrs L personally after 
reviewing the circumstances of her mortgage or when she took out the policy. 
My view is the same in respect of the other additional letters Mrs L sent. Whilst I 
acknowledge that some of the letters contained specific details of Mrs Ls policy, that 
information was effectively added to a template. It appears to me most likely that these 
letters were sent after a mail merge. I appreciate that the opening line in at least two of 
these letters was when you arranged your mortgage, but I cant reasonably say this was 
drafted after the author of the letter had checked Mrs Ls account to see when the PPI was 
taken out. 
I had said in my provisional decision that from what we know about Santander, it didnt sell 
PPI until 5 May 1987. The information Mrs L provided doesnt persuade that this date is 
incorrect.  So the policy couldnt have been sold when she took her mortgage out in 1986. 
That means the earliest evidence we have of Mrs L having a PPI policy is from her bank 
statements in April 1990 where she appears to have paid three premiums at once. As it is 
not uncommon for more than one premium to be taken at the start of a policy, the evidence 
before me suggests this is when Mrs L most likely took the cover out. 
On that basis, as Santander has already fairly calculated compensation from April 1990, I 
dont need to tell it to do anything more. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs L, but for the reasons above, I havent upheld her complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman