DRN-4210497
The complaint
Miss M complains about esure Insurance Limited (EIL) and their refusal to provide her with 
a refund of her policy premium, after her car was deemed a total loss following a road traffic 
accident.
Miss M has been represented by a representative, Mr D, during the complaint process. For 
ease of reference, I will refer to any comments made, or actions taken, by either Miss M or 
Mr D as Miss M throughout the decision.
What happened
In June 2022, Miss M took out a motor insurance policy, underwritten by EIL. Unfortunately, 
in late July, Miss M was involved in a road traffic accident. At the time of the accident, Miss 
M felt the third-party had admitted liability and so, she contacted EIL and asked them to 
process the claim on a non-fault basis, recovering their costs from the third-party insurer 
(TPI).
Miss Ms car was inspected and, due to the extent of the damage, was deemed a total loss. 
So, EIL paid Miss M the value of her car. And they paused Miss Ms insurance policy, to 
allow her time to purchase a new car and add it onto the same policy she already held.
But Miss M bought another car that came with insurance. So, she didnt add her new car to 
the existing policy she held with EIL. Because of this, her policy was cancelled. But Miss M 
was unhappy that EIL didnt provide her with a pro-rata refund for the period of time left on 
the policy that she hadnt been able to use. So, she raised a complaint.
Miss M didnt think it was fair for EIL to retain her full policy premium, when she had only 
benefited from around 65 days of cover. So, she wanted EIL to refund her the remaining 
premium amount, which she calculated to be around £405.
EIL responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained that, where a policy has 
been cancelled mid-term, but a claim has been made, the premium must be paid in full and 
no refund would be due. But they did explain this would change if they were able to recover 
all of their costs paid for the claim. At the time of their response, the TPI hadnt accepted 
liability or paid EILs costs. So, EIL didnt think they had done anything wrong. Miss M 
remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained that, as EILs 
costs remained outstanding and unrecovered, Miss Ms claim wasnt yet classified as a non-
fault. And where a claim has been made on a policy, that hasnt been deemed non-fault, 
then we wouldnt expect an insurer to refund any premiums. So, while our investigator 
recognised Miss Ms frustration, they didnt think EIL had done anything wrong or needed to 
do anything more.
Miss M didnt agree. She didnt think it was fair that she wouldve been able to continue 
making use of the policy, had she added her replacement car to it. And she reiterated her 
belief that it was unfair, based on no legal reason, as to why she should be forced to wait 
until EIL recover their costs for her refund to be processed.
Our investigator considered these comments, but their position remained the same. And 
Miss M responded again with further comments expressing her unhappiness. These 
included, and are not limited to, her belief that it was EILs own internal decision to pay her 
costs and then seek reimbursement from the TPI. So, she didnt think she should be 
disadvantaged by the delay in recovering these. And she didnt think the terms and 
conditions of the policy were fair, believing they favoured EIL. As Miss M didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss M. I dont dispute Miss 
Ms testimony regarding the circumstances of the accident, and that at the time the third-
party admitted liability. So, I can understand why Miss M feels the claim she made is non-
fault. And because of this, I can understand why Miss M feels its unfair for her to have paid 
a premium for a full years cover, been prevented from utilising this due to the actions of a 
third-party and then not receive a refund from EIL.
But for me to say EIL should do something differently, such as refund Miss Ms remaining 
pro-rata premium now, I first need to be satisfied EIL have done something wrong. So, I 
need to be satisfied they failed to act in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Miss 
M held when refusing to refund the remaining premium amount. Or, if I think they did act 
within these, that they acted unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Miss M held. And these explain under EILs 
rights to cancel the policy that If we cancel your policy and you have made a claim or been 
involved in an incident you will still have to pay the full premiumIf you have not made a 
claim, or been involved in an incident you will have to pay the premium for the period of 
cover you have used.
In this situation, I think Miss M has made a claim on her insurance policy. While I recognise 
Miss M feels the costs EIL occurred should be recovered from the TPI, at the time Miss M 
raised her complaint, this recovery hadnt been successful. So, at the time EIL refused to 
refund Miss Ms premiums, EIL had paid Miss M the value of her car as well as the costs of 
the hire car she received while the claim was processed.
Because of this, in line with the terms and conditions Ive quoted above, I think its made 
reasonably clear that Miss M would be required to pay the full premium cost for the entire 
year of cover. And as she paid this up front, I wouldnt expect a refund to be provided by EIL. 
So, I dont think I can say theyve acted outside of the terms and conditions or that theyve 
acted unfairly in some other way. 
Ive seen in EILs final response to Miss Ms complaint, they confirmed they would consider a 
pro-rata refund if their costs can be recovered successfully. And this is the approach Id 
expect them to take, which falls in line with the terms and conditions, as if the costs are recovered, they wouldnt have incurred a financial loss. So, it is at this point I think Miss Ms 
would be officially classed as non-fault and so, that no claim has been made against the 
policy EIL provided. I wouldnt expect a refund to be provided until this point.
I recognise Miss M wont agree with this. And I want to reassure Miss M Ive considered all 
the points shes made, including her belief that it was EILs own internal decision to settle her 
claim first, and then recover it from the TPI. But this approach falls in line with standard 
industry guidelines and is what Id have expected EIL to do, as it ensured Miss M received a 
hire car and the valuation for her car within a reasonable amount of time.
EIL are also unable to control the actions of the TPI, and the TPIs failure to reimburse their 
costs. So, while I do recognise Miss Ms unhappiness at being without a refund of her 
premiums, I dont think this is because of anything EIL have done wrong. And so, I dont 
think EIL need to do anything more on this occasion.
I do think its also worth pointing out that Miss M did have the choice of adding a new car to 
her existing policy and if she had, she wouldve been able to utilise the cover she had 
already paid for. It was Miss Ms own decision to purchase a new car that included separate 
insurance and so, her choice not to add a new car to the existing policy. I dont think it would 
be fair to say EIL have done anything wrong here because of this, and Id expect them to 
continue to cancel the policy in line with the terms and conditions, which I think they have.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about esure Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman