DRN-3306424
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) wont refund money 
he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mr M was contacted by email by someone he believed was a senior colleague in the 
company he worked for. The email was received to his work email address and during the 
working day. It asked him to purchase gift cards for clients. Unfortunately for Mr M, the email 
had actually come from a fraudster.
Mr M had only recently started the job and was worried about not complying with the 
request, so he purchased a number of gift cards and provided their codes to the fraudster 
over a popular messaging application.
Mr M initially made five £100 card transactions in quick succession at a supermarket. Next, 
about an hour later, he made a £1,000 payment at a different retailer and, finally, two further 
£250 transactions about an hour after that at a third retailer. Following the last transaction 
Tesco blocked him from making any further payments. The following day he spoke to Tesco 
and the scam was revealed. 
Mr M complained that Tesco had failed to pick up on unusual and out of character 
transactions. Tesco said that as the payments had been authorised by Mr M they wouldnt 
reimburse them.
 
One of our investigators upheld the complaint in part, they were of the view that the activity 
was suspicious enough in nature that Tesco ought to have intervened sooner. So, they 
recommended that the £1,000 payment, as well as the two transactions which followed 
ought to be refunded. 
Tesco disagreed. In summary, it said:
- It did have security systems in place  as evidenced by the block it applied. It was 
unfair for the investigator to have arbitrarily suggested a different point at which it 
ought to have intervened
- Occasional larger spending on a credit card is not unusual 
- The obligations the investigator suggested arent regulatory and, in fact, its regulatory 
obligations require it to process payments 
- It isnt the role of our service to decide how Tesco should operate its security 
systems
- Mr M should take some responsibility for what happened  given that he didnt 
question the unusual requests to repeatedly buy gift cards from different retailers.
 
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute Mr M used his security credentials to authorise each payment. So, under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr M 
is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Tesco should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Ive reviewed the activity which took place on Mr Ms credit card in the six months before the 
scam and I cant see any comparable activity. The fraudulent activity clearly stands out as 
being remarkable and I think it ought to have prompted Tesco to intervene.
But its not really in dispute here that the activity which took place on Mr Ms account was 
unusual  it was enough to prompt Tesco to block further transactions after the second £250 
payment. The dispute here is about whether that intervention came soon enough and 
whether our service, in any case, ought to be deciding at which point an intervention should 
have come. 
Ive already set out above the basis on which we might decide whether a business has done 
enough to protect its customer from financial harm from fraud. While it may not be our role to 
instruct Tesco how to operate its security systems, it is our role to consider whether Tesco 
has met the obligations Ive set out. 
Having done so, Im satisfied the intervention should have come earlier. The activity on Mr 
Ms account is not just unusual for him  but is consistent both with a known scam and 
unauthorised use of the card. The five £100 payments are all made in a short space of time 
and are all for the same round amount.  When the use of the card continued about an hour 
later  this time with a much larger transaction, I think Tesco ought to have recognised Mr M 
was at risk of financial harm from fraud and intervened before allowing this payment to go 
ahead. I dont agree that my view on this is arbitrary  as Tesco suggest. While there may 
well be customers who use their cards in this way legitimately  it seems far from typical 
and, in my opinion, a strong potential indicator of fraud. 
Had Tesco intervened, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr M wouldnt have revealed what 
he was doing  he had not, for example, been told to mislead the bank. And, given that Mr M was falling victim to a relatively well-known scam, I think Tesco would have been able to 
quickly identify what he was doing and prevented any further loss.
Ive also thought about Mr Ms role in what happened. In doing so, Ive taken into account 
the fact hed started his job relatively recently and was still in a probationary period. It 
appears he was understandably very keen not to refuse to carry out what appeared to be 
legitimate instructions coming from a superior. 
Its also clear that Mr M wasnt familiar with this type of scam. So, while I accept that the 
requests were unusual  particularly those to visit more than one retailer  I dont think Mr M 
was negligent by failing to recognise that he was falling victim to a scam. 
Overall, I dont think Tesco acted fairly by refusing to refund all of the disputed transactions 
and it should settle the complaint in the way Ive outlined below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and instruct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to:
- Refund to Mr Ms account the value of payment six, seven and eight - £1,500
- Rework the account as if those transactions had never taken place
- If that results in a credit balance, pay 8% simple interest per annum on that credit 
balance from the date it would have been created had the refunded transactions not 
taken place, to the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman