DRN-2944218
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Western Union International Bank GmbH handled his request to 
send a payment.
 
What happened
In May 2021 Mr P asked Western Union to send a payment to another account of his in 
Thailand. Mr P subsequently found that the transaction had been marked complete by 
Western Union, but the funds hadnt reached the intended account. So, on 30 May 2021 he 
raised his concern with Western Union.
The next day Western Union told Mr P that the payment had been made correctly and 
successfully and ought to be credited to his other account by 1 June 2021, dependent on 
any processes and handling time imposed by the receiving bank.
In the subsequent days Mr P exchanged a number of emails with Western Union about why 
its system had marked the payment as complete when it hadnt been received. He said it 
was misleading. Western Union told Mr P that his payment was marked as complete 
automatically, but it didnt necessarily mean it had been delivered. 
Ultimately Western Union issued a final response to Mr Ps assertion that hed been misled 
on 5 June 2021. It reiterated that the transaction had been marked as complete because it 
had been sent successfully, but it didnt mean that the receiving bank had credited the funds 
to the intended account. It accepted that in previous correspondence it hadnt been as 
helpful as it couldve been, so it offered an apology for any inconvenience it had caused.
 
Mr P didnt accept the apology Western Union offered. He asked to be compensated £30 for 
the poor service received, which Western Union declined. It did, however, offer him a 
promotional code which gave money off a subsequent transaction. Dissatisfied with the 
response, Mr P referred a complaint to this service.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said, in summary, that they could see why 
Mr P would be concerned about the transaction being marked as complete, but that Western 
Union had explained their process promptly when he asked. They didnt uphold the 
complaint.
 
Mr P didnt agree. He reiterated that his complaint was in a large part due to the service hed 
received from Western Union, specifically that hed had to ask it a number of times to 
address his specific concern about the misleading status of the payment. 
As Mr P asked for an ombudsmans decision, the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Ive seen, my understanding is that the transaction Mr P asked Western Union to 
complete was carried out accurately and in line with the timescales it gave Mr P. The issue 
at the heart of Mr Ps complaint is whether, in carrying out that transaction, Western Union 
misled Mr P about the status of the transaction and whether it handled his subsequent 
concerns appropriately.
 
Like our investigator, I accept that Mr P might have been concerned to see that his 
transaction had been marked as complete but hadnt been received by the intended account. 
So, I can see why he raised this question with Western Union. 
Nonetheless, Im satisfied that Western Union responded promptly, giving a reasonable 
explanation as to why the transaction had been marked as complete and an overview as to 
when the funds would be received in the intended account. Taking into account the 
explanation that Western Union offered, overall, Im not satisfied that Mr P was misled by 
Western Union about the status of his transaction.
 
From what its said, it seems that Western Union accepts that it wasnt as helpful as it 
couldve been in responding to his concern that hed been misled. Having reviewed the 
correspondence Mr P had with Western Union, specifically on 2 June 2021, I agree that 
Western Union couldve identified and responded to Mr Ps concerns sooner than it did.
 
However, taking into account that Mr P raised his initial concern about the status of the 
payment on 30 May 2021, received an explanation from Western Union the next day, and 
ultimately received a final response to his complaint on 5 June 2021, I think its fair to say 
that Mr Ps concerns were addressed very promptly overall. Im also satisfied that Western 
Unions final response appropriately addressed Mr Ps concerns, and it was fair for it to refer 
Mr P back to that position when he contacted it subsequently.
Taking all of the above into account, Im satisfied that Western Union didnt mislead Mr P 
and provided a reasonable level of service overall. I agree with the very minor service failing 
that Western Union identified, but I dont think that justifies a compensatory award, taking all 
the circumstances into account.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman