DRN-2925863
The complaint
Mr H complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont remove a linked address from his credit file. 
  
What happened
Mr H opened his Monzo account using its mobile app in July 2019. When completing the 
application Mr H gave an address for Monzo to register his account. Monzo sent Mr Hs bank 
card to the address he registered. 
In March 2020 Mr H updated his address. 
Mr H later contacted Monzo and a credit reference agency as he found his credit file had 
been linked to the address provided when he opened his account. The credit reference 
agency said it couldnt remove the address without the permission of Monzo. And Monzo 
said the address was correctly recorded because Mr H provided it when the account was 
opened. 
Mr H complained but Monzo didnt agree to amend his credit file. Monzo paid Mr H £50 to 
apologise for delays and poor service when responding to his complaint. Mr H referred his 
complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. In its file submission, Monzo 
offered an additional £50, taking the total award to £100, to apologise for the service 
provided. 
The investigator thought Monzos increased offer was a fair way to resolve Mr Hs complaint 
and didnt ask it to amend his credit file. Mr H asked to appeal, so his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the application process and information Mr H provided, that was recorded on 
Monzos systems, when he applied for his account. Mr H gave the disputed address as his 
address. And Mr Hs Monzo bank card was dispatched to that address. I understand Mr H 
says the address belongs to a friend and that he has never lived there, but that isnt the 
information provided in the application. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but Im satisfied he provided the address in question in his 
application. And that means Mr Hs account was registered at that address until he updated 
his details in March 2020. Given Mr H opened the account using the disputed address and it 
was operated using that information Im satisfied its acting reasonably by reporting a 
financial association to the credit reference agencies. As a result, Im not telling Monzo to 
change the information it reports. 
Monzo increased its offer of compensation to £100 to reflect delays Mr H experienced when 
raising the above issue. Im satisfied £100 fairly reflects the impact of the delays and service 
provided to Mr H. As Im satisfied Monzo has already made an offer that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to increase its offer or take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr H a total of 
£100 (less any compensation already paid).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman