DRN-2033293
 
The complaint
Mr F complains that a car he acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) wasnt as specified. He would like the car 
replaced.
What happened
Mr F says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with MBFS in September 2019. He says 
in October 2019 he was concerned as the white paint on the car was yellowing. Also, that 
the car didnt come with a Smartphone Integration MirrorLink system that he believed was 
part of the specification.
He says he wasnt happy that MBFS offered to end his agreement, allowing him to reject the 
car, along with a refund of his deposit with  8% interest, a  15% discount on 2 monthly 
instalments for loss of enjoyment totalling and £250in compensation.
Mr F thought MBFS were legally obliged to replace his car. Although he put forward an 
alternative suggestion of refunding the interest applied on the agreement, compensating him 
£299 for mis specifying the MirrorLink system along with the £250 compensation already 
offered MBFS didnt accept this.
He says MBFS then offered him the option to keep the car with a 15% discount on the 
monthly payments for the entirety of the agreement  (£2778) plus the £250 compensation. 
But he still wasnt happy with this
MBFS accepted Mr F had been given wrong information about the MirrorLink system which 
was not available on cars in this country. It said the paint discolouration was in the  engine 
bay where discolouration can occur due to heat generated from the engine. It offered either 
to allow Mr F to reject the car or to keep it with reduced payments. It said it was unable to 
replace the car as that wasnt within its scope as a finance provider.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.  He found that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
states a consumer cant require a trader to repair or replace the goods if  repair or  
replacement is impossible. And he accepted MBFS said replacing the car wasnt  possible. 
He felt either rejection or a price reduction as offered was fair.
He also found the MirrorLink system wasnt an option and so this hadnt been incorporated 
into the price of the car. He explained we try to put consumers back in a position that they 
would have been .In this case Mr F says he wouldnt have bought the car had he been 
aware he couldnt have this system. So as MBFS had offered to allow him to reject the car 
he felt this put Mr F back in the position he would have been in  i.e. not going ahead with 
the purchase .
He noted Mr Fs concern that he would be financially disadvantaged having been given a car 
of unsatisfactory quality. That he needed a car for work and rejection would leave him 
without a car as he would have to rent a car for six months until he was able to get another 
once. Our investigator didnt feel it was fair to expect MBFS to compensate for future 
consequential losses.
MBFS accepted this view but Mr F didnt. He didnt believe it was fair given he felt there was 
a breach of contract with consequential losses. He then put forward an alternative 
settlement. He said he would accept keeping the car with the reduction in payments and 
£250  compensation  if MBFS agreed to add £299 for the fact the car didnt come with the 
MirrorLink system he expected. He then later added a request that the 15 % reduction on 
payments should be applied to his deposit as well.
Our investigator put this offer to MBFS but made it clear that it was not his recommendation 
as he felt the two offers MBFS had already made were reasonable.
MBFS didnt agree to Mr Fs suggested settlement. It accepted it gave Mr F wrong 
information about the MirrorLink system and recognised that in its offer to allow Mr F to 
reject the car. It felt the two options it had given Mr F were more than reasonable with one 
allowing him to keep the car at a reduced price and the other allowing him to reject it.
It said the deposit Mr F paid reduced the monthly payments Mr F made and it had already 
offered to reduce these payments. It was also concerned that if it reduced the deposit that 
would be to the detriment of other consumers since it has never agreed to this before.
As MBFS didnt accept Mr Fs suggested settlement Mr F asked for an Ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mr F was led to believe, through documentation he was 
given, that his car would have a Smart phone MirrorLink system which it didnt have. MBFS 
has accepted this. Although it has pointed out that Mr F wasnt charged for this.
In terms of the paint discolouration MBFS says this is mainly in the engine bay where it could 
be expected to discolour due to heat generation from the engine. It has also pointed out that 
discolouration can occur over time due to a variety of factors for example the weather. It 
doesnt feel his has impacted on the value of the car. I appreciate that Mr F wouldnt agree 
with that .
Mr F said under consumer law he feels MBFS should replace the car as he wants. I should 
point out that although we take consumer law into account, we are not bound by it. We look 
at what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each case. MBFS has said as a 
finance provider its not in a position to provide another car but has offered other solutions it 
feels are reasonable.
I have carefully considered the two options MBFS has put to Mr F as I do feel something 
needs to be done to address the problems Mr F has had. One option allows him to keep the 
car at a reduced cost  Mr F has told us it would be inconvenient to be without a car. He 
says it would take hm six months to get a new one so this option would allow him to keep the 
car.
The other option MBFS has offered to Mr F is to allow him to reject the car  Mr F has told 
us had he known the car didnt come with the Smartphone MirrorLink system he wouldnt 
have bought it . So, if thats the case, if he accepts the rejection option that puts him back in 
the position he would have been in when he was buying the car  i.e. he could have chosen 
not to go ahead when he realised the MirrorLink system wasnt included.I think MBFS has acted very reasonably in making these two offers. If Mr F takes up the 
rejection option, he doesnt have to worry about any future devaluation due to paint 
discolouration.  But  if he feels the 15% reduction in monthly payments  is enough 
compensation for any future loss of value, he can choose to keep the car. Both offers include 
£250 compensation which I feel is adequate for not having the MirrorLink system.
I appreciate Mr F has asked for the 15% reduction to apply to his deposit as well. I dont 
think that is reasonable. The deposit paid reduces the level of monthly repayments.  MBFS 
has already offered a 15% reduction in these and if Mr F doesnt feel this is enough, he can 
opt to reject the car. 
Mr F has also asked for a payment of £299 for not his car not having the MirrorLink system. I 
appreciate Mr F expected to have this, but he didnt pay for it. I think two options both 
adequately compensate Mr F for this, so I see no reason to further increase them.
I think Mr F has to decide if his priority is to keep the car and not have the inconvenience of 
replacing it or whether he feels the lack of the MirrorLink and concern over the paint is such 
that rejection would be the best option for him.
My final decision
My final decision is that  In full and final settlement Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited should :-
Either 
- Allow Mr F to reject the car and take the car back at no cost to Mr F
- Refund Mr Fs deposit with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
- Refund 15% of two monthly instalments to reflect loss of enjoyment of the car
- Pay Mr F £250 compensation for any inconvenience caused
Or if Mr F prefers
- Reduce Mr Fs monthly payments by 15% for the duration of this current Hire 
Purchase Agreement
Pay Mr F £250 compensation for any inconvenience caused
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman