DRN-4152517
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Vitality Corporate Services Limited trading as VitalityLife wont allow 
him to access a policy benefit for a watch.  
What happened
Mr K has a policy with Vitality  one of the benefits is access to a watch. Mr K contacted 
Vitality to ask for a watch but was told that he wasnt eligible because he didnt pay enough 
premiums. Mr K complained but Vitality maintained their decision not to give him a watch. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
Vitality had acted in line with the policy terms. 
Mr K didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He questioned the 
point of paying for the optimiser cover. He questioned what he was paying for if he wasnt 
entitled to the benefits.
So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vitality has provided the criteria for being eligible to get a watch. It says: 
Youll qualify for the Apple Watch deal if you have one of the following Vitality plans 
(each a Plan): 
3. Life insurance  any life insurance plan with Vitality Plus benefits. Youll also 
need to pay at least £45 a month for an individual Plan or £60 a month for a 
Joint Plan, excluding any fee paid for Vitality Plus.
Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint because: 
Mr K paid less than £45 per month for his plan. So, I dont think he met the relevant 
criteria for a watch. 
Mr K pays for optimiser cover which enables him to access an enhanced range of 
rewards and benefits. I dont think the information Mr K has provided says that he will 
get a watch because he pays for this additional cover. And I think its reasonable for 
Vitality to apply the eligibility criteria Ive outlined above. 
Ive not seen any persuasive or compelling evidence that Mr K was told by Vitality he 
would get a watch if he selected optimiser cover. If Mr K has concerns about how 
the benefit was presented to him during the sales process hell need to address 
those with the seller of the policy. And, in any event, I think its fair and reasonable 
that Vitality apply the relevant criteria.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman