DRN-3592983
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how American International Group UK Limited (AIG) dealt with a 
claim he made under his gadget insurance policy. He doesnt accept the £170 compensation 
it has offered and wants it to pay the cost of the new phone he bought.
Ms B, while a joint policyholder, was not involved in the claim process I therefore wont be 
referring to her in my reasoning below.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator that AIG has acted fairly. I do so for 
the following reasons:
The policy terms and conditions explain that unbranded or refurbished parts may be 
used in the repair of a device. They also explain replacement devices maybe 
refurbished. So I dont think AIG acted incorrectly when it initially repaired the phone 
screen or when it sent a refurbished device as a replacement. 
AIG followed its claims process and after the repair failed, it provided a replacement 
device. I realise it would have been inconvenient for Mr B to have a phone that was 
not fully functioning and there was a slight delay in a replacement being made 
available to him. However, I dont think AIG needs to reimburse Mr B the cost of the 
new phone he decided to buy in the meantime.
AIG has accepted Mr B was provided with incorrect information and acknowledges 
he found it frustrating trying to communicate with it across different communication 
platforms. In addition, it recognises there was a small delay in providing a 
replacement device to him. It offered Mr B £170 compensation in total and, having 
considered everything, I think this fairly recognises the trouble and upset he was 
caused. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint against American International 
Group UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman