DRN-3096374
The complaint
Miss L complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) having originally advised her she could 
port her mortgage, then told her this wasnt allowed and applied an early repayment charge 
when the mortgage was redeemed.
What happened
Miss L has a mortgage with Barclays, which she says was taken out on the understanding it 
could be ported to another property. In 2019 Miss L was selling her property, and she was 
looking to move into another property she already owned. Miss L wanted to port part of her 
mortgage to that property to take advantage of the beneficial terms it offered. Miss L says 
she was told the mortgage couldnt be ported to a property she already owned, despite the 
fact she was told she could, when she originally discussed the mortgage offer back in 2015. 
Miss L feels Barclays have unfairly applied an early repayment charge (ERC) of over £5,000, 
when she should have been able to port the mortgage.
Barclays says in the terms and conditions of her mortgage, it is clear that the porting feature 
was only available for properties not already owned by her. Barclays says the ERC has been 
applied correctly.
Miss L wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said Barclays porting policy makes clear customers cannot port a mortgage product to a 
property they already own. The investigator also said there is no evidence to show Barclays 
told Miss L she could port her mortgage product to an existing property she owned. He says 
Miss L was informed by Barclays that an ERC would be payable on redemption, and this 
was sometime before the mortgage was repaid, so Miss L would have been aware of this.
Miss L didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would be upsetting for Miss L to learn she had to pay a sizeable ERC on 
the mortgage for the property she was selling, as she believed this mortgage was portable to 
another property she owned. 
When looking at this complaint, I will consider whether Barclays acted fairly when they 
informed Miss L her mortgage wasnt portable to the other property she owned and applied 
the ERC when the mortgage was redeemed.
Miss L says when she originally discussed the terms of her mortgage product back in 2015, 
she was told the mortgage product was portable and that was important to her as she 
wanted to avoid potential ERCs. 
Its worth saying, porting a mortgage is when a lender agrees to allow their customers to 
transfer a mortgage product from one property to another, in most cases when moving 
home, without any ERCs. In this case, Miss L owned a separate property which she 
intended moving into when she sold her home and wanted to port the mortgage to this 
property. 
From the information I have seen Miss Ls mortgage with Barclays was split into two 
separate  elements, initially formed of a fixed interest rate mortgage and a tracker interest 
rate mortgage. What happened here is in November 2017, Miss L switched the tracker 
interest rate element of her mortgage to a fixed interest rate mortgage, expiring in January 
2020. From the offer letter, I can see this element of the mortgage carried an ERC of 3%. In 
addition, in July 2018 the other element of her mortgage, which was previously on a fixed 
interest rate, expired and a new fixed interest rate product was taken out by Miss L, fixed 
until June 2020, carrying a 1% ERC. Its fair to say the existing terms and conditions of the 
mortgage remained the same here. So, in summary when Miss L was looking to sell her 
property in September 2019, she had in place two fixed interest rate mortgage products, 
both subject to ERCs. The mortgage offers for each of these product transfers state that 
Miss L took these products out without receiving advice from Barclays. 
Miss L says when she discussed the mortgage in 2015, she was led to believe it was a 
portable product and this was reconfirmed to her in subsequent conversations with Barclays 
in 2019. While I understand the point Miss L makes here, the only discussions I have had 
access to are two telephone calls in July 2019, prior to the sale of Miss Ls property in 
September 2019. In those calls while Miss L raised the issue about the potential portability of 
her mortgage product, there is nothing to suggest Barclays told Miss L this would be 
possible, instead what happened here is Miss L was advised to speak to either a mortgage 
advisor or a broker and complete a full mortgage application. 
 
I have also seen email correspondence, following on from those telephone conversations 
with Barclays, from a member of Barclays premier relationship staff in July 2019. In that 
email exchange between Barclays and Miss L it was reconfirmed an ERC was payable, as 
her mortgage product couldnt be transferred to a new mortgage on a property she already 
owned. While its fair to say in her earlier discussions with Barclays Miss L was told the 
product was portable, that wasnt incorrect, but portable mortgage applications are subject to 
the terms and conditions and need to meet the lending criteria.
Under the terms and conditions of Miss Ls mortgage offer with Barclays, section 10  it says:
 If you buy another property to move to, you can transfer (port) the mortgage interest rate to 
a new mortgage for the purchased property.
Unfortunately, that isnt the case here, as Miss L already owned the property she wanted to 
port the mortgage to, rather than buying another property, as the terms and conditions 
require. From the information I have seen, Miss L intended to repay her mortgage held with 
another lender, on the property she already owned and was looking to move back to, by 
transferring (porting) an element of the Barclays mortgage, to that property.
Barclays have also provided me with their policy on porting mortgages where it states: its 
not possible to port a product to a property the customer already owns, and this is 
consistent with their mortgage terms and conditions, so on balance, Im not persuaded that a 
member of Barclays staff, in all likelihood knowing this, would have advised her otherwise. I 
am satisfied the transaction Miss L was attempting to make unfortunately didnt meet the requirements of Barclays porting policy, even if Miss L thinks it should, and this was detailed 
in the terms and conditions of her mortgage offer, as I have already mentioned. 
With this in mind I am satisfied Barclays have acted fairly in charging the ERC on Miss Ls 
mortgage when they did. 
While Miss L will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman