DRN-4448856
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC has treated them unfairly when dealing 
with the arrears on their residential mortgage.
The background to this complaint is extensive and goes back many years. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service has previously dealt with several complaints from Mr and Mrs T about 
this mortgage and also their buy-to-let mortgages held with Barclays. As our investigators 
have explained, we wont look at those complaints again. We also cant consider anything 
that has happened other than what forms part of this complaint Mr and Mrs T have now 
made to Barclays.
Mr and Mrs T complain that Barclays is unfairly seeking possession of their property without 
keeping them updated about its intention and notwithstanding that theyve been making 
attempts to get their account back on track. 
In addition, they complain about the distress suffered by continuing to receive letters 
regarding legal action, despite being told that proceedings had been stayed by Barclays 
pending the outcome of this complaint.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them again here in detail. Instead, Ill summarise the main facts that I consider to be 
fundamental to the outcome and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
In 2017, Mr and Mrs Ts financial circumstances changed which impacted their ability to 
maintain payments across their mortgage accounts. Over the years their residential 
mortgage has accrued arrears of almost £40,000.
In April 2020 another Ombudsman at our service issued a final decision setting out why he 
didnt think Barclays had acted unreasonably by declining the proposals put forward by 
Mr and Mrs T  since none of the options put forward presented reasonable prospect of 
getting the account back on track. The Ombudsman concluded that in the absence of an 
agreed way forward to repay the arrears, it may be possible for Barclays to consider 
possession of the property.
Another Ombudsman issued a final decision on another complaint relating to this mortgage 
in June 2021. The basis of that complaint was inherently different, so I wont summarise the 
outcome here. 
As Ive explained, Im unable to reconsider any of the complaint issues that formed part of 
these (or any other) complaints brought by Mr and Mrs T against Barclays. Mr and Mrs T 
have said that they understand this, but in any event this complaint relates to how they say 
Barclays has handled the arrears on their account since those decisions were issued. 
Mr and Mrs T say that their circumstances have improved and for the past few years theyve 
been maintaining their contractual monthly payments plus more, to slowly reduce their 
arrears. In late 2022 they contacted our service to complain that Barclays had written to 
them to start legal action without any prior notice or any suggestion that the arrears were an 
ongoing cause for concern. As they put it, in the absence of such communication they 
thought their arrears had been capitalised and the payments they were making were 
sufficient. 
Mr and Mrs T have expressed their concern about multiple failures on Barclays part. These 
include not providing a consistent point of contact and absence of proper engagement 
between relevant departments handling their mortgage. 
Upon bringing their complaint to our service, Mr and Mrs T asked that we get Barclays to 
agree to put proceedings on hold while we consider their complaint and to allow them time to 
come up with a suitable proposal to get their account back on track. During that time Mr and 
Mrs T put forward to our service some informal proposals to reduce their arrears  this 
included making two lump sum payments of £10,000 to reduce their arrears balance. 
It took Barclays some time to agree to the stayed court action (around one month). And after 
doing so, Mr and Mrs T continued to receive court action letters from Barclays legal team. 
They say this caused them unnecessary distress during what was already a worrying time 
for them.
Around this time, Barclays also issued its final response to the complaint. In its letter it said 
that due to Mr and Mrs Ts change in circumstances it was willing to reconsider its position 
regarding proposed legal action. Barclays said that to date it was having trouble reaching 
Mr and Mrs T to discuss the proposals put forward. To agree a way forward Mr and Mrs T 
would need to contact the Litigation team to discuss their account and agree a plan moving 
forward. This cannot be done via a complaint, as an affordability assessment would need to 
be carried out.
The investigator continued to consider the complaint and didnt uphold it. He said that the 
onus was on the parties to actively engage with each other to agree a realistic and 
affordable plan for getting the account back on track. He reminded Mr and Mrs T that he was 
unable to revisit any previous decisions issued by our service about Barclays earlier 
responses to previous proposals.
In addition, he said that given the level of arrears, he didnt think it was unreasonable for 
Barclays to start legal action and Barclays wasnt under any obligation to adjourn the court 
hearing either. So, he didnt think he could fairly make a compensation award for this reason.
In response, Mr and Mrs T have asked that we put their proposals forward to Barclays on 
their behalf. They also feel that the investigator has misunderstood part of their complaint 
relating to the adjournment of the court hearing. Their concern is the time taken to agree this 
and the miscommunication regarding the matter that they say caused heightened distress at 
the time. 
Because an agreement wasnt reached the case was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision, and an extract of my provisional findings is below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive explained the background to this complaint is extensive and goes back many years.
There is also an ongoing dispute between the parties regarding whos at fault for the lack of
communication relating to the account.My intention is not to spend a large part of this decision focusing on historic events leading
up to this complaint being made. This is coupled with the fact that our rules dont allow for
me to reconsider any events that form part of earlier complaints already considered by our
service. Instead, to provide swift assistance to Mr and Mrs T and in an attempt to bring the
need to make persistent complaints to an end, Ill focus my attention on Barclays current
stance in relation to this complaint and determine the most suitable way forward in the
circumstances.
Its clear from Barclays final response letter dated 29 November 2022 that it recognises
there has been a change to Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances in recent years and as such it is
willing to reconsider options to bring the account back on track.
Our investigator has explained, and I agree, that the onus is on the parties themselves to
engage effectively with each other to agree a way forward.
I expect Barclays to treat Mr and Mrs T fairly, by discussing their circumstances with them to
try to get the mortgage back on track. Mr T has previously presented a proposal to pay a
combined lump sum of £20,000 to reduce their arrears balance. In response to the
investigators outcome on the case, hes also provided our service with a detailed income
and expenditure report.
Regarding the proposal to pay a significant amount towards the arrears, its not clear if such
payment has been made yet  but I do suspect, doing so, will be advantageous for
Mr and Mrs T regarding their remaining arrears balance and make the agreement of any
plans to clear the rest, less onerous.
Any future plans will need to be agreed between the parties themselves. Barclays isnt
reasonably expected to offer a concession without going through Mr and Mrs Ts
circumstances, as it could be irresponsible for it to do so  in risk of it agreeing to something
that might be inappropriate or unaffordable for them.
But the onus doesnt stop entirely with Barclays. Mr and Mrs T also need to engage
meaningfully with Barclays about their circumstances, and supply any reasonable evidence it
requests, such as detailed information about their income and expenditure and potentially
pay slips or similar evidence of their income.
Although Barclays cant dedicate a single point of contact to the case, it has provided the
telephone number for its litigation team for Mr and Mrs T to make contact. As such I
encourage Mr and Mrs T to make contact in the way described by Barclays in its final
response letter. Its their responsibility to directly communicate any suitable proposals and
Barclays is required to consider all the possible concessions available in light of
Mr and Mrs Ts current circumstances  even those that may have previously been
considered to be unsuitable  as things have since changed.
Once the parties have engaged, proposals have been fairly considered and Barclays has
made its decision regarding next steps for the account, if Mr and Mrs T remain unhappy,
then they can potentially complain again.
I must manage Mr and Mrs Ts expectations here and explain that whilst a complaint is with
our service, we can only ask a business to stay any possession action, we cant compel a
business to do so. Barclays may refuse to agree to any further hearing adjournments if its
concerned that doing so is not in the customers best interest. So, I must make it clear that
Im in no way encouraging any further complaints being raised here. And I do hope that it
wont come to that as both parties appear to be keen to agree a way forward.Everything Ive set out above is largely what the investigator said in his response. The part I
agree less with his is his interpretation of the complaint regarding the postponement of legal
proceedings.
I do agree with Mr and Mrs T that it took too long for Barclays to confirm proceedings had
been stayed and until the very last minute, Mr and Mrs T were left worrying that the hearing
was still going ahead. I accept Barclays is under no obligation to agree an adjournment of
court action in light of an ongoing complaint with our service. But that said, after confirming
the adjournment in November 2022, Mr and Mrs T still received communication from
Barclays legal team about a planned hearing. Barclays later confirmed this was sent in
error. I think Barclays caused avoidable distress in the circumstances and it should fairly
compensate Mr and Mrs T for its failing here. In line with our published awards bandings,
Ive decided that a fair award for a mistake of this nature lasting over a month or so is £250.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to pay Mr and Mrs T £250 compensation for its failing when communicating regarding 
the stayed court action
Both parties have now responded to my provisional decision. Barclays initially asked for 
some more information to support my reason for awarding £250 compensation. This was 
provided and Barclays agreed with the provisional findings. Mr and Mrs T responded to say 
that they disagree with my provisional findings. 
In summary Mr and Mrs T say:
They think its unreasonable that our service wont share their proposals with 
Barclays. 
They refer to events dating back to pre-2021 and feel Barclays needs to pay more 
attention and address things that happened from 2017 when they first fell into 
financial difficulty.
They have been trying to engage with Barclays using the email address given, and 
with its solicitor, including sending their proposals across. Theyve received no 
response from Barclays. 
Theyve not paid the proposed amount of £20,000 to help reduce their arrears 
balance. And theyre unhappy their monthly mortgage payments have increased, 
although theyve been maintaining their contractual monthly payments for the last 14 
months and feel they should have better options to make their mortgage more 
affordable. 
They dont agree £250 fairly compensates them in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have given careful consideration to Mr and Mrs Ts response, but I note that neither party 
has made any new arguments, or provided any new evidence, that Ive not already 
considered when reaching my provisional decision. So, I wont be departing from what I 
provisionally decided. That said, I will however for clarity address Mr and Mrs Ts response.Ive explained that the scope of my decision focuses only on the events that have occurred 
outside of any earlier complaints brought to our service by Mr and Mrs T. 
I do empathise with Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances. I want to explain why there are several 
reasons why it would not be appropriate for our service to present Mr and Mrs Ts proposals 
to Barclays as they suggest. 
In accordance with the Mortgage conduct of business (MCOB) rules, lenders must follow 
certain rules when dealing with a customer who is experiencing financial difficulty.  
Barclays is expected to treat Mr and Mrs T fairly. It must discuss their circumstances with 
them and try to get the mortgage back on track. This is reflected in MCOB 13.3, which says 
lenders should act fairly towards a customer who is in arrears.
Its necessary for Barclays and Mrs and Mrs T to engage meaningfully with each other. 
Firstly Barclays will need to find out what Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances are. In practice, this 
usually means conducting an assessment of their income and expenditure. Mr and Mrs T will 
need to respond with the required information about their circumstances, whats possible for 
them, and supply any reasonable evidence Barclays request.
Barclays should then consider suitable options available to Mr and Mrs T to help get their 
mortgage back on track. MCOB 13.3.4A and MCOB 13.3.4C make it clear that lenders 
should consider all the options set out in the rule and be able to justify their decision to offer 
(or not offer) a particular concession. Barclays must be able to demonstrate that they've 
taken Mr and Mrs Ts individual circumstances into account when offering a particular 
concession. 
I must also manage Mr and Mrs Ts expectations by saying that Barclays is under no 
obligation to accept a proposal that they put forward. Barclays may decide another option is 
more suitable and affordable for Mr and Mrs T  but it must explain why. 
So, when considering everything, its not as simple as our service sharing Mr and Mrs Ts 
proposals with Barclays and the proposals being accepted. Fully assessing Mr and Mrs Ts 
circumstances and considering and discussing all the available options is a process that 
requires ongoing dialogue between the parties. Its not appropriate nor is it the role of our 
service to act as an intermediary or as a representative for customers. Our role is to resolve 
individual complaints quickly and informally and we must remain impartial. For these reasons 
I remain decided that our service will not share Mr and Mrs Ts proposals with Barclays on 
their behalf.
In response to this specific complaint that has been brought by Mr and Mrs T to our service  
I find that more is required in terms of communication between the parties and the steps, as 
set out above, need to be explored first  before our service can reasonably decide whether 
Mr and Mrs T have been treated unfairly.
I will take this opportunity to remind Barclays of its obligations under the MCOB rules. It must 
be responsive to attempts made by Mr and Mrs T to make contact and it must adequately 
consider the MCOB rules when offering support.
If Mr and Mrs T feel that Barclays is not adhering to the steps as set out in this legally 
binding decision, they should raise their concerns with Barclays. They should be specific 
about their attempts to make contact  including providing information about the date, time 
and contact method used (telephone number called/email address used). Providing any 
evidence that is available such as email threads and/or calls logs. If such a complaint is brought to our service and we find Barclays has acted unfairly well use our legal powers to 
direct Barclays to put things right.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs T £250 compensation for its 
failing when communicating regarding the stayed court action. Im satisfied that this is a fair 
award in the circumstances and a proportionate award in line with our published bandings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Mr and Mrs T £250 compensation for its failing when communicating regarding the stayed 
court action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman