DRN-3364026
The complaint
Mrs H has complained on behalf of herself and the estate of the late Mr B. She says that 
Capital One Homeowner Loans Limited (trading at the time as HFS) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a secured loan.
What happened
Mrs H and Mr B were sold a PPI policy with a secured loan in 2004. The cost of the PPI was 
added onto the loan as an upfront cost. This is called a single premium policy.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and found that Capital One were not 
covered by our compulsory jurisdiction at the time Mrs H and Mr Bs policy was sold. But 
Capital One was a member of the Mortgage Code Compliance Board at the time. And so 
any complaints made about the sale of the PPI couldve been made to the Mortgage Code 
Arbitration Scheme (MCAS). Our rules allow us to investigate some complaints which MCAS 
previously could have considered. But we can only look into the complaint in the same way 
that MCAS would have done.
Based on the available evidence, our adjudicator found they couldnt uphold the complaint 
on the limited basis which wouldve been covered by MCAS. Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mrs H and Capital One a provisional decision on 9 February 2022, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint could be upheld. In that decision, I said:
While I know this will come as a disappointment for Mrs H, based on what Ive seen so far 
I have not found a basis on which I can uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Selling insurance only became something we covered in its own right in January 2005. We 
can look at some complaints about insurance from before that date, but only if the complaint 
related to something we already covered, or if the business was a member of a former 
complaint scheme.
Capital One (trading as HFS at the time) was a member of a former scheme  the Mortgage 
Code Arbitration Scheme (MCAS for short). So we can look into this complaint, but only in 
the same way that MCAS could. That means I can only consider the points that MCAS could 
have considered. And MCAS could only have looked at whether the Mortgage Code was 
breached, or not.
The Mortgage Code mainly focused on mortgage advice and good lending practice, rather 
than selling insurance. Only a small part of the Mortgage Code related to insurance. So it 
placed very limited obligations on firms selling PPI alongside a mortgage or secured loan. 
Essentially, there were only four specific obligations, which were in summary:
To give a description of the insurance available;
To say whether the PPI was a condition of the loan;
To say whether it was a condition of the loan that the PPI had to be arranged by the 
firm; and
To give a general description of the cost of the PPI.
Because Im limited to the four points above, it means I can only consider the elements of 
this complaint which relate to whether Mr B and Mrs H were given a choice about buying PPI 
or not, and whether they were given a general description of the PPIs cost or not.
From Mr B and Mrs Hs application documents, I can see that the PPI was described as 
optional and they were given the choice to take it out or turn it down. The option to buy PPI 
was ticked, the option to turn it down was left blank, and Mr B and Mrs H signed below to 
confirm their choices. And the PPIs cost was set out distinctly to the loans cost  it wasnt a 
necessary condition of the loan or a hidden cost. Ive not seen any wider problems with the 
sales process from the time, nor anything which shows that Mr B or Mrs H were told that 
they had to buy PPI here. So I think its most likely that Mr B and Mrs H were made aware 
that the PPI was not a condition of the loan and that they didnt have to buy it from Capital 
One if they didnt want to.
In regard to the cost, again I can see that Mr B and Mrs Hs agreement set out a general 
description of the PPIs cost, including its premium and the interest rate.
So having carefully considered the available information and evidence, Im not persuaded 
that a breach of the Mortgage Code took place here.
I do understand that Mrs H has raised a number of other complaint points. For example, 
shes complained about the PPIs length, about its cancellation terms and what happened 
when they topped it up, about being told theyd get a refund if they didnt claim, about the 
agent getting commission, and about not being sold normal life cover instead. But Im afraid 
Im not allowed to consider such points in this case, because they do not fall under the four 
points I listed above. I understand if this is not intuitive, and I understand it will be 
disappointing for Mrs H that we cant consider her other complaint points. But I can only look 
at things under the rules that were in place at the time.
Lastly, Mrs H said she had another PPI policy which got refunded, and I understand why she 
raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, were suitable in different 
circumstances, were sold using different methods, and were subject to different regulations 
at different times. So while some PPI policies were mis-sold, others were not. We look at 
each case on its individual merits, and Ive explained above why I have not found this 
particular policy to have been mis-sold under the rules that apply from the time.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
9 March 2022. But neither side sent me anything new to consider.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this particular complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and the 
estate of Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman