DRN-2042678
 
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Premier Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy that it 
wouldnt deal with a claim under his commercial insurance policy and avoided his policy.
What happened
I considered the complaint in full and issued my provisional decision allowing both sides to 
comment. In summary, I said;
Mr P made a claim under his van insurance policy after it was involved in an accident. When 
Premier looked into things for him it realised the risk address wasnt correct. Mr P had said 
the van was kept at his home address, but the policy was taken out at his business address 
which was identified as a house/bungalow when it was in fact a shop. And had Premier have 
known this it wouldnt have insured Mr P, so it avoided his policy (treated it as if it didnt 
exist) and declined his claim. So Mr P complained to Premier and then this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He thought Premier 
couldnt show that Mr P was asked clear questions about the risk address and so it should 
reinstate the policy and reconsider the claim.
Premier didnt agree. It said the statement of fact that was sent to Mr P clearly showed the 
risk address was a house or bungalow and not a shop. And had it have known this it 
wouldnt have insured Mr P. So the matter has been passed to me for review.
What I provisionally decided  and why
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments in looking to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint I made a few further enquiries and 
initially said that I wasn't minded to uphold this complaint. I highlighted that this was my 
provisional view and said that my position may change depending on any further 
representations or evidence I received. In summary, I said;
Premier has shown it wouldnt have insured Mr P had it have been aware that the risk 
address was commercial premises and not a residential property. So I need to consider 
whether Mr P made it aware of this and he suggests he did. Unfortunately, there isnt any 
calls or information available from the time of application or renewal so the only information 
we have to go on is the details sent direct to Mr P.
The statement of fact that was sent to Mr P gives an overview of the cover provided. And it 
clearly shows the risk address as a house or bungalow as opposed to a shop. On balance I 
think this information most likely came from Mr P or whoever took cover out on his behalf. 
Even if this information didnt come from Mr P or was misinterpreted somehow, Mr P still had 
a duty to tell his insurer if the details werent correct. And Mr Ps failure to tell Premier 
that the risk address was a shop is capable of being a misrepresentation as Premier 
has highlighted.Furthermore, Premier wouldnt have covered Mr Ps home address (as this isnt a 
risk address it is prepared to consider) had it have been aware that the van was kept at 
their home address overnight. And from the information before me Im satisfied Mr P mainly 
kept his van at his home address which shouldve been used to insure the van. I say this as 
generally the van was returned to the home address at night and was being returned to the 
home address at the time of the accident. Ive asked Mr P a few further questions about his 
general use of his van while this matter has been with me for consideration, but he hasnt 
responded. But he is free to send any further information he wants me to consider now.
Ultimately, Mr P had a duty as a commercial customer to make a fair representation of the 
risk to his insurer. And from what Ive outlined above I dont think he did. As such, Premier 
has shown it wouldve acted differently if Mr P had have made a fair representation. It has 
shown that it wouldnt have insured Mr P and so I dont think it has acted unreasonably in 
avoiding Mr Ps policy and refusing to consider the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not changing my 
position.
As neither side has provided any additional comment or information for me to consider I 
don't propose to change my view or to rehearse the arguments again. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman