DRN-2086991
The complaint
 This complaint is about a buy-to-let mortgage Mrs G holds with The Mortgage Business plc 
(TMB). Shes unhappy that TMB started possession proceedings (causing her tenants to 
move out) when payments she made to try and clear arrears on the account were credited to 
her husbands buy-to-let mortgage account instead of hers. The possession proceedings 
have been stayed whilst we have considered the complaint. 
Mrs G is represented in the complaint by her husband, Mr G; shes also told us that Mr G 
manages the mortgage account for her; that makes him her agent in that respect. Although 
the events surrounding the complaint (and any solution to it) have, and will, impact on Mr Gs 
mortgage account, his account is not  and cannot be  part of this complaint. 
If Mr G wishes to complain about how his mortgage has been (or will be) affected, hell need 
to raise that separately, with TMB first, and then with us if need be. Where I refer to Mr Gs 
mortgage, its for context only, and where I refer to Mr Gs possible acts and/or omissions, 
its in his capacity as Mrs Gs agent.
 
What happened
 In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so and rounding the numbers involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral. Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mrs G when my decision is 
published.
Mrs G has had the mortgage since 2005, but the events giving rise to the complaint start at 
the beginning of 2019. Mrs G had been in arrears for some time and needed to make 
payments to her account to get the arrears down. Over the next few months, a little over 
£10,000 was paid to TMB by faster payment, from a current account operated by Mr G. But 
in the summer of 2019, TMB started its recovery process, saying no payments had been 
paid to Mrs Gs mortgage since early 2016. 
The recovery process got as far as formal possession proceedings commencing in early 
2020, with both parties providing witness statements to the court. Part of the litigation 
process involved TMB notifying the occupants of the mortgaged property of its intentions, 
prompting them to leave. 
In the meantime, Mrs G had raised a complaint with TMB, providing evidence of payments 
made from Mr Gs current account. TMB rejected the complaint, saying it hadnt done 
anything wrong so couldnt offer any solutions. It also said it was limited to what it could say 
about Mr Gs account for data protection reasons.
The complaint came to us, and the court proceedings have been on hold whilst we looked at 
it. The underlying problem was that, although the faster payments had quoted Mrs Gs 
mortgage account number in the reference field, the sort code and account number quoted 
as the destination for the payments were those associated with Mr Gs mortgage. TMBs 
system prioritised the sort code and account number over the reference, so the payments 
went to Mr Gs mortgage account.
Our investigator concluded that both parties had contributed to the problem; Mrs G by 
making the payments wrongly (and from Mr Gs current account rather than one of her own) 
to begin with and TMB by accepting the payments into Mr Gs mortgage account rather than 
returning them. To settle the matter, the investigator proposed the following compromise 
whereby TMB would: 
move the incorrectly-placed payments from Mr Gs to Mrs Gs account;
rework Mrs Gs mortgage on the basis the incorrectly-placed payments had been 
credited when originally made;
remove any interest and/or charges debited to the account because the payments 
werent credited when originally made;
refund any litigation costs debited after July 2019, when Mrs G first queried things; 
provide a written update of the account status and future payments following the above 
adjustments; and
pay Mrs G £500 compensation for her time and trouble.
In the event Mrs Gs account was still in arrears following implementation of the settlement, 
she and TMB would need to agree a mutually-acceptable solution going forward. If that 
didnt happen, then TMB would still have the right to revert to litigation.
The investigator considered, but ruled out, compensating Mrs G for loss of rent following the 
departure of the tenants; partly because the tenants could have left with a months notice 
and partly because of Mrs Gs contribution to the situation. The investigator also ruled out 
any consideration of how the proposed settlement might impact on Mr G, given this wasnt 
his complaint, but suggested he and the business work things out between them.
TMB agreed with the investigators proposals, but Mr G, on Mrs Gs behalf, asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for review. He reiterated in some detail what he 
considered as TMBs regulatory failings, arguing that they justified more needing to be done 
to remedy the situation. The further steps Mr G argued for included, but werent restricted to:
the payments to be credited to Mrs Gs mortgage without being removed from his; and
redress for the lost rent because TMB could have put everything right before starting the 
possession process that caused the tenants to move out.
Mr G also posed a number of hypothetical questions about how TMB would have remedied 
matters if the account to which the payments had been credited had belonged to someone 
unconnected to Mrs G, had already been repaid or transferred to another lender. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Mr Gs hypothetical questions are easily answered. We dont uphold complaints and/or 
award compensation for something that might have happened but didnt.
Its sometimes easy for those with a stake in a complaint to fall into the trap of thinking that 
complaint resolution is solely about finding fault and/or attributing blame. But there can often 
be more (or less) to it than that. There are occasions where its less about deciding who did 
or didnt get things wrong and more about what will set things right. 
To put it another way, sometimes the outcome of a complaint is simply about finding a fair 
resolution. In my view this is one of those instances, not least because its apparent to me 
that both parties have contributed in pretty much equal measure to the situation as it now 
stands. 
In that context, it doesnt really matter that one party is regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority and one is not. This a buy-to-let mortgage; Mrs G is carrying out her own 
commercial enterprise as a landlord, meaning she (and Mr G as her agent) have a duty to 
act in the best interests of that enterprise. That includes mitigating the adverse effect of 
wrongdoing by others. 
Getting back to my underlying point about finding a fair solution, Im satisfied our investigator 
has done that, and that no further steps are necessary to resolve this complaint beyond 
those she has recommended. I said earlier that Mr Gs mortgage account isnt part of this 
complaint, but insofar as he has argued for it to remain untouched by the settlement of his 
wifes complaint, I consider it appropriate to comment. 
Mr Gs position is that TMB should restore the benefit Mrs G should have received but didnt 
as a result of the events at the heart of the complaint, at the same time as arguing he should 
keep the benefit that he shouldnt have received and did. My finding is very simple; there are 
no circumstances under which it could be considered fair or reasonable for Mrs G and Mr G 
to benefit from the payments that were clearly intended for credit of her mortgage account.
That point leads neatly on to my next finding, on Mr Gs argument that TMB neednt have 
started the possession proceedings (thus losing Mrs G her tenants). If it had been more alert 
to what was going on and put Mrs G in the picture sooner, remedial action could have been 
taken. That arguments fine as far as it goes but it only goes so far; not least because it 
overlooks Mrs Gs afore-mentioned duty (shared by Mr G as her agent) to act in the best 
interests of her commercial enterprise.
Mr G says it wasnt up to Mrs G to check the payments had reached her account. I dont 
agree; in my view, a prudent business person making payments to reduce significant arrears on their business debt should check the payments have arrived safely; it goes to the duty to 
mitigate. 
But putting even that aside, once it became evident that the payments hadnt been credited 
to Mrs Gs account, I cant rule out the possibility that Mrs G and/or Mr G as her agent might 
have had some suspicion of which account they had been credited to. I cant be sure when 
they would or could have known, but as soon as they did, again the duty to mitigate Mrs Gs 
position required Mr G, as her agent, to authorise the immediate switch of the payments to 
her account. Even if that had happened, the figures Ive seen suggest Mrs Gs account 
would still have been in arrears, so litigation might have remained a possibility.
The investigators proposed settlement is a good idea, not because it remedies errors and 
omissions by both parties, but because it is a fair and reasonable resolution that both parties 
should be able to live with in a spirit of compromise.
When youre as close to a difficult situation as Mrs G has been for so long here, its a natural 
subjective reaction to want to pursue every individual issue with vigour. But I have a different 
remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means stepping back from 
the fine detail and taking an overview. It also means that Im not required to provide answers 
to every specific question that comes up, if I dont consider doing so will affect the overall 
outcome.
Mrs G doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if she doesnt, then neither she nor TMB 
will be bound by my final decision, and TMB wont be required to implement any part of the 
proposed settlement. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, 
Mrs Gs right to take legal action against TMB over the subject matter of this complaint wont 
have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. She wouldnt necessarily have to initiate 
court proceedings of her own to do that. 
In the event TMB resumes possession proceedings, Mrs G and/or Mr G as her agent can, if 
they wish, ask the court to consider all of the arguments theyve presented here as part of 
her defence. There would then be an opportunity for the court to decide whether, in all those 
circumstances, it would be fair to give possession of the mortgaged property to TMB
.
My final decision
  My final decision is that this complaint should fairly be resolved by The Mortgage Business 
Plc:
moving the incorrectly-placed payments from Mr Gs to Mrs Gs account;
reworking Mrs Gs mortgage on the basis the incorrectly-placed payments had been 
credited when originally made;
removing any interest and/or charges debited to the account because the payments 
werent credited when originally made;
refunding any litigation costs debited after July 2019, when Mrs G first queried things; 
providing a written update of the account status and future payments following the above 
adjustments; and
paying Mrs G £500 compensation for her time and trouble.
I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021. Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman