DRN-2046186
The complaint
In accordance with our normal practice Ill refer to the complainants as Mr and Mrs V. 
They say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them mortgage Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI) cover which they neither agreed to or wanted. They say they 
didnt even know they had such a policy
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mr and Mrs V with an answer about this 
complaint. They said that they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs V disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided 
not to uphold this complaint.
I certainly dont doubt Mr and Mrs V may genuinely and honestly believe now that the PPI 
was mis-sold to them. However, Im sure they will also recognise that the sale, being in 
2001, was 19 years ago. Its therefore obviously possible they may not remember everything 
that took place.
It looks like the mortgage and PPI were probably arranged through an intermediary adviser 
and transferred across to Halifax at some point to consider. And I see Mr and Mrs V were 
written to, at their address, in October 2001. The letter set out what had been discussed as 
regards their mortgage application and that theyd been told about PPI.
Obviously, this alone doesnt prove for sure that they agreed to buy cover like this, but I think 
it strongly implies that they at least discussed mortgage protection and would have known 
the option to have this type of protection was available. I also think its reasonable to say that 
as the sale is from such a long time ago, some documents from the sale may not have 
survived this long. Businesses dont have to keep records indefinitely.
I also think the insurers would have sent Mr and Mrs V a policy schedule. Theres no dispute 
that PPI was sold, only that Mr and Mrs V didnt know about it. But I find it unlikely that 
having been sold the cover, the insurers (a separate part of the business) would have 
deliberately avoided sending out key policy confirmation.
However, most compellingly, Halifax has shown us screenshots from its computer system 
which show a claim for unemployment was made in 2005. All these things, taken together, 
show its almost certain that Mr and Mrs V did at some point know the PPI existed and was 
protecting their mortgage. 
I think theres solid evidence they consented to the policy.
Next, I looked to see if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs V because Halifax probably 
recommended this to them as part of an advised sale. I think it was suitable.
I say this because they specifically chose the cover only for Mr V. He seems to have been 
eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these 
policies. He may well already have had some sickness protection with his job although this 
looks like it would have been relatively moderate cover. 
So, Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt suitable for them. I think the 
mortgage would have been a significant and long-term financial commitment and secured 
against their home and the consequences of not being able to make the repayments could 
have been serious. The PPI cover, on the other hand, was designed to pay a substantial 
monthly sum for up to 24 months if theyd needed to claim. In my view Halifax putting 
forward a recommendation to have cover like this wasnt in itself unfair.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. As I 
say, we no longer have the actual paperwork now in respect of Mr and Mrs V, but I think its 
more likely they would have known what the cover was costing and what elements of 
insurance they had agreed to. Overall, I think they probably had enough information on 
which to make an informed choice.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs V. But these events are from a long time ago and to 
uphold their complaint Id need to think it was more likely they never gave their consent or 
that there were other flaws in the sale. I simply dont have that evidence and I think its 
much more likely they tailored the cover to suit their needs of the time and would have had 
a lot of documentation showing this. They would also have been able to see the £10.72 
(variable) leaving their account each month.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint and I dont direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman