The complaint  
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the delay in repairing a van insured under their Motor  
Insurance policy with Aviva Insurance Limited. Theyve also complained about the fact the  
repairs were not completed to an acceptable standard and the impact this and the delay has  
had on Mr Hs business.  
What happened  
Mr and Mrs Hs van was damaged in an accident in July 2022. They made a claim under  
their policy and agreed the van could be repaired by one of Avivas approved repairers, who  
I will refer to as E. Mr H took the van to E for repair on 2 August 2022. Hes said he was told  
the repairs would tak e three weeks. Mr H has said he checked with E for an update after  
around three weeks and was told they were waiting for a part. Mr H has said that at the  
beginning of September 2022 he was then told that the repairs had been completed and he  
could collect  his van. Only to then be contacted and told the van wasnt ready, as it needed a  
re-spray. He has further explained, he was then contacted and told it would be ready for  
collection on 27 September 2022. When he went to collect the van Mr H wasnt happy wi th 
the standard of the repairs and raised some issues with the manager at E. The manager  
said theyd sort the problems and the van would be ready by the end of the week. Mr H has  
said he then went back to collect his van on 30 September 2022. And that when  he did he  
noticed E had not replaced the inner door seal and driver -side wind deflector and that the  
rear bumper was not aligned. E told him it would let him know as soon as the missing parts  
were in and sort the issues out once they were. E also pointed out other bits it had rectified,  
but Mr H has explained it was an overcast day and he could not assess the standard of the  
work properly because of this. So he left with his van, but wasnt satisfied with it.  
Mr and Mrs H complained to Aviva about the prob lems theyd had at the beginning of  
October 2022. And it issued a final response letter addressing their complaint about the  
delays and offered £125 in compensation for the poor service theyd received. But Mr H has  
said they never actually received this c ompensation. Mr H has said about three weeks later  
when he was cleaning the van he noticed the following further defects with the work carried  
out by E:  
On the side panel to the van (drivers side) a line in the paint work is visible that looks
like a midway finish line during spraying.
On parts of the respray there are parts that look like they were over sprayed, which
gives the appearance of orange peel.
Mr H has said that both these faults can only be seen at certain angles when you look a t 
the van, and in good light conditions. Its difficult to see this in a photo as you mostly get  
a reflection.  
On the roof of the van there is a row of orange dots which  look like rust, which has
been painted over with a clear coat. This appears to Mr H to be where E joined the
new panel to the roof of the van. Mr H thinks this could give rise to a serious issue of
corrosion in the future.
DRN-4473535 There is also a very unfinishe d (bumpy) join on the inside lip along the top of the van.  
In Mr Hs opinion this should have been sanded and filled before being sprayed.  
 There is over -spray on the rear door of the van from the work E has done giving a flat  
finish to part of the door.  
 
Mr H has said he went back to E at the end of October 2022. At this time the office staff said  
no-one was available, but the manager would contact him by the following Wednesday.  
However, he didnt hear anything further from E. So, he complained to Aviva a bout the  
abovementioned issues in December 2022. And it was only when he and Mrs H submitted  
their complaint to us in January 2023 that they received a further letter from Aviva offering a  
further £125 in compensation. And it seems from what Aviva has said  that it checked with E  
and was told it had rectified any issues with the repairs. And Avivas offer of £125 was  
compensation for the further problems Mr E had experienced.  
 
One of our investigators then considered Mr Es complaint. In her first view on it she said  
Aviva should pay a further £150 in compensation for the poor service provided to Mr and  
Mrs H. This was on the basis that Aviva had said the problems with the repairs to Mr Hs van  
had been rectified. Mrs H responded to the investigators view and pointed out the repairs  
hadnt been rectified. The investigator asked Mr and Mrs H to explain why  Mr H hadnt taken  
the van back to E for the rectification work to be carried out. She also asked why he hadnt  
obtained a quote for it. Mr H replied to say he hadnt been able to get a quote and asked for  
a couple more weeks to obtain this.  
 
The investigat or then issued a second view on the complaint in which she said Aviva should  
still pay a further £75 in compensation for the initial delays with the repairs. She also said  
Mr H should provide two quotes for the work required to rectify the poor repairs by E and that  
Aviva should provide a cash settlement to him based on these estimates to enable him to  
have this work carried out. And she said the £125 Aviva had offered in compensation for the  
issues with the repairs was reasonable.  
 
Mr H queried why the inve stigator had done this when hed asked for an extension to provide  
a quote for the work. She explained she had decided not to provide an extension and that  
Mr H providing her with a quote wouldnt have altered her opinion.  
 
Mr H then queried where he should  send the two quotes needed and pointed out that if his  
van went in for rectification work hed need a replacement van so he could continue to work.  
He also asked how long he had to provide the quotes. He also queried why the investigator  
had suggested a l ower payment in compensation for the distress and inconvenience  
resulting from the issues with the repairs.  
 
The investigator responded to say that she had said the amount Aviva had offered for the  
distress and inconvenience of the issues with the repairs w as reasonable, as she had found  
out that Mr H hadnt been without his van while the rectification work was carried out. And  
she said she couldnt comment on the inconvenience he might experience when this did  
happen. She also explained that Mr H would have  to provide two quotes in a reasonable  
time and that if he did hire a replacement van hed need to discuss the cost directly with  
Aviva.  
 
Aviva queried the issues with the repairs and asked for evidence of them. The investigator  
sent this to them. It then suggested after an exchange of emails with the investigator that it  
should send an engineer to inspect Mr Hs van at his home address and arrange for the  
rectification work to be carried out at another repairer. It also agreed to  pay the further £75 in  
compensation for distress and inconvenience in relation to the repair issues.  
 
 The investigator put this offer to Mr H. And she explained that if the engineer found the  
repairs to be of a poor standard Mr H would need to obtain two q uotes for the work required  
for Aviva to consider. And she asked Mr H whether he and Mrs H would accept Avivas offer.  
Mr H came back to say that he thought Aviva should compensate him for the time he was  
unable to work while he and Mrs H were trying to re solve matters with it. He also said hed  
need a hire van while his van was in for any rectification work to be carried out, as he  
couldnt work without a van.  
 
As Mr and Mrs H didnt accept Avivas revised offer the investigator told them shed put their  
complaint forward for consideration by an ombudsman.  
 
I issued a provisional decision on 7 November 2023, in which I set out what Id provisionally  
decided and why as follows:  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
I should say at the outset that I think Aviva and E  on its behalf - have handled the  
problems with the repairs to Mr and Mrs Hs van very poorly. When Mr H said he wasnt  
happy with the standard of the r epairs either Avivas handler didnt check properly whether  
the problems had been rectified or E told them they had when this wasnt the case. Either  
way Aviva offered Mr and Mrs H compensation instead of arranging for their vehicle to be  
inspected to dete rmine whether the repairs had been carried out to a satisfactory standard.  
And it resulted in Aviva giving us the impression the problems with the repairs had been  
rectified.  
 
Ive seen photographs of Mr and Mrs Hs van following the repairs by E, which hav e also  
been sent to Aviva, and it seems obvious to me from these and what Mr H has said that the  
repairs to his van werent carried out to a satisfactory standard. And we are now well over a  
year on from when his van went in for repair. Nonetheless, I do t hink Aviva should have the  
chance to arrange for an inspection of the repairs by an independent motor engineer (IME),  
which it should pay for. And it should then arrange and pay for any rectification work the IME  
says is required. This inspection should take place at Mr Hs home at a time that is  
convenient for him and does not impact his work. If this isnt possible and Mr and Mrs Hs  
van needs to go to a repairers for the inspection to take place, Aviva should provide Mr and  
Mrs H with a replacement van the same size as their van whilst this happens and pay for it.  
If, as I suspect will be the case, further work is requi red to Mr and Mrs Hs van to rectify poor  
repairs carried out by E, Aviva should arrange for this to be carried out at another one of its  
approved repairers; not at E. And it should provide Mr and Mrs H with a replacement van the  
same size as their van for  the duration of the repairs and pay for this.  
 
I take Mr Hs point that having to try and sort things out with Aviva must have impacted on  
his work. And he clearly lost a significant amount of time taking the van back to E or going  
there only to find it wa snt ready. However, it is hard to quantify what Mr H lost in income as  
a result of this without analysing his accounts and bank statements. And, even then, it would  
be hard to know exactly what the impact was on his income. So, I think it is more appropri ate 
for him and Mrs H to receive compensation for the distress and inconvenience they have  
experienced as a result of the delays they suffered initially with the repairs and the problems  
they had after this trying to sort things out with Aviva and E. I app reciate Aviva has now  
agreed to pay £400 in total in compensation. But, bearing in mind the impact it all would  
have had on Mr H and his business, I dont think this is enough. I think a reasonable amount  
is £700 in total. This means Aviva will  need to pay Mr and Mrs H £700 if it hasnt paid  
anything already or this amount less what it has paid them already.  
 
 I gave both parties until 21 November 2023 to provide further comments and evidence in  
response to my provisional decision.  
 
Mr H responded to say he is happy for Aviva to send out an engineer to do an IME, but hed  
like to provide estimates for the repairs required and have them carried out by a repairer of  
his choice.  
 
Aviva came back to say it accepted my provisional decision. And I asked it  if it was happy for  
Mr H to obtain estimates and use a repairer of his choice. It said it was, that he only needed  
to provide one estimate and that it would need to be approved by its engineer before any  
work was started.  
 
What Ive decided  and why  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of thi s complaint.  
 
As  in essence  both parties agree with my provisional decision, I see no reason to alter  
the conclusions I reached in it. Except in respect of how any necessary rectification work  
identified by the IME to Mr and Mrs Hs van should be comple ted. Instead of Aviva arranging  
for one of its approved repairers to do this work, Mr and Mrs H should provide an estimate  
from a repairer of their choice and send this to Aviva for its engineer to approve. The repairer  
can then carry out the work and Aviv a can pay what it costs. Aviva will still need to provide  
Mr and Mrs H with a suitable replacement van for any time they are without their van due to  
the IME and for any rectification work/repairs.  
 
Putting things right  
 
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Mr and  
Mrs Hs complaint and make Aviva Insurance Limited do the following:  
 
 Arrange for an inspection of Mr and Mrs Hs van by an IME and for them to provide a  
report. Aviva must pay for this. This should t ake place at their home at a convenient 
time for Mr H, which doesnt impact his business. Or, if this is not possible, it should 
take place at one of Avivas approved repairers (not E). If the latter happens Aviva 
must  provide Mr and Mrs H with a replaceme nt van the same size as their van and 
pay for  it for the period they are without their van.  
 
 If the IME decides the repairs to Mr and Mrs Hs van were carried out to an  
unacceptable standard and rectification work is required, Aviva must allow Mr and 
Mrs H to obtain an estimate from a repairer of their choice for this and send this to it 
for approval by its engineer. Once the engineer has approved the estimate, Mr and 
Mrs H  should be allowed to have the repairer carry out the work. And Aviva should 
then pa y for it. While the work is being completed Aviva should provide Mr and Mrs H 
with a  replacement van the same size as their van and pay for it.  
 
 Pay Mr and Mrs H a total of £700 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. It  
can deduct any compensation it has already paid them from this.  
 
My final decision  
 
I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about Aviva  Insurance Limited and order it  to do what Ive  
set out above in the Putting things right section.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to  
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.  
 
 
 
 
 
Robert Short  
Ombudsman  