DRN-3267737
The complaint
Mr G complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA hasnt provided the service it should 
have in regard to issues with his accounts. 
What happened
Mr G says he has had two PayPal accounts for several years which he uses for buying and 
selling through an online auction site. He says the online auction site has taken over the 
payment accounts of its sellers with money being sent to his bank. Therefore, funds are no 
longer built up in his PayPal accounts. Mr G says he has tried to transfer money from his 
bank to his PayPal accounts, but this isnt working. He says he has asked for checks to be 
carried out but doesnt get a response.
PayPal said that it reviewed Mr Gs account, and this showed that he set up a direct debit 
with his bank in December 2010. It said that Mr G changed his payment processor to the 
online auction sites processor and so wasnt using PayPal as often, but it noted the direct 
debit hadnt been cancelled and a payment came from his bank account in November 2021. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She noted that Mr Gs account was active and 
couldnt see there was an issue with the payment procedure that PayPal had in place for his 
account. 
Mr G didnt agree with our investigators view. He said his complaint was about the PayPal 
system instructions for him to transfer money from his bank account to Paypal not working 
not about how PayPal processed a payment. He said that he had two accounts that he 
couldnt sign into as he didnt get the mobile verification code on his phone and that the 
helplines previously accessed to explain how to transfer money from his bank to his PayPal 
accounts didnt work. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see the issues Mr G has experienced with his PayPal accounts have caused him 
inconvenience and distress. However, for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be 
satisfied that PayPal had done something wrong. 
In his response to our investigators view, Mr G said that he wasnt able to sign-in to his 
accounts. Since then he has confirmed that he has been able to sign-in to his accounts 
using mobile security verification. Therefore, I havent considered this issue any further. 
PayPal has confirmed that both of Mr Gs accounts have his bank details registered and I 
note its comments about the direct debit being in place on an account and payment being 
made in November 2021. Therefore, I do not find that I have anything to suggest that Mr Gs 
payment details are set up incorrectly and accept that his banks details are registered to his 
accounts.
The outstanding issue is in regard to the issues Mr G has had in trying to add funds to his 
accounts. PayPal responded to our information request in May 2022 saying that its records 
showed Mr G had logged on to his account and passed its authentication, but they didnt 
show that he had tried to add funds. Mr G has said on several occasions he has been trying 
to add funds. In response to the request for screenshots of the issues he sent screenshots 
showing the process for adding funds and evidence that he has been asking questions about 
this (dates in September and November). However, there is limited information on the 
screenshots and based on these I cannot conclude that PayPal has done anything wrong in 
the operation of Mr Gs accounts.
On balance, while I do not underestimate the frustration Mr G has been caused by this issue 
and I appreciate that he has been trying to add funds to his accounts, I do not find I have 
evidence to show that PayPals systems are set up incorrectly for Mr Gs accounts or that it 
has done anything wrong in the process of dealing with Mr Gs accounts. Therefore, while I 
know Mr G will be disappointed by this, I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman