DRN-2378128
The complaint
Ms C says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms C bought the policy in 2004 some time after she took out a credit card with Barclaycard. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Cs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below:
I understand Ms C filled in a form to say she was interested in taking out a credit 
card, and that Barclaycard then contacted her by phone to complete the full 
application. Barclaycard says Ms C chose not to take the PPI at that point, but that 
the policy was sold during a subsequent phone call between Ms C and the bank. 
From what we know about Barclaycards phone sales at the time, on balance I think  
the bank wouldve made Ms C aware the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it. 
Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Ms C, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Even though Ms C 
says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer, the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to those benefits and wouldve been useful to her if she couldnt work.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But its unlikely Ms C would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman