DRN-4490428
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about how British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with a 
claim under a home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs W contacted British Gas when she had an issue with her central heating. An engineer 
visited and found the pump was the wrong way round, so he replaced it and put the pump 
the right way round. However, the issue remained because the pipework was the wrong way 
round and needed to be fixed. 
Mrs W complained because she said British Gas had agreed to fix the pipework under the 
policy and had then gone back on this. When British Gas replied, it explained what its 
engineers had done. It also said it had sent the wrong type of engineer, but that its engineers 
had offered to quote for work to deal with issues with the system that werent covered by the 
policy. However, it said it didnt offer to do the work for free. British Gas offered £60 
compensation for the inconvenience caused to Mrs W.
When Mrs W complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He 
said British Gas didnt need to deal with the pipework under the policy. However, he said 
British Gas caused Mrs W distress, upset and worry because of how it handled the claim, 
including misadvising her about what was covered, the loss of expectation and the multiple 
engineer visits. He said British Gas should pay an additional £300 compensation.
Both Mrs W and British Gas disagreed with the outcome, so the complaint was referred to 
me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 2 November 2023. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I wasnt planning to say British Gas needed to do anything 
further. I said:
Mrs W had a HomeCare policy with British Gas from January 2022 to January 2023. Shortly 
before the policy was due to expire, Mrs W reported an issue with her central heating. An 
engineer visit was arranged for after the policy expiry date. Mrs W didnt renew the policy at 
that time.
The engineer visited and said a new pump was required and that it had been fitted the wrong 
way round. The engineer returned about a week later and fitted the pump the right way 
round. The same day, the heating started to make loud noises. So, Mrs W contacted British 
Gas and another engineer visited, who said he thought there was a blockage in the pipes. 
Another engineer visited the following day, who said the flow and reverse pipes were round 
the wrong way. Im aware Mrs W has said it was her daughters boyfriend who thought the 
pipes were round the wrong way and it was only when she suggested this to the engineers 
that it was identified as the issue.
Mrs W spoke to British Gas about her concerns, including that she thought the engineers 
should have identified the issue earlier and that she was concerned British Gas wouldnt 
deal with the issue by saying it was pre-existing. Mrs W told this service British Gas had 
assured her it would carry out the repair under the policy.
Ive listened to the phone calls. Mrs W explained that she didnt think it should have taken 
four visits for an engineer to find that the pipework was around the wrong way. She said the 
engineer told her dealing with the pipework was an upgrade because she was out of 
contract. Mrs W disagreed with this because she was in contract when she made her first 
call. A bit later in the call, Mrs W said the engineer told her he was going to email heating 
upgrades to refer it to them. She asked British Gas if this was correct. The call handler said it 
wasnt because upgrades was for work that was chargeable. Mrs W said the engineer 
shouldnt have done that and this could have been resolved earlier. Later in the call, Mrs W 
said she didnt want British Gas now to say the issue was pre-existing so she had to pay. 
The call handler said she would set up a new policy and would honour the repair because 
the records showed Mrs W had cover in place when she first reported the problem.
British Gas later told Mrs W it wouldnt carry out work on the pipes under the policy because 
it was a pre-existing issue. So, Ive thought about this. During the phone call, from what I 
heard, the discussion about the issue being pre-existing related to the original policy having 
expired and there now not being any cover in place. Mrs W said the engineer told her this 
was why the work was an upgrade, which meant it was chargeable. So, it was in this context 
that the call handler said British Gas would honour the repair, which was because the 
problem had been reported before the original policy expired. Im aware Mrs W phoned 
British Gas before the next engineer was due to visit and the call handler confirmed the 
repair would be honoured, but she said this based on the call notes from the previous call 
and was confirming what had previously been discussed.
When British Gas later said the issue was pre-existing and therefore chargeable, this was in 
a different context. It wasnt saying the issue was chargeable because it happened after the 
original policy expired. It was because the issue pre-dated any involvement by British Gas 
and went back to when the pipes were originally installed, which I understand was about 20 
years ago. The policy didnt cover faults or design faults that existed when a consumer first 
took out the product. The issue with the pipework existed before the policy was first taken 
out in January 2022.
Im aware that during the phone call Mrs W also said British Gas had fitted the pump that 
became faulty, which meant it fitted it to the pipework that was later found to be the wrong 
way around. When Mrs W complained, British Gas checked its records and couldnt find 
evidence she had a HomeCare policy before January 2022 or evidence it had fitted the 
pump. I also asked Mrs W if she could provide evidence that British Gas had fitted the pump, 
but she was unable to do so. So, based on what Ive currently seen, I dont think theres 
evidence to show British Gas fitted the pump and I havent considered any further issues 
around that. The issue with the pipework predated any involvement by British Gas so it 
wasnt covered by the policy. I think it was reasonable for British Gas to say any work was 
therefore an upgrade and chargeable.
Ive also thought about what Mrs W said she was told by the engineer, which was that it was 
an upgrade because the policy had expired. British Gas records of the visit are brief. They 
recorded that Mrs W had been advised an upgrade was required which had been declined 
and that the flow and reverse were around the wrong way. So, I think the engineer said an 
upgrade was required. I cant say for certain whether he said this was because the policy 
had expired and that was the only reason he gave. But, even if that was what happened, I 
dont think this meant British Gas was required to deal with the pipes under the policy. When 
British Gas reviewed the full circumstances of what had happened, including whether it had 
fitted the original pump, it identified that the pipes werent something covered by the policy 
and advised Mrs W of this.Mrs W was also concerned by the number of engineers who visited, including the wrong type 
of engineer, and that even when the pipes were found to be the issue, it was because Mrs W 
had suggested this. I can understand Mrs W might have expected the issue to be found 
sooner and for it to send appropriate engineers. However, I think the £60 British Gas offered 
was reasonable in the circumstances to address the service issues. 
Ive also thought about the wider circumstances of this complaint and whether any additional 
compensation is required. I currently think the amount British Gas offered was sufficient to 
cover any loss of expectation around British Gas fixing the pipework free of charge, as I think 
when it confirmed it would do this, it did so based on the information available at the time. 
But when this was looked into further and the full circumstances were investigated, it was 
found there wasnt cover under the policy. 
As a result, I currently intend to require British Gas to pay the £60 it previously offered Mrs 
W because its my understanding that it didnt pay the money as Mrs W declined it. If British 
Gas has already paid this, I dont intend to require it to do anything further in relation to this 
complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 30 November 2023. 
British Gas said it didnt have any further evidence or comments.
Mrs W replied and, in summary, said:
My decision seemed to be based around it being a pre-existing issue that was excluded 
under the original cover. 
She now understood the pre-existing plumbing work wasnt part of the original cover. 
Initially, she wasnt aware of the pre-existing problem and relied on the expertise of 
British Gas engineers. She described previous work British Gas had carried out and that 
it hadnt picked up on the issue with the pipework at that time.
In January 2023, the problem continued to be misdiagnosed on several occasions and 
the engineers poor workmanship, by reversing the pump and over-riding the boiler alert 
code, caused hot water to flood out in her loft and caused a bigger problem by doing so. 
The engineers failed to diagnose the problem and carried out several failed repairs 
before concluding the pipes were the wrong way round and that it was a pre-existing 
problem.
In my provisional decision, I referred to this. In the call recording, it was described as a 
misdiagnosis and that was why it was logged as a non-chargeable repair/ recall. Mrs W 
also thought British Gas had mentioned poor workmanship/ service.
She had researched consumer law, including where services werent supplied within a 
reasonable time, at a reasonable charge or to a reasonable standard. She asked why 
her claim didnt fall within this.
Mrs W also provided recordings of two phone calls she had with British Gas.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I remain of the view that British Gas response to the claim and complaint 
was reasonable. As part of this, Ive considered the points Mrs W raised in response to my 
provisional decision.
I dont think its in dispute that British Gas didnt identify the issue with the pump during its 
earlier visits. Mrs W spoke to British Gas and explained what had happened. She said an 
engineer had told her the required work was an upgrade because she was out of contract. 
British Gas call handler accepted what Mrs W said and explained what would happen, which 
was that British Gas would honour the work. This was because the records showed she had 
cover in place when she first reported the problem. During that call, any discussion of a 
misdiagnosis was in the context of there being cover in place for the issue identified.
But Mrs W didnt have cover in place for the issues with the pipes and the pump. The policy 
didnt cover pre-existing issues. So, even if the issue with the pump had been found before 
the policy expired in January 2023, it still wouldnt have been covered. However, it was only 
when British Gas was able to investigate the full details of the claim that it became clear the 
issue wasnt one the policy covered.
Mrs W has also referred to rights under consumer law, which she summarised as:
In the case of services which are supplied to [a] consumer but not within a reasonable time, 
at a reasonable charge, or to a reasonable standard, consumers have the options of:
The right to have the services repeated; 
The right to a price reduction. 
Businesses cannot exclude their liability for breach of the requirements for goods and 
services to be of satisfactory quality, or fit for purpose; that they match a sample or model 
shown; or for correct installation of goods. Any businesses attempting to avoid their liability 
cannot do so in law.
British Gas was required to provide a service as described in its terms and conditions. It sent 
several engineers to try and diagnose the issue. So, it did repeat the service. When it 
identified that the issues with the pipework and pump predated any involvement by British 
Gas, this meant there wasnt a service available under the policy. British Gas wasnt required 
to provide a service that wasnt described in its terms and conditions. The terms and 
conditions specifically excluded pre-existing issues.
Im aware British Gas could have potentially diagnosed the issue earlier. Although, ideally, 
any claim will require only one engineer visit, it isnt uncommon for engineers to have to visit 
more than once to make a correct diagnosis. I think its reasonable to expect an engineer to 
look for the most likely causes first. I also wouldnt expect an engineer to search for every 
possible cause where they think they have identified what the problem is. Its my 
understanding that this was an unusual issue and not one an engineer would normally 
expect to find.
British Gas also offered compensation for the issues it identified with its service. I remain of 
the view that the compensation offered by British Gas was reasonable in the circumstances 
to address the service issues. As Mrs W originally declined the compensation and I havent 
received confirmation it was paid, I require British Gas to pay the £60 compensation it 
previously offered.
Mrs W also provided a call recording between her and British Gas about water running down 
her walls following an engineers visit. I listened to the call, but I didnt see evidence this was 
part of the complaint made to British Gas at the time. So, Im unable to comment on it.Putting things right
British Gas should pay Mrs W the £60 compensation it previously offered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs W the £60 compensation it previously 
offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman