DRN-3922026
The complaint
Mr K complains that Aon UK Limited (Aon) failed to provide important information when
making a change to his motor insurance policy, resulting in a significant financial cost.
What happened
Mr K contacted Aon in January 2022 to add another car to an existing policy it administered.
This policy was part of a scheme relating to Mr Ks previous employer where he was a
partner. The terms of the policy required a specific alarm system to be fitted to the new car.
Mr K arranged for this system to be fitted at a cost of £1,000.
Shortly after the new car was added to the policy Mr K says he was asked a question by Aon
about his current work. He confirmed he was now self-employed. Aon then told him he
couldnt use this scheme going forward and the policy would cease at the end of August
2022.
Mr K didnt think this was fair as he didnt know the rules had changed until after he had paid
for the alarm system required by the policy.
Aon says all relevant customers, including Mr K were sent an email on 2 February 2022
reconfirming the eligibility of the scheme. It says its partially upholding his complaint as he
may not have received updates from his previous employer. But it says it sent Mr K
documents in August 2021 and in January 2022 confirming the requirements of the scheme.
As he was no longer employed in one of the specified roles, the policy would cease at the
renewal in August 2022.
Mr K referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. He says
Aon was made aware, by Mr Ks previous employer, in October 2021, about the change in
eligibility criteria for the scheme. Our investigator thought this couldve been mentioned
when Mr K called to add his new car to the policy. He would then have been better informed
as to whether to make the change.
Our investigator didnt think itd been shown that another insurer wouldnt require the same
alarm system in order to provide cover. So, he didnt ask Aon to refund the cost of the alarm
Mr K paid. But he did think Aon should pay £150 compensation for the inconvenience
caused.
Mr K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. Aon didnt agree with
this outcome either. It says Mr K was twice informed of the scheme criteria, which meant he
had to be employed by the company the scheme was set up for.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2022 explaining that I was intending to not 
uphold Mr Ks complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my intention is to not uphold Mr Ks complaint. Let me explain.
Ive listened to the call Mr K made to Aon in January 2022. He explains to its agent that he
wants to add another car to his existing policy. He asks for this to start on 21 January. Aons
agent processes his request. She needed to clarify information about the vehicles insurance
group and calls Mr K back later on to confirm this. Mr K agrees to the additional premium
and provides payment.
During the call there is no mention from Mr K of any changes to his circumstances. He only
asks to add a new car. I note his comments that he wasnt told of a change to the scheme
rules, which meant he no longer qualified for this cover, and it would cease at the end of the
policy year. Meaning he spent £1,000 on an alarm system without knowing this. But I dont
think the criteria had changed, or that it was Aons responsibility to question Mr K about his
employment status, when he called to add the new car to his existing policy.
Ive read the statement of fact document that was sent to Mr K in August 2021, relating to
the renewal of his existing policy. As well as the statement of fact document sent in January
2022 when he added the new car. Both statements, under General Details on the front
page say:
You have confirmed: You are a Partner, Director, Manager or Member of the approved
Professional Body for which this scheme relates.
Mr K explains he is self-employed. This was the position at the time he contacted Aon in
January 2022. This means he didnt meet the terms of the policy. I note Aons comments to
our service that it understood Mr K was a partner, director, or manager, with his now
previous employer, at the time his policy renewed in August 2021  as he hadnt informed it
otherwise. Its not clear if Mr K was still a partner at the time of this renewal. But he confirms
he wasnt when adding his new car to the policy in January 2022.
On the second page of the statement of fact document from January 2022, it says:
You have confirmed (unless advised to and agreed by Us and noted on The Schedule):
if your Vehicle(s) has an Association of British Insurers (ABI) group rating of 45 and
above, the Vehicle(s) have a Thatcham Category 5 / S5 Tracking Device fitted, fully
operational and any required subscription to the system operator has been
maintained.
I note Aons comments that its clear Mr K read the documents it sent to him, as this is where
instructions were provided about the alarm system required by the policy. At the top of the
statement of fact document, the following instruction is provided in bold regarding the
information contained in the document:
It is very important that you check that it is complete and accurate. If it isnt contact Your
insurance adviser immediately.
The information wasnt accurate as Mr K wasnt a partner at the company. He was self-
employed. I think its reasonable that he shouldve contacted Aon when he received this
documentation - certainly in January 2022, and possibly in August 2021, depending on when
he ceased to be a partner.
The policy schedule Mr K received in August 2021 explained the importance of reading thisdocument along with the statement of fact and the policy wording. It says Mr K must inform it
immediately of any circumstances or changes which it would consider in its assessment or
acceptance of this insurance.
Based on this information I think its reasonable to expect for Mr K to inform Aon of his
change in circumstances. Aon has confirmed the insurer had agreed to continue cover until
the end of the current policy year, including the addition of the new car. I think this is
reasonable. But I think it was Mr Ks responsibility to inform Aon that he was self-employed.
I note Aons comments that the policy Mr K added his new car to was always expected to
end in August 2022. There was no agreement for the policy to continue beyond this time.
I also acknowledge Mr Ks comments that his previous employer had told him the scheme
includes ex-partners. I dont dispute what he says. But this isnt what the policy
documentation said in 2022 or at the renewal in August 2021. I cant comment on what Mr K
was told by his previous employer. But this information wasnt confirmed by Aon. So, I cant
reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve this complaint.
I said I was intending to not uphold this complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Aon responded to say it had nothing further to add. 
Mr K responded to say that he disagreed with my provisional findings. He says I didnt 
correctly consider the circumstances behind his employment status. Mr K says he has been 
insured under the policy throughout the period after leaving his previous employer.
Mr K says Aon has known that he was a retired partner and working in other employment all 
the way from 2013 onwards. He says he has had cars on this policy all this time. Mr K says 
there has been no change in his employment status, only a change in the rules Aon has 
applied to the policy. 
Mr K says there was no change for him to inform Aon about. He says if the rules change 
then its for AON to bring this to his attention. He says it did this, although this was too late 
and after he had committed to the extra expenditure of installing the alarm.
Mr K says that my findings are fundamentally wrong as I said there was a change in his 
circumstances. He says there was no change to his circumstances but rather a change in 
Aons rules. 
Mr K says the amount of compensation is the matter in question. He refers to our 
investigators view that it was fair for Aon to pay him £150 compensation. He says that given 
he has spent £1,000 unnecessarily, there is no reason to accept £150 and it is this matter 
that should be addressed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought carefully about the point Mr K makes regarding his employment status. More 
specifically that he had been retired from his employment as partner with his previous 
employer since 2013. I note his view that its Aon that changed the rules. And it was the businesses responsibility to inform him. 
In my provisional decision I said I had listened to the call recording when Mr K added his 
new car to his policy. I said there was no mention of a change in circumstances. I accept his 
further comments that he had been retired from his role as partner since 2013. So, there was 
no change to these circumstances as of the time he added his new car to the policy in 
January 2022. 
However, in my provisional decision I also pointed to the information contained in the 
statement of fact documents sent to Mr K in August 2021, at the time of his renewal, and in 
January 2022 when he added his new car. This tells Mr K he had told Aon he was, ..a 
Partner, Director, Manager or Member of the approved Professional Body for which this 
scheme relates. This wasnt accurate in January 2022, and as Mr K has since confirmed, 
wasnt the case in August 2021 at the time of his policy renewal. 
Its apparent that Mr K was able to read the statement of fact document he received, as this 
is where the requirement for the specific alarm was highlighted. It was made clear in the 
policy documentation Mr K was sent, that he needed to check this information to ensure it 
was accurate.
I acknowledge Mr Ks comments that his previous employer told him the insurance scheme 
with Aon includes ex-partners. But as I set out in my provisional decision, this isnt what his 
policy documentation confirmed in the information sent in 2021 and 2022. Mr Ks 
circumstances may not have changed, but it was made clear to him that he should read his 
policy documents and highlight any inaccuracies. He acted on the instruction to install the 
required alarm system but didnt contact Aon to inform it that he wasnt a partner. 
Im sorry Mr K has paid for an alarm system that he considers was an unnecessary expense. 
Although its possible other insurers have a similar requirement. But irrespective of this, I 
think Mr K should reasonably have contacted Aon when he received his policy 
documentation in January 2022 to confirm he didnt meet the employment criteria. If he had  
done so he will have then known that the policy wouldnt extend beyond the current policy 
year. Mr K would then have been in an informed position to decide whether to install the 
alarm system required by the policy terms.     
For these reasons I dont think Aon did anything wrong, so I cant fairly ask it to do anymore 
to resolve this complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ks 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman