DRN-4217123
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc didnt do enough to protect him when he was 
the victim of an investment scam.
Mr S is being supported by a representative, but for ease, Ill refer to Mr S throughout 
this decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, and so Ill only refer to 
some key events here.
In 2017 Mr S was contacted by an investment company (who Ill refer to here as D). D 
introduced Mr S to an investment opportunity into a company (which Ill refer to here as 
W). The investment involved the purchasing of bonds to subscribe to a fixed income bond 
in relation to property investment. Neither W, nor the investments it offered, were 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Mr S has said he carried out no checks into the investment with W  instead relying on 
the advice and information provided by D. He says D sweet talked him into investing 
and offered an extra percentage on the interest if he invested. 
On 15 May 2017 Mr S made two in-branch transactions of £25,000 each into the 
investment from his Bank of Scotland account to a company (which Ill refer to here as C). 
Mr S says he received returns on the investment for about nine months. But then he was 
told payments would be delayed and hes received nothing further. 
In October 2022 Mr S, via his representatives, complained to Bank of Scotland. Mr S said 
Bank of Scotland shouldve intervened in the two payments before allowing them to be 
processed. And if it had, his loss couldve been prevented. 
Bank of Scotland didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It believed Mr S was involved in a civil 
dispute  not a scam. It said information from the time indicated that D,W, and C were 
all genuine companies, and C was regulated by the FCA. 
Bank of Scotland confirmed the two payments had been made in branch. Given the 
passing of time, it had no record of what was discussed or what checks were carried out. 
But from the information available at the time, Bank of Scotland didnt think the payments 
wouldve flagged as a concern, of that any intervention it made wouldve made a 
difference. 
Bank of Scotland tried to recover the lost funds from the receiving bank  but no funds 
remained. 
Unhappy with Bank of Scotlands response, Mr S referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. He maintained hed been the victim of an investment scam. And if Bank of 
Scotland had intervened when he made the payments, he said his loss couldve been 
prevented.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He concluded that 
Bank of Scotland shouldve spoken to Mr S about the payments  given they were made 
in branch and represented unusual account activity. But our Investigator didnt think any 
intervention by Bank of Scotland wouldve prevented Mr Ss loss. He also thought Bank of 
Scotland had done enough to try and recover the lost funds.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to issue a final decision. He maintained 
the investment was a scam and agreed that Bank of Scotland shouldve intervened when 
he made the payments. But he thought that intervention wouldve made a difference and 
prevented his loss. 
Mr S said Bank of Scotland shouldve asked him about D  at which point he wouldve 
disclosed hed been cold called. And on checking the FCA register  Mr S said Bank of 
Scotland wouldve discovered D was unregulated and unqualified to provide financial 
advice. 
Mr S also said Bank of Scotland shouldve alerted him to the fact that such investments are 
high risk and only advisable for high-net-worth individuals or experienced investors  of 
which he said he is neither. Mr S said if he had known this information  he wouldnt have 
pursued the investment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this is not the answer 
Mr S was hoping for and so this will come as a disappointment. Im really sorry to hear 
about the situation hes found himself in, and I can understand why hed want to do all 
he can to recover the money he lost. But I need to decide whether Bank of Scotland can 
fairly and reasonably be held responsible for Mr Ss loss. Overall, Ive decided that it 
cant be. Ill explain why.
I accept the transactions Mr S made were authorised payments. So, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2009 and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr S is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider Bank of Scotland should fairly and reasonably: 
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. So, taking all of this into account, I need to decide if Bank of Scotland acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr S when he made the two £25,000 payments, specifically 
whether it shouldve done more than it did before processing the payments  and if it had, 
would that have made a difference. I also need to decide if Bank of Scotland ought to have 
done more than it has already done to recover the funds.
Was this a scam?
As our Investigator has explained, whether Mr S was the victim of a scam, or a failed 
investment, is a difficult point to resolve conclusively  particularly given the passing of 
time here. But for the purpose of this decision, I dont need to make a finding on that point. 
Instead, Im focusing on whether Bank of Scotland couldve prevented Mr Ss loss based 
on the information available at the time he made the two payments.  
Should Bank of Scotland have intervened before processing the payments?
Where theres interaction between a bank and its customer in relation to a payment, 
wed expect the bank to take this opportunity to find out more about the nature of that 
payment. 
Mr S made both £25,000 payments in branch, and so there was an opportunity for a 
discussion to take place. This, coupled with the fact the payments represented what Id 
consider to be unusual account activity (from looking at Mr Ss bank statement), 
suggests to me that Bank of Scotland shouldve questioned Mr S about the nature of the 
payments before they were processed. 
Would intervention by Bank of Scotland have made a difference and prevented Mr Ss 
loss?
I can see from Bank of Scotlands records that both payments were approved in branch 
and recorded as a high value amount. And so, I think its likely some discussion about 
the payments took place. But because these payments were made in 2017, neither Bank 
of Scotland nor Mr S have any notes or recollections of what was specifically discussed 
or if any warnings were given. 
So, Ive had to think about what Bank of Scotland is likely to have asked Mr S and what 
responses he is likely to have given. 
The investment was marketed as high-risk. Mr S has said Bank of Scotland shouldve 
discussed this with him  in line with his investment experience and available funds. But 
it was not Bank of Scotlands role here to provide Mr S with financial advice. 
Although the payments were being made to an FCA regulated company (C) - I wouldve 
still expected Bank of Scotland to have asked Mr S how he found out about the 
investment, and I believe Mr S wouldve said he was cold called by D. Id then have 
expected Bank of Scotland to have asked more questions of Mr S  specifically about 
his relationship with D, what he understood about the investment with W, and what 
checks hed done. 
Given Mr S has told us hed done no checks, I think its likely Bank of Scotland wouldve 
encouraged him to do so. But I dont think there were enough hallmarks of a scam at this 
stage for Bank of Scotland to have carried out checks itself or to have refused to process 
the payments. 
If Mr S carried out checks, Im not persuaded this wouldve given him any obvious cause for concern. Whilst the status of the companies involved here is more unclear five years 
on from when Mr S invested (with C no longer operating nor FCA regulated and W 
having gone into administration), there were no regulatory or other credible warnings 
about D, W or C in May 2017. And C was, at that time, authorised and regulated by 
the FCA. 
I think its also likely Mr S wouldve told Bank of Scotland he had a brochure from W 
about the investment, which appeared entirely genuine. And he has said that he fully 
trusted the advice being given by D, who offered enhanced incentives to convince him 
to invest. Im also mindful that Bank of Scotland have referenced the fact Mr S was 
advised against making the investment by his wife but decided to proceed. This further 
demonstrates Mr Ss confidence in the advice he was getting from D. 
With that in mind, any further questions Mr S put to D following advice from Bank of 
Scotland or any concerns he had in relation to whether D was regulated to provide 
financial advice, were more likely than not to have resulted in D offering Mr S 
reassurances. 
In addition, given it seems Mr S was investing in products that required no regulation at 
the time  a lack of regulation around an individual offering advice on those products 
would not obviously appear unusual or concerning to either Mr S or to Bank of Scotland. 
All this suggests to me that its more likely than not Mr S wouldve proceeded with the 
transactions  even if Bank of Scotland had alerted him to the risks involved and the 
checks he should make. 
And Im not persuaded any information provided by Mr S wouldve led to Bank of Scotland 
refusing to make the payments. I think it wouldve taken something more credible, like 
regulatory warnings about W or C, to have concerned Bank of Scotland or made Mr S 
pause and think more about his decision to invest.
Taking everything into account, I think any action from Bank of Scotland is unlikely to have 
made a difference. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable to hold Bank of Scotland 
accountable for Mr Ss loss. 
Id still expect Bank of Scotland to do all it could to try and recover the lost funds  even 
though the likelihood of recovery was slim given five years had passed. I can see Bank of 
Scotland contacted the beneficiary bank as soon as it knew about Mr Ss loss. But had 
confirmation that no funds remained. 
Bank of Scotland acted promptly here to try and recover the lost funds and so I cant say 
it shouldve done anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman