DRN-3113646
The complaint
Mr H complained about instalment loans he took out with Western Circle Ltd (trading as 
Cashfloat) and said they were unaffordable for him. 
What happened
Mr H took out two Cashfloat loans as follows:
loanstart date Loan statusmonthly 
instalmentsloan 
amounthighest 
instalment 
amount
117.10.2020 Paid 12.1.2021 4 £500 £242.85
226.2.21 Outstanding 5 £600 £228.40
Mr H told us that if Cashfloat had done proper affordability checks it wouldve seen the 
extent of his financial difficulty and realised that both loans were unaffordable for him from 
the start. Mr H said repaying the loans caused him significant financial and health problems 
and he had to borrow more money to keep up with payments. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr H and Cashfloat told us about the loans. 
Overall, our adjudicator didnt think that there was anything in the information Mr H provided, 
or the information Cashfloat shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what Mr H had told Cashfloat about his financial situation. Our 
adjudicator thought that Mr Hs borrowing record with Cashfloat wouldnt have given 
Cashfloat any reason to think that he had money problems and based on what it saw, the 
lending decisions seemed fair. So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.  
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. So it comes to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Cashfloat provided Mr H with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loans irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr H could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. There isnt any set list of checks a lender 
has to do  it depends on the particular circumstances. The checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Hs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. Id like to reassure Mr H that Ive 
looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
Before lending to Mr H each time, Cashfloat asked him for information about his monthly 
income and his outgoings. 
Cashfloat says it agreed to Mr Hs application after carrying out all the proper checks for 
these loans. It told us it relied on information Mr H provided about his monthly income (which 
it took steps to verify) and his expenditure. It also took into account statistical information 
based on what someone in Mr Hs particular situation was likely spend each month and if 
that suggested higher figures than Mr H had declared, Cashfloat used the higher figures 
when assessing affordability rather than relying on what Mr H had said.
Cashfloat says the information it recorded for Mr H showed that hed be able to comfortably 
make the loan repayments. And in these circumstances, it was reasonable to lend. 
Cashfloat recorded Mr Hs income as £1,108 per month and as that reflected what it saw on 
his payslip and was confirmed by an independent salary verification check, I think that was 
reasonable. Cashfloat disregarded pension income Mr H mentioned and based its 
affordability assessment just on his earnings so thats how I've approached this complaint 
too. I think its fair to say that if this extra income was taken into account it wouldnt change 
the outcome.  
I've thought carefully about each loan in turn.
loan 1
As this was his first loan with Cashfloat, at this early stage, Mr H didn't have any track record 
with the lender that shouldve alerted Cashfloat to any underlying money problems. The 
information Cashfloat had gathered about Mr Hs finances suggested that he shouldve been 
able to afford to make the monthly repayments on this loan out of his disposable income 
according to the figures Mr H had declared. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr H provided or the other information 
Cashfloat had recorded, which meant that Cashfloat shouldve taken more steps to check 
the information Mr H had declared. Whilst Cashfloat was aware that Mr H was paying an 
amount towards other active credit he had taken out, I think its fair to say that borrowers 
applying for loans of this type often have other credit on their record and sometimes an 
impaired credit history. Mr H hadnt told Cashfloat about anything that Id expect a lender to 
be unduly concerned about at this stage. It was early in the lending relationship and I think 
the checks were enough for Cashfloat to agree to lend. So I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint 
about loan 1.
loan 2
I can see that Mr H took out the second loan the following month after hed paid loan 1 early. 
I've taken into account that he increased his borrowing by £100 and arranged to repay the 
loan over a slightly longer term (so keeping down the cost of the monthly repayments). I've 
also kept in mind that this was his second loan from Cashfloat in just four months or so. But 
I dont think these things were enough to make Cashfloat think that Mr H was becoming 
increasingly indebted or struggling with being over stretched financially.Mr Hs circumstances were largely unchanged and I think its reasonable to say that loan 2 
looked to be comfortably affordable for Mr H. 
He hadnt shown Cashfloat any signs that he had found it hard to pay for his borrowing when 
he had loan 1 and his monthly repayments for this loan were a little less. 
The figures hed declared and the information Cashfloat had collected seem to support 
Cashfloats lending decision. 
And I think it was too soon for Cashfloat reasonably to be able to identify any particular 
pattern of lending that wouldve suggested Mr H was over-reliant on this type of borrowing or 
not using the money it lent for its intended purpose of providing short-term financial help.
Mr H feels that Cashfloat didn't do all the checks he thinks it shouldve done before agreeing 
to lend to him. 
But at this stage of the lending relationship, given these loan amounts and the relatively 
short loan terms, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Cashfloat to ask Mr H 
to prove what he was declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had told 
them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Cashfloat to lend without making any more detailed 
enquiries into his circumstances as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, 
to suggest Mr H wouldnt be able sustainably to repay the loan. 
And I think the information it had gathered supported the lending decision it made.
This means that I wouldnt have expected Cashfloat to have asked to see the credit report 
details and bank statements that Mr H has sent us before making its lending decision. 
Im sorry that Mr H had a problem with debt and that making the loan repayments hed 
signed up to was difficult for him.
I accept that Mr Hs financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information 
he provided or the other information Cashfloat obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint 
I have to be able to say a lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way. And, in this 
case, I dont think that Cashfloat did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr H. So I cant 
fairly say that Cashfloat shouldnt have provided this loan  and thats why Im not upholding 
Mr Hs complaint. 
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr H but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
If Mr H would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to get 
free debt advice on our website  or we can provide him with useful contact details if he 
gives us a call. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman