DRN-3318137
The complaint
Mr S complains about Allegiant Finance Services Limited (AFS) and the fee they are 
charging after Mr S received a refund from lender G following a claim they submitted.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr S instructed AFS to submit a claim for financial mis-selling against lender G 
on his behalf. Mr S agreed to AFS Terms of Engagement (TOE) as part of this process. In 
May, Mr S signed a Letter of Authority (LOA) which authorisation AFS to act as his 
representative during the claim. Following receipt of this, AFS submitted the claim to lender 
G who rejected it. So, AFS referred the claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service. And the 
Financial Ombudsman Service upheld the claim, awarding Mr S a cash in hand settlement of 
£3,511.54 after his outstanding balance on the loan provided by lender G had been settled.
So, AFS invoiced Mr S for their fee, in line with the TOE Mr S agreed to. But Mr S was 
unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr S didnt think the fee AFS charged was fair. Mr S didnt think the fee reflected or 
acknowledged the direct involvement he had during the claim, providing additional 
information where necessary. So, he wanted the fee to be significantly reduced to recognise 
this.
AFS didnt agree. They thought the refund Mr S received was due to the claim they 
submitted to lender G and then the Financial Ombudsman Service. So, they thought they 
were fair to charge their fee in line with the TOE Mr S agreed to. AFS also pointed out it was 
Mr S own decision to instruct them to pursue the claim and that he was made reasonably 
aware he could pursue the claim himself. So, they explained their full fee remained due. Mr 
S was unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. While they recognised Mr S 
belief he completed a lot of the work that led to the claim being successful, they thought AFS 
had submitted the claim to both lender G and AFS and that without this submission, Mr S 
wouldnt have received a refund. So, as Mr S instructed AFS to complete this work, they 
thought AFS were fair to charge their fee in line with the TOE.
Mr S didnt agree. He maintained his view that the fee should be reduced as hed had to 
complete work to ensure the claim was successful. And he thought AFS shouldve done 
more to explain to him he was always to pursue a claim himself without AFS representation. 
As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr S. I dont dispute Mr S 
testimony regarding the direct contact hes received while the claim has been ongoing. And I 
appreciate replying to requests, and providing additional information, wouldve taken both 
time and effort. I understand Mr S instructed AFS to pursue the claim on his behalf so I 
appreciate why Mr S would feel as though this contact means the fee AFS have charged is 
unfair.
But for me to say AFS should reduce their fee, Id need to be satisfied that AFS failed to 
provide the service Mr S agreed to when he initially instructed them. Or, that the fee has 
been charged unfairly, outside of the TOE Mr S signed. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case.
Mr S doesnt dispute that he authorised AFS to pursue the claim with lender G on his behalf. 
So, I dont intend to discuss this any further. Instead, Ive focused first on Mr S main issue, 
regarding the fairness of the fee as he feels as though he completed most of the work during 
the claim.
It's important to note that AFS agreed to pursue the claim on a no win no fee basis, with 
their fee being a set percentage of any cash in hand refund Mr S received. So, the fee itself 
isnt based on the amount of work AFS completed but instead whether the claim was 
successful.
Even so, for me to say the fee AFS are charging is fair, Id expect to see the work AFS 
completed was of value to the claim. And I think it was. I can see AFS submitted the claim to 
both lender G and the Financial Ombudsman Service respectively. And I think its 
reasonable for me to say that, without these submissions, Mr S claim wouldnt have been 
successful as it wouldnt have been with these organisations to consider. 
I can also see the Financial Ombudsman Service and lender G made AFS aware of their 
outcomes, which satisfies me that both organisations acknowledged AFS as Mr S 
representative. So, if either organisation contacted Mr S directly, it was their own decision to 
do so. And I dont think it would be fair for me to say AFS are responsible for this. 
AFS made it clear within the pre-contact information and the TOE that their fee would be 
30% inclusive of VAT for any cash in hand settlement Mr S received. And I can see the fee 
AFS are charging falls in line with this. So, as I think AFS submitted the claim that led to this 
cash in hand refund, I cant say AFS have acted unfairly.
Im aware Mr S has said AFS didnt make it reasonably clear to him that he was able to 
pursue the claim himself without their services. And that hed have done so if they had. But 
in the claims pack AFS sent to Mr S on 30 April, which Mr S signed so Im satisfied he 
received, I can see AFS make Mr S aware of his ability to pursue the claim on three different 
occasions. 
And this was made clear in both the pre-contract information, the service summary, and the 
TOE that he signed. So, I dont think I can agree that information explaining Mr S ability to 
pursue the claim was buried within the small print of an agreement. I think it was made 
reasonably clear and readily available for Mr S to consider.
And just above the area where Mr S signed the TOE, it states the following I confirm that I 
have read all pages and I accept the Pre-Contract information, Service Summary and these 
Terms of Engagement. Id expect Mr S to have read the documents hes agreeing to have seen when signing the document. While I understand Mr S may not have done so on this 
occasion, I dont think this is the fault of AFS.
So, while I recognise the fee AFS are charging is a significant one, and I appreciate Mr S 
concerns about the value of the service compared to this fee, I think AFS have acted fairly 
on this occasion and that the fee theyre charging is reasonable. Because of this, I dont 
think they need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint about Allegiant Financial 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman