DRN-2515860
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mrs and Mr G 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about monthly premium PPI policies taken out to cover secured loans in 
1999 and 2000.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place over 20 years ago and, not surprisingly, many of the original 
documents from the time are not now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago; so, it can be difficult to know whether its fair to 
rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest outcome can be difficult.
Mrs and Mr G have said the PPI was not presented as an option but rather as a necessity, 
and they did not receive enough information to give them a full understanding.
The problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth having. The 
closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real sensible alternative to taking the 
policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. 
Also, against this, Bank of Scotland has presented some evidence that the application form, 
that was likely to have been used, would have presented the PPI as a choice. 
So, I think it more likely than not it was presented as optional. And, overall, it wouldnt be fair 
to say Bank of Scotland did something wrong unless I had stronger evidence.
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr G, and this means we would 
judge its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mrs and Mr Gs particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a secured 
loan can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs and Mr Gs situation at the 
time: 
Its likely Mr G (the person covered) was eligible for the policy, so would have been 
entitled to make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr G received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it seems Mrs and Mr G didnt have savings to 
fall back on. So the PPI could have put Mrs and Mr G in a more secure position, if 
theyd eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr G would 
have been affected by any of these
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and a recommendation would have 
been suitable. It would then be up to Mrs and Mr G to decide whether they wanted to accept 
the recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether Mrs and Mr G took the PPI. I say this because, in their circumstances, its 
unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman