DRN-1671473
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with the compensation Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) has offered 
to settle her complaint related to excess commission paid as part of the premiums for a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy associated with her credit card.
What happened
Ms S has a PPI policy associated with her credit card and complained to Capital One that 
she may have paid some excess commission as part of her premiums. 
Capital One responded to Ms S that it would deal with her complaint as a mis-sold PPI 
complaint. It indicated that if the PPI was found to be mis-sold then it would cancel the policy 
and refund all the premiums paid. If it wasnt mis-sold then Ms S may be due a refund of 
some excess commission and it would be her choice if she wanted to cancel the policy.  
Capital One investigated the PPI and said that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. It wrote to Ms S in 
September 2019 to tell her this and also said it had considered if any excess commission 
had been paid. 
Capital One confirmed that at times commission had been paid that was more than 50% of 
the total premium paid and this level of commission had not been disclosed when she took 
out the policy. So it was going to refund the excess commission over 50%, any charges and 
interest caused because of this excess commission, plus add some compensatory interest 
for the time Ms S was out of pocket. In total it offered and sent a cheque to Ms S for 
£1,015.14 after tax.
Ms S wasnt happy with what Capital One had told her and brought her complaint to this 
service.   
Our adjudicator said that the compensation paid by Capital One was fair. 
Ms S remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint I am only considering if the compensation paid by Capital One relating to 
excess commission that was part of Ms S PPI premiums is fair. During the course of her 
complaint possible backdated claims issues arose and Ms S also had concerns about these. 
So a separate complaint was set up against the insurer who was responsible for 
underwriting and dealing with any claims made on the policy.
Ms S has indicted in response to the adjudicators view for the Capital One complaint about 
the excess commission that some claims issues relating to application of terms and 
conditions of the policy need to be addressed by Capital One. I am afraid the claims issues 
Ms S has, are totally separate considerations and unrelated to the calculation of the correct amount of compensation for any excess commission. Therefore, I am not considering 
anything related to any claims issues as part of this complaint. 
Capital One did consider if this PPI policy was mis-sold. When a policy is found to be mis-
sold it would be cancelled as deemed unsuitable for the consumer and all the costs of the 
PPI that had been paid would be refunded, to put a consumer as far as possible in the 
position they would have been if they had never taken out the PPI. 
In this case Capital one said the policy wasnt mis-sold so the policy was not automatically 
cancelled, and the full premiums would not be refunded. Capital One then considered if any 
excess commission or profit share had been paid as part of the premiums that needed to be 
refunded.  
Capital One did find that some excess commission and profit share was paid and offered 
and paid compensation of £1,015.14 after tax to Ms S. This was made up of £502.84 in 
excess commission; £12.00 of additional charges caused because of the excess 
commission in the premiums paid; interest charged at the compound rate on this excess 
commission whilst part of the balance of £271.69; and 8% simple interest on the amount 
Ms S had been out of pocket came to £285.76 before tax of £57.15 was taken off.
Ms S does not want the PPI policy to be cancelled and has not complained it was mis-sold 
and she hasnt challenged Capital Ones findings that the policy wasnt mis-sold. So I have 
not looked in full at the issues about whether the policy was mis-sold. I have focussed my 
investigation on whether the compensation offered for excess commission is fair.
I can understand why Ms S was concerned as to whether the calculation was correct as 
Capital One had only provided the summary figures about the excess commission as I have 
indicated above. Ms S wanted to be reassured that the calculation was fair and felt that 
Capital One should disclose all the rates of commission charged and the detailed 
calculations, with full figures, carried out by Capital One.
The problem with this is that the calculators businesses use are commercially sensitive 
information and Capital One does not agree to the detail and its calculator being disclosed. 
When Capital One was setting up its calculator it provided this service with overall 
information about commission rates and how the calculator would work. I have seen some of 
this information so hope I can reassure Ms S about the calculation of her commission 
compensation. 
Commission levels on PPI have always varied, sometimes from month to month. In the 
Plevin case in 2014, the Supreme Court indicated that a high level of commission which 
formed part of the premium paid, of which the consumer was not made aware before taking 
out the policy, created an unfair relationship. Following the findings in that case the Financial 
Conduct Authority introduced new rules in 2017 that said where a business had taken 
commission rates of more than 50% of the premium, and not disclosed the rate to the 
consumer, this created an unfair relationship and any excess over that 50% should be 
refunded.
I would stress it is the fact that the rate over 50% was not disclosed to a consumer that 
makes the relationship unfair and so requires the excess refunding. This does not make a 
rate over 50% an unfair rate that cannot be charged, providing the consumer is informed of 
the rate. Once informed of the rate a consumer can then make a choice as to whether they 
want to pay the rate being charged as part of the premium, and if they think the insurance 
cover is worth the cost of the premium.In this case I have had sight of the rates of commission that were part of the premiums  
between 2008 and 2017, when Capital One set up its calculator. These ranged between the 
mid 80s and low 60s in percentages. The rates from 2017 onwards also varied but at lower 
rates. The relevant, specific rate for each month has been used in the calculator Capital One 
put in place to work out any excess commission compensation. 
In Ms S case this resulted in a total amount of compensation for this excess commission, 
from July 2008 to September 2019, being £502.84. The total Ms S paid in PPI premiums for 
this period was £1,982.20. This would indicate approximately 25% of the PPI premiums have 
been refunded. I can see from the rates charged at different times that the approximate 
average rate of the commission charged during the whole period from 2008 to 2019 is 
around 75%. So on the basis the 25% over the 50% charged was excess, and this 25% has 
been refunded, this would indicate the correct amount of commission is being refunded.
Capital One has reconstructed the account removing the excess commission and calculating 
what would have been charged in interest each month without it. The difference between the 
actual amount of interest and the reconstructed amount is what Capital One is refunding for 
the interest caused by the excess commission. This reconstruction also identifies any 
charges caused by this excess commission and in Ms S case there is one over limit charge 
of £12.00 that would not have been paid if the excess commission had not been charged. 
Capital One has also worked out 8% interest on the amount Ms S was out of pocket for each 
month when she paid the excess commission and again, I have seen the calculation of this 
compensation. So I think the £285.76, before tax, that Capital One has calculated is fair.
In its final response letter in September 2019 Capital One told Ms S what its range of 
commission levels would be going forward. It also said to Ms S that with the knowledge of 
those levels being paid as part of her premiums, it was up to her if she wanted to cancel the 
PPI policy. 
Ms S has chosen not to cancel the policy as she believes it is of benefit to her. As she has 
now been told of the commission rates then she is no longer put in an unfair relationship in 
making that decision to keep the PPI policy on her account. 
I note Ms S has asked how Capital One can charge more than 50% commission when it is 
unfair. I hope I have clarified the point that it isnt the actual level of commission that is 
unfair, it is the fact if over 50% commission is paid and not disclosed it creates an unfair 
relationship. Ms S now knows what commission levels she is paying and so can make an 
informed choice as to whether keeping the PPI in place is worth the cost of the premiums, 
knowing that between 56% and 62% of what she pays may be for commission. 
In summary I can only say that on the evidence and information I have seen, and indicated 
in some detail above, I think that what Capital One has calculated and paid in compensation 
for the excess commission and profit share is fair.
I do hope I have reassured Ms S about the calculations by Capital One, even though I am 
unable to provide all  the data and information as it is commercially sensitive information.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, Im not upholding this complaint as I think what Capital 
One (Europe) plc has offered to settle Ms S complaint about excess commission and profit 
share is fair.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman