DRN-1993170
The complaint
Mrs H, who is represented by her husband, Mr H, complains that PSA Finance UK Limited 
was unsympathetic to her when she was experiencing financial difficulties and delayed 
collecting the car when the agreement was ended.
What happened
In October 2015 Mrs H acquired a new car costing £22,145 funded by a deposit of £400 and 
the balance with a hire purchase agreement. The agreement was for 37 months with 
payments of £338.27 and a final sum of £9,567.
In late 2016 Mrs H and her husband experienced financial difficulties which meant she was 
late with one of her payments. She was late with her payment in July 2017 and a payment 
plan was set up, but this wasnt successful and another one was agreed in December 2017.
It was clear that Mrs H was struggling to make the payments and PSA asked for income and 
expenditure details. It concluded she was not in a position to continue with the agreement 
and it put forward three options. These were to part exchange (PE), voluntary termination 
(VT) or voluntary surrender (VS) of the car. PSA explained the costs around VT and VS 
offered a breakdown of figures in November 2017.
Mrs H continued with the agreement until 31 August 2018 when she wrote to PSA notifying it 
that she wished to VT the agreement. It responded a couple of weeks later setting out the 
requirements. These included a charge for collecting the car if she didnt wish to return it, but 
Mrs H maintained she wasnt liable to pay for this and a delay ensued. The cars MOT 
became due and while PSA offered to pay for this it said she would be liable for any repairs 
needed. 
Eventually PSA took voluntary possession of the car and charged her £702.47. This 
comprised the payment due on 31 August 2018 and a £364.20 repossession fee. This was 
subsequently passed to a debt collection agency.
Mrs H complained and PSA responded in November 2018 addressing the delay in collection 
and the ensuing charges. Mr A didnt feel it had dealt with all the issues and a further 
complaint was made. The complaint was then brought to this service on 30 October 2019.
It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She noted 
that Mrs H hadnt brought her complaint regarding the delay in collecting the car in time and 
the business had objected to it being considered. She explained our rules say that, unless 
the financial business agrees, we do not have the statutory power to consider a complaint if 
it is referred to us more than six months after a final response letter is issued. Therefore, 
she explained that she could only consider the complaint regarding PSAs handling of the 
account in the light of Mrs Hs financial problems.
She expressed her sympathy with Mrs Hs situation and explained that the Finance and 
Leasing Association lending code states that lenders deal with cases of financial difficulty 
sympathetically and positively and do what they can to help borrowers pay what they owe.
She noted that PSA had changed the payment date and had agreed to two payment plans in 
order to assist Mr H. It had also established that Mrs H had significant problems in meeting 
her obligations, but she had managed to make payments albeit late on occasions until 
August 2018. At that point she sent her VT notification. Our investigator thought PSA had 
taken reasonable steps to support Mrs H. Mr A didnt agree and asked that the complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy but Mrs H and her husband, but I do not consider I can uphold her 
complaint. I will explain why.
On the matter of the complaint about the delay in collecting the car and the repossession fee 
I have noted that this was brought to this service more than six months after the final 
response letter issued by PSA. This means it falls outside our jurisdiction and PSA hasnt 
given us permission to consider it. 
I am, however, permitted to consider complaints made outside of the usual time limits where 
I am satisfied that the failure to comply with the time limits was as a result of exceptional 
circumstances.  I have therefore considered whether there are exceptional circumstances 
which mean the usual time limits do not apply to this complaint. Regrettably I am not aware 
of any such circumstances. I note Mrs H and her husband were waiting for more information, 
but that of itself is not an exceptional circumstance. Therefore, my decision is limited to the 
handling of the account by PSA.
It is clear that Mrs H was facing difficult times beginning in late 2016 and these problems 
became increasingly challenging the following year. I can see that she sought to make 
payments even when these were delayed. I also note that PSA sought to help her 
throughout that period. I have reviewed PSAs internal records and can see it was in fairly 
frequent contact with Mrs H.
It agreed a change to the payment date and entered into two different payment plans. 
Eventually it became clear that the payments were too much for Mrs H and PSA offered her 
three options. However, Mrs H managed to keep payments up by a variety if means until the 
summer of 2018. I appreciate Mrs H was struggling, but I dont believe that PSA was 
unsympathetic to her situation. 
The records show it sought to help and it would seem that VT was a sensible option for Mrs 
H to have chosen. I can understand the loss of the car would have been a blow to Mrs H, but 
I suspect to have continued with the contract would have been difficult. 
In summary, I cannot see that PSA failed to support Mrs H and so I cannot safely conclude 
that it did anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 Ivor Graham
Ombudsman