DRN-4381172
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays), 
irresponsibly granted her a credit card account, and subsequently increased her credit limit, 
which she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Miss M took out a credit card with Barclays in May 2014, with a credit limit of £400. The limit 
was increased to £1,000 in December 2014. In November 2017, the limit reverted to £400, 
and the account was closed in March 2019.
Miss M complained that the card was issued (albeit with a relatively low initial credit limit of 
£400), and the limit then increased, without the appropriate checks. She said that at the time 
of her application she was in a cycle of debt. Miss M further said she used the card for 
gambling transactions, and took cash withdrawals, and within a few months of opening her 
account she was over her limit. But Barclays simply increased her limit to £1,000. She also 
told us she was frequently over her limit, incurring charges as well as interest, and that she 
borrowed money to repay the card balance on more than one occasion over the life of the 
card.
Miss M complained to Barclays, but it said that it had carried out appropriate affordability 
checks, and told Miss M that it did not uphold her complaint. She then brought her complaint 
to this service. Our investigator looked into it and thought it should be upheld. Barclays didnt 
agree and asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I should also say here that Barclays originally said that it thought Miss Ms complaint had 
been brought to this service outside the time limits we have to apply. Another ombudsman 
looked at this and determined that the complaint was brought to us within the relevant time 
limits, and therefore we do have the power to look at it. Barclays accepted this so I will not 
refer to the matter of time limits again in this decision.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023. I explained that I was minded to agree 
with our investigators conclusion that this complaint should be upheld, but that as further 
evidence had been provided after our investigator issued his view, I was issuing a 
provisional decision to explain my reasons in more detail and to give both parties an 
opportunity to respond.
Miss M and Barclays have responded to my provisional decision, so I can now issue my final 
decision. Both parties agreed with my conclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website, and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks required of a lender, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things such as the type and amount 
of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and 
the consumers circumstances. So Ive considered whether Barclays completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss M would be able to make the repayments 
on the credit card account in a sustainable way.
I set out my reasoning in my provisional decision as follows:
Miss M sent in copies of her bank and credit card statements, and some information, albeit 
limited, from her credit history, as well as detailed information about the sequence of events. 
Barclays sent in details of the checks it carried out and the information these were based on.
Barclays said that its data suggested that Miss M passed all financial checks and external 
searches. This meant she had a good disposable income, and the initial limit and increase 
were considered to be affordable. Where there were no figures for expenditure, it said the 
average figures for that area/demographic would have been used as part of the system 
calculation.
It also said that when Miss Ms credit limit was increased, she was using her card regularly, 
but there were no signs of financial difficulty. It would have been Miss Ms responsibility to 
contact Barclays if she needed any support or was facing any difficulty, so it could outline the 
support available.
Barclays further said that the information held with the credit reference agencies in 2014 
regarding other products held by Miss M did not raise any concerns. Gambling transactions 
were not treated as they are now and thus back in 2014 would not have been identified in 
the same way. Barclays would not have referred to Miss Ms bank statements as the 
information held through the credit reference agencies indicated that the low limit was 
affordable.
Barclays also said that Miss M had a good history of making payments and did not incur any 
significant charges during the review period; this would suggest the payments were 
affordable and appropriate. And the interest charged on the account is in line with Miss Ms 
spending and use of the card, which was correctly applied and in line with the terms and 
conditions she accepted when taking out the card.
Ive carefully considered all of the evidence provided. Looking at the bank statements sent in 
by Miss M, I can see that the monthly salary credits are consistent with the gross income of 
£16,000 stated in Barclays information about the card application. Miss M had a loan from 
her current account provider and the repayments were also shown on Barclays information. 
Barclays hasnt stated the figures it used for the estimated living costs.
However, I dont think Barclays checks were reasonable and proportionate. I say this 
because I can also see from Miss Ms bank statements from January to May 2014 that she 
was regularly overdrawn. There seems to have been an authorised overdraft limit, but there 
is an unauthorised overdraft charge in March 2014. I note that Barclays said the overdraft 
didnt appear on Miss Ms credit information at the time of the application, but its difficult to 
see why this would be the case, as the overdraft arrangement was clearly in place in the 
months before the application. Additionally, Miss M was using payday loans  there are 
three of these in the period January to March 2014, and two more in May 2014. I can see no reason why the first three at least would not have been shown on Miss Ms credit history 
when she applied for the credit card.
Taken together, I think the overdraft and regular use of payday loans should have prompted 
Barclays to look at Miss Ms income and expenditure in more detail. If Barclays had done so, 
it would have seen the extent of Miss Ms overdraft usage. I also note from the statements 
that the payday loans were often followed by amounts transferred to her partner. I dont have 
details of Miss M and her partners joint finances of course, but this pattern of transactions 
suggests to me that either Miss M was using the payday loans to repay borrowing from her 
partner, or that she was struggling to meet joint commitments.
I accept that the initial credit limit of £400 on the credit card was low, and the required 
monthly payment was modest. But from whats on the bank statements it seems to me that 
Miss M was living beyond her means, and wouldve been making the credit card payments 
from other borrowing. So I dont think Miss M would have been able to manage the 
repayments sustainably, and therefore I dont think Barclays acted fairly in granting the credit 
card to Miss M.
Ive also looked at the credit limit increase from £400 to £1,000 in December 2014. Again, I 
dont have the figures Barclays used in its affordability assessment with regard to living 
costs, but I do have Miss Ms bank statements from the period.
These statements show a similar pattern of spending and overdraft usage to that earlier in 
the year, and I can see payments to payday loan companies, so it seems to me that Miss 
Ms circumstances hadnt changed between May and December 2014. Barclays also had 
information about Miss Ms usage of the card and the statements show that she had made 
cash withdrawals totalling £300, in addition to other routine transactions. Whilst payments 
had been made, Miss M had been charged two over limit fees, and the November 2014 
statement  immediately before the credit limit increase  showed that Miss Ms card 
account balance was over her limit at that time.
As with the granting of the card, I think the overdraft and regular use of payday loans  
which I would expect to have shown on Miss Ms credit history  along with the balance on 
the card being over the limit, should have prompted a more detailed review of Miss Ms 
circumstances before increasing the limit. Ive no evidence that Barclays did that, so I dont 
think it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks.
For the same reasons as Ive stated above, I dont think Miss M would have been able to 
manage the increased repayments sustainably, and therefore I dont think Barclays acted 
fairly in increasing the credit limit on the card.
I have not commented specifically on the gambling transactions, although I can see a 
number of these on the bank statements - I accept that the treatment and consideration of 
these has changed over time. Instead I think Miss Ms general pattern of borrowing should 
have led Barclays to carry out more detailed checks on her circumstances, which it didnt do. 
And, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not satisfied she wouldve been able to make the 
credit card repayments sustainably. So I think Miss M has lost out as a result, and therefore I 
am proposing to uphold her complaint.
I also note that there have been delays in Barclays responses to this complaint, both to Miss 
M and to this service. This has caused additional distress and inconvenience to Miss M, and 
therefore I propose to require Barclays to pay an additional amount of £150 in recognition of 
this.In response to my provisional decision, Miss M said that she accepted my conclusions. 
Barclays said that it believed the checks it had completed were in line with process and 
policy at the time, but based on the information shared with this service, it accepted my 
findings.
As both parties have accepted my findings and no new evidence has been submitted, I have 
no reason to change my conclusions. So I uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Barclays ought to have opened the account, or later increased the credit 
limit, I dont think its fair for it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the credit 
agreement. But I think Miss M should pay back the amount she borrowed. Therefore, 
Barclays should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss M along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date 
of settlement. Barclays should also remove all adverse information regarding this 
account from Miss Ms credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Barclays should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss M for the remaining amount. Once Miss M has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from her credit file.
If Barclays has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the 
debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is 
carried out promptly
Pay Miss M £150 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Barclays Bank UK 
PLC should compensate Miss M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman