DRN-1797555
 
The complaint
Mr O complains that Origen Financial Services Limited provided him with the wrong 
information about his potential Inheritance Tax (IHT) liability so that he didnt take steps to 
mitigate this when he wouldve done.
What happened
In 2018 Mr O sought advice from Origen about investing £100,000 to provide him with 
additional income. He was advised to invest £20,000 in an ISA and the remaining £80,000 in 
a collective investment. The adviser didnt recommend any action with regard to his potential 
IHT liability but he did set out what Mr Os potential liability was.
Mr O contacted Origen in the first part of January 2019 because he was unhappy with the 
information he had been given by the adviser about IHT. The adviser asked Mr O if he would 
be happy if the adviser was able to get his investment into a discounted gift arrangement. 
But Mr O didnt take him up on this and used a different adviser in July 2019 and invested 
£150,000 in a Discounted Gift Plan (DGP) based on that advice.
Origen upheld the complaint in a final response letter dated 8 April 2019. It offered to repay 
the adviser fee Mr O had paid of around £2,600 as well as £150 for the trouble and upset 
caused. Mr O accepted this in partial settlement but said that Origen hadnt considered the 
point he had made about the delay in him putting in place IHT mitigation. Origen responded 
to him but didnt accept it needed to do any more so the matter was referred to us.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He 
thought Origen should provide an undertaking to pay any future IHT directly attributable to its 
actions as a result of a nine month delay in IHT planning. This was in addition to the 
repayment of advice fee and the offer of £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
Origen didnt agree with the investigator as it thought its original offer to repay the fee and an 
amount for trouble and upset was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that the adviser got things wrong But Origen thinks its offer to reimburse 
the fee for the advice and pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused is reasonable 
redress for its mistake. 
I acknowledge it has sought to deal with the complaint in a reasonable way and based its 
offer on what Mr O indicated he wanted. But I think once he had made it clear this wasnt 
accepted in full and final settlement it needed to reconsider whether the redress offered was 
reasonable. Origen has said that Mr O didnt come to it for advice on IHT but that he wanted advice on 
an investment of £100,000. It says no concerns were raised by Mr O with regard to the figure 
it had provided for his potential IHT liability  in other words he was told he had a potential 
IHT liability of £61,000 but chose not to take any steps to mitigate that liability.
I accept that Mr O did not come to Origen for advice on IHT. The suitability report sent to Mr 
O in June 2018 identified his only objective as:
Invest £100,000 of the monies you currently hold on deposit to provide an additional 
quarterly income
But although IHT planning was not something Mr O identified as an objective it is clear that 
this is something the adviser had discussed with Mr O. Origen have referred to a review 
meeting earlier in 2018 and said the advisers notes that were sent to Mr O recorded a 
potential IHT liability of £35,600 but that Mr O was going to get rid of some capital and given 
its low level and Mr O wanted an income it wasnt considered necessary to incorporate this 
in any recommendations.
The adviser in effect repeated this in the suitability report when he stated:
Based on your current assets and the introduction of the new property Nil band, you have a 
potential IHT liability of £61,000. However you are expecting to use some of your capital in 
future years which should reduce the potential liability therefore no IHT planning is required 
at this time. Should this change please let me know.
This was set out some way into the suitability report - on page 13  and it isnt clear whether 
the revised figure was actually brought to the attention of Mr O so its possible he was under 
the impression the figure was the original figure calculated by the adviser so. But regardless, 
the revised figure of £61,000 was also wrong, and significantly lower than Mr Os actual 
potential IHT liability which Origen calculated was actually around £110,000 at the time.
In its final response letter of 8 April 2019 Origen said that it had been unable to ascertain 
that due consideration was completed with regard to the money that Mr O invested being 
held under trust status. This seems to be an admission that the adviser didnt give proper 
consideration to that issue when he thought the potential IHT liability was only £61,000. In 
other words the adviser shouldve considered investing by way of a DGT in any event. 
I think that the adviser did fail to properly consider investing by way of a trust given that even 
on his own calculations the potential IHT was £61,000 and Mr Os objective of investing for 
additional income could be achieved by way of a DGT. 
But even if I am wrong about that I think it is more likely than not that Mr O wouldve invested 
through a DGT if he had been given the right figure for his potential IHT liability. I note that in 
response to questions the investigator put Origen confirmed that if the correct potential IHT 
liability had been calculated by the adviser further questions may have been asked and the 
adviser wouldve established if Mr O had concerns and wanted to address this and if so 
some sort of trust wrapper for the investment wouldve been included in the advice. 
I think it is more likely than not that if the correct figure had been used and there had been a 
further discussion about the potential IHT liability, which I think there wouldve been, Mr O 
wouldve chosen to invest in a DGT so as to mitigate his potential IHT liability in 2018.
I think this is supported but the fact that this is what Mr O actually did end up doing in 2019 
when he became aware he had been given the wrong information about his potential IHT liability and that he could invest by way of a DGT. Given this I dont think there is any reason 
to think he wouldnt have done the same in 2018. 
So I think it is reasonable to find it is more likely than not that he wouldve invested through a 
DGT in 2018 if he had been given the correct figure for his potential IHT liability and had 
been made aware his objective of additional income could be met by investing through a 
DGT that would also help mitigate his potential IHT liability.
What Origen should do to put things right
Origen has already confirmed it will repay the fee Mr O paid and I agree that this should be 
repaid by it given Mr O has had to pay a second fee to a new adviser with regard to the 
investment in the DGT in 2019. It has also offered £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused which I think is reasonable and in line with what I would award and so this is also 
something it should pay.
I have found that Mr O wouldve invested in a DGT in 2018 if he had been properly advised 
so his estate may now incur an IHT liability that wouldnt otherwise have arisen if Mr O dies 
within seven years of the investment in the DGT. 
I think it follows that Origen should provide an undertaking and indemnity to pay any IHT that 
becomes payable by Mr Os estate on his death that wouldnt have become payable if the 
investment Mr O made in the DGT in 2019 had been made earlier.
I think it is reasonable for the undertaking and indemnity to be on the basis the investment in 
the DGT was delayed by nine months. This is on the basis that Mr O first raised an issue 
with regard to the information he had been given about IHT in January 2019 and was aware 
that he could invest by way of a DGT, as set out in his letter of February 2019 to Origen, but 
didnt then invest in the DGT until July 2019. 
I acknowledge Mr O wanted answers from Origen, but it offered to put him in a DGT at the 
end of January 2019. I dont think it was necessarily unreasonable for him not to agree to 
that given what it had got wrong. But if he wasnt going to take up Origens offer to put him in 
a DGT I think it wouldve been reasonable for him to then take steps to get further advice 
about this from another adviser and put his money in a DGT at that time rather than several 
months later. 
I also note Mr O didnt raise any issue with the investigators opinion which also referred to a 
nine-month delay in investment in the DGT.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. Origen Financial Services Limited 
has to pay the redress and provide the undertaking and indemnity that I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman