DRN-2868420
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mrs C says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her PPI.
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA has taken on that responsibility. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to 
AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. And because Im reaching the same outcome as our adjudicator, and for the same 
reasons, I am proceeding to issue my final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Cs complaint. 
Where there is limited information, Ill make my decision based on what I think more likely 
happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties have told me and 
what we know about these types of sale.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive summarised my reasons for 
this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because to get the cover, Mrs C had to tick a box for it on the 
application form for the store card. The box is ticked and Mrs C has signed for the credit 
which denotes her agreement to the forms contents. So, if Mrs C had only wanted the 
credit, she could have left the PPI section blank. 
Mrs C has asked us how we can be sure that the tick for cover on the form was put there 
by her. I have noted Mrs C hasnt explicitly denied having ticked the box herself. In 
thinking about this, I have noted the copies of Mrs Cs store card statements. They show 
a cost for PAYMENT PROTECTION for many years. So, had Mrs C not ticked for the 
cover at the time, I think the statements may have alerted her that she was paying for 
something she now wonders whether she agreed to, and she may have raised this with 
AXA many years before she eventually chose to do. 
So, judging these events 25 years after the sale, I have seen insufficient evidence to 
make me find that the cover was applied for Mrs C without her knowledge.    
AXA told us the policy would have been sold without advice. So, it didnt have to check 
that the PPI was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs C enough clear and 
timely information so she could decide for herself it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs C. Mrs C told us she 
had some sick pay she could have relied on but the PPI could have paid out in addition 
to Mrs Cs sick pay and for longer than her employer would have paid her at her full rate 
of pay. And Mrs C told us she had no savings and no other insurance she could use to 
make her repayments in the event of long-term ill health, or if she lost her job, such that 
she may have had to rely on her husband for financial help in making her payments. 
Although Mrs C says she had a medical condition at the time the policy was taken out, I 
dont think better information about the existing medical condition exclusion wouldve 
caused her to change her mind about taking out the policy. I say this because Mrs C told 
us the condition had never caused her to take time off work. So, it seems unlikely that 
Mrs C would have thought at the time of the sale that this condition was most likely to be 
the reason she might need to be off work in the future. It also looks like the cover was 
affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. 
Because of this I dont think Mrs C would have declined the cover had AXA done 
anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs C would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.I have thought about what Mrs C remembers about the sale. She told us she felt under 
pressure in general due to the sale being at the till and there being other customers waiting 
to be served. This is a subjective area. So, having considered the above, I am not 
persuaded that I can reasonably conclude that Mrs C only took the policy because she was 
put under pressure to do so.
Ive also noted Mrs Cs testimony about her eyesight not being conducive to reading small 
print. But there is no evidence of Mrs C asking for a reasonable adjustment to be made at 
the time of the sale for this. Indeed, far from highlighting the issue, Mrs C told us she felt 
self-conscious about the condition when she was out in public and would hurry through 
competing a form, as quick as she could to get it done. Its not clear to me that AXA let Mrs 
C down at the point of sale based on Mrs Cs testimony.  
In any event, despite Mrs Cs condition, Ive said earlier in this decision that I think the 
information provided at the point of sale wasnt as clear as it couldve been. But for the 
reasons Ive given earlier in this decision, I dont think that better, clearer or more information 
would have put Mrs C off the cover. 
I suppose the adviser may have benefited in some way from selling the policy. But that 
would not have changed the advisers responsibility in how the policy was sold. And for 
reasons given already, whilst the information could have been clearer, I dont think, for 
reasons given already, Mrs C would have avoided the cover had better information been 
provided. 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party and not AXA. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court 
judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent applicable. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman