DRN-2554879
The complaint
Miss E complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) was irresponsible to 
lend to her.  
What happened
Miss E had nine loans from Lending Stream between March 2018 and April 2020 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max Monthly 
Repayment*Due Repaid
1 8 Mar 2018 £200 170d £89.60 24 Aug 2018 13 Jul 2018
2 13 Jul 2018 £600 197d £278.40 25 Jan 2019 26 Feb 2019
3 16 Jul 2018 £80 194d £315.52 25 Jan 2019 21 Dec 2018
4 30 Dec 2019 £350 180d £114.20 26 Jun 2020 28 Jan 2020
5 4 Jan 2020 £300 175d £208.85 26 Jun 2020 Outstanding
6 3 Feb 2020 £500 173d £253.21 24 Jul 2020 Outstanding
7 4 Feb 2020 £100 172d £284.70 24 Jul 2020 28 Feb 2020
8 28 Feb 2020 £370 181d £374.51 26 Aug 2020 Outstanding
9 16 Apr 2020 £100 194d £410.14 26 Oct 2020 Outstanding
* Including overlapping loans
Miss E says Lending Stream allowed her to borrow more money after shed submitted 
affordability figures, so she assumed shed be able to make the repayments. However, she 
says it caused her to be in financial difficulties, as she borrowed further to make the 
repayments, and she still had four loans outstanding when she complained to Lending 
Stream. Miss E says Lending Stream offered no solution or help and she is now stressed 
about paying priority bills after making the loan repayments.
Lending Stream says it asked Miss E about her employment and income, as well as her 
regular outgoings. It says it sanity-checked these figures with statistics from independent 
sources and revised them upwards if required. Lending Stream says it also carried out a 
credit check to understand Miss Es existing credit commitments and found all nine loans 
were affordable to her. Lending Stream offered to set up an affordable payment arrangement 
for the outstanding balance.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld in part. She found that by 
loan 9, Miss Es pattern of borrowing indicated she had become reliant on short-term lending 
and that it had become unsustainable. Our adjudicator recommended interest and charges 
should be refunded on loan 9, and that the loan should be removed from Miss Es credit file.
Miss E responded to say that Lending Stream had not responded to her and she considered 
it was irresponsible to approve other loans. She forwarded her credit file as evidence.
Lending Stream accepted the adjudicators view and requested Miss E to contact it if she 
wished to set up a repayment plan for the remaining balance.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss E could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Miss E could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Es complaint.Loans 1 to 2
When Miss E applied for these loans, Lending Stream asked her about her income and 
expenditure and carried out a credit check. As these loans were early in the lending 
relationship, Im satisfied these checks went far enough and that there was nothing in the 
available information that should have indicated to Lending Stream that the repayments 
were unaffordable.
Loan 3
Loan 3 was taken out within three days of repaying loan 1 and taking out loan 2. As loan 2 
was still outstanding, the maximum monthly repayment required was a significant proportion 
of Miss Es income. As such, I consider Lending Streams checks should have gone further 
to ensure Miss E could sustainably make the six monthly repayments. As a minimum, I think 
Lending Stream should have tried to establish whether Miss E had any other short-term 
loans that may not have appeared on a credit check.
Ive tried to gather the relevant information from the time of loan 3, but the credit file provided 
by Miss E appears to be incomplete and shes been unable to provide bank statements from 
that time. So I cant say what better checks would have shown Lending Stream and, 
therefore, I cant conclude it was wrong to approve loan 3.
Loan 4 to Loan 6
Miss E repaid her first three loans by 26 February 2019 and it was over ten months before 
she applied for her next loan from Lending Stream. I find it reasonable for Lending Stream to 
consider Miss E had not become reliant on its loans and to assess these loans as a new 
chain of lending. As such, Im satisfied it carried out enough checks for loans 4 to 6 and that 
there was nothing to indicate it was irresponsible to approve the lending.
Loans 7 and 8
Loans 5 and 6 were still outstanding when Miss E applied for these loans and I consider that, 
and the higher repayments, should have prompted Lending Stream to have carried out 
better checks. However, as Miss E hasnt been able to provide any further information, I 
cant say what such checks would have shown and, based on her declared financial 
circumstances at the time, I cant say Lending Stream was wrong to have approved loans 7 
and 8.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Lending Streams lending history with Miss E, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Lending Stream should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Lending Stream should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Miss Es case, I think this point was reached by loan 9 because:Loan 9 was Miss Es sixth in under four months so Lending Stream ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Miss E was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying her previous loans was leaving in her finances and that Miss Es 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably;
Miss E wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Lending Stream and 
she already had three other loans outstanding. Miss E had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Lending Stream over an extended period.
I think Miss E lost out due to Lending Stream continuing to provide loans at loan 9 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Es indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period;
the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Miss Es 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for high-cost loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 9 and Lending Stream should put things right.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending 
Stream) should:
A. Add up the repayments made by Miss E towards interest and fees on loan 9;
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss E which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss E originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
C. Remove all interest and fees from the balance on loan 9, and treat repayments 
made by Miss E as repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans;
D.If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. Lending 
Stream should try to agree an affordable repayment plan for the balance;
E.The overall pattern of Miss Es borrowing means any information recorded about 
loan 9 is adverse, so Lending Stream should remove it entirely from her credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to deduct tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream should give Miss E a certificate showing the tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman