DRN-3110647
The complaint
Mr C complains that Everyday Lending Limited was irresponsible to lend to him.
What happened
Mr C took out a fixed sum loan with Everyday Lending on 25 October 2017. He borrowed
£3,500 and was due to repay it over 30 months with repayments of £323.25 per month. The
last repayment was due on 1 May 2020 but Mr C settled the loan after 12 months - on 25 
October 2018.
Mr Cs representative says Everyday Lending had an obligation to assess his
creditworthiness by way of carrying out checks to assess his financial circumstances. It says
the loan agreement had the potential to adversely impact Mr Cs financial situation.
Everyday Lending says it reviewed two months bank statements, along with a payslip, as
well as carrying out a credit check. It says it verified Mr Cs income and accommodation
costs. Everyday Lending adds that it used a statistical average to estimate Mr Cs personal
expenditure and the calculations showed the loan was affordable to him.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He found that Everyday
Lendings checks showed Mr C was already struggling to manage his money when he
applied for the loan. Our adjudicator recommended that Everyday Lending should refund any
payments Mr C made above the principal (plus 8% statutory interest) and ensure that any
associated negative information is removed from his credit file.
Everyday Lending responded to say, in summary, that it had made a mistake in the living
expenses figure quoted in its final response, but that the calculations it used for the lending
decision were correct. It asked for clarification of the figure the adjudicator quoted for living
expenses in his view.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr C and to Everyday Lending on 8 September 2021. The 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice were outlined in the provisional decision, 
so I wont repeat them here.
I considered Everyday Lending should have carried out a full financial review before it 
approved the loan because:
The repayments were a relatively large proportion of Mr Cs income;
Everyday Lending needed to ensure the repayments were sustainable for 30 months;
Mr C had three active loans with a short-term lender, two of which, totalling 
£820, had been taken out in the last six weeks;
There were a number of returned direct debits;
Mr Cs credit card had slightly exceeded its credit limit.;
There was a default on Mr Cs credit file from May 2015, although this had 
been settled a few days after it had been registered;
I could see that Everyday Lending:
Asked Mr C for bank statements and verified his income and rental expenditure;
oAlthough Mr C declared his rent was £400 per month, Everyday Lending used 
the figure of £680 it found on his bank statement;
Carried out a detailed credit check;
Confirmed that Mr C would settle his outstanding short-term loans with the new loan;
oThis meant that Mr Cs credit commitments going forward were around £200 
on a loan and a credit card;
Questioned the frequency of the returned direct debits;
oMr C said this was an issue with money management, rather than one of 
affordability;
Used an estimate of 35% of income for Mr Cs other regular expenditure.
Based on the above checks, Everyday Lending calculated Mr C had a disposable income of
around £480 per month and, therefore, found the repayments to be affordable.
However, I found that a proportionate check should have included an assessment of Mr Cs
regular expenditure, rather than using an estimate of 35% of income. So I wasnt satisfied 
Everyday Lending carried out reasonable and proportionate checks.
I then considered what such checks would have shown by looking at Mr Cs bank statement:
Mr C made regular monthly payments totalling around £450, with a further £270 
spent on food and petrol - a total of £720, as compared with Everyday Lendings 
estimate of just over £730;
Mr Cs partner contributed at least £300 per month towards the rental cost of £680;
Direct debits were returned when there was money available in the other account, 
but transfers didnt happen in time;
Mr C had three loans with a short-term lender, but hed declared these and was 
proposing to settle the £961.12 balance with the new loan meaning his credit 
commitments going forward were one loan and one credit card with a combined 
monthly repayment of £215;
There were transfers to and from a further account, but as the transfers in and out 
balanced each other, I thought it was likely to be a savings account which would not 
have affected Mr Cs overall expenditure.
Finally, I noted that Mr C made all the repayments on time and settled the loan in October
2018.
In summary, although I didnt consider Everyday Lendings checks went far enough in thecircumstances, I found proportionate checks would have shown the loan to be affordable.
So my provisional decision was that I did not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Neither Mr C, nor Everyday Lending, responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice as 
outlined in my provisional decision.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision, I find no reason to depart from it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman