DRN-3968089
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money he lost after he fell victim to an 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail
here. But in summary, and based on the evidence Ive been provided, I understand it to be
as follows.
Mr B saw a vehicle for sale, on a well-known online marketplace, that he was interested in
buying. Mr B has said the vehicle was a long way from his home, so he couldnt view it, but 
that he carried out due diligence on the vehicle and the seller. Believing everything to be 
genuine Mr B agreed to buy the vehicle for £6,500, on the understanding that it would be 
delivered to him. So, on 2 November 2016, he went ahead and made a faster payment for 
this amount from his Lloyds account to the account details the seller provided. But unknown 
to him at the time, he was dealing with fraudsters, who had cloned a legitimate car dealers 
social media account and he had sent the money to an account that the fraudsters 
controlled.
Mr B realised he had been scammed when the vehicle wasnt delivered when expected, so 
he contacted Lloyds to report the scam.
Lloyds looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary its view was that while it 
recognised Mr B didnt make faster payments very often for this amount, it didnt think an 
intervention was required ahead of Mr B making the payment and it was satisfied that no 
bank error had occurred.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. He believed 
Lloyds had failed to detect and act on unusual and suspicious activity on his account and he 
didnt think Lloyds had acted quickly enough, when he reported the scam to it. One of our 
Investigators looked into things, but she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, our Investigator didnt think it would have made a difference, even if Lloyds had 
contacted Mr B before processing the payment. She said this because Mr B had carried out 
checks on the vehicle and seller, ahead of agreeing the purchase, so she didnt think Lloyds 
would have had any concerns if it had contacted him.
Alongside this our Investigator said she was satisfied that if Lloyds had contacted the 
beneficiary bank (the bank to which the money was sent) as soon as Mr B had made it 
aware of the scam, it wouldnt have made a difference. This was because at the time Mr B 
reported the fraud, the money had already been removed from the beneficiary account in 
full.
Mr B didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary he said Lloyds did nothing to 
prevent the financial loss from materialising. He believed that if Lloyds had contacted him, it 
would have made a difference and he would not have made the payment. Mr B also referred 
to a number of relevant rules, codes and best practice standards that he said were firmly 
established at the time of his transaction.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the
courts.
Mr B has raised some complaint points in his arguments that relate to the receiving bank,
which was not Lloyds. At the outset, I should make it clear that this decision solely focuses 
on Lloyds, in its capacity as the sending bank.
Mr B has also highlighted other cases where this service has recommended that the 
complainant should receive a refund of funds that were lost. We assess each case on its 
own merits and I am not able to compare the outcomes of complaints as the precise
circumstances may be very different, even if on the face of it the complaints stem from
comparable underlying events.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr B, and I can understand entirely why he feels so
strongly that this money should be returned to him and Im very sorry to hear of the impact 
this cruel scam has had on him. But having thought very carefully about Lloyds actions, I 
think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to be made. I also dont think it 
would have been able to recover any of the money Mr B lost. So having considered 
everything, Im not going to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly say
Lloyds should reimburse Mr B the £6,500 he has unfortunately lost to the fraudster. Ill
explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.
Theres no debate that Mr B authorised the payment in dispute. At the time he sent the
money, Mr B agreed to the payment and wanted it to be made. Because of this, Lloyds had 
an obligation to follow his instruction. Although he did not intend for the money to go to a 
fraudster, under the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (which are the relevant regulations 
in place here), and the general terms and conditions of bank accounts, Mr B is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance.The landscape surrounding fraud and scams has evolved a lot since Mr B made this 
payment in 2016 and some of the standards and protections that may help people that are 
scammed today dont apply retrospectively, such as the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) code, which Ive seen Mr B has mentioned in his submissions to us and he is aware 
that this code cant be applied to his case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and
guidance, any relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time, I consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So in this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Mr B, when he made the transfer and when he reported the fraud, or whether it should 
have done more than it did.
Lloyds has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. Having 
looked through Mr Bs bank statements, for the twelve months leading up to the scam, I can 
see the payment Mr B made to the fraudster was considerably higher than any previous
payment he had made. Alongside this, it was to a new payee and cleared the entirety of the 
account balance and led Mr B to utilising his overdraft facility. With all of this in mind, I think 
there was enough going on that Lloyds ought to have been concerned. With this I think it 
should have taken steps to conduct additional checks before processing the payment, as I
consider the activity on the account represented a possibility that Mr B may have been at 
risk of financial harm.
Where I find Lloyds ought to have intervened, this in itself isnt enough for me to say that
it should refund the money Mr B lost. I also need to be persuaded that its intervention would 
have made a difference and prevented the payment from being made. I have to base my 
findings on the balance of probability  that is, what I think is more likely to have happened, 
taking into account what I know.
Had Lloyds intervened at this point, Id have expected it to ask Mr B some questions about 
the payment. Mr B hadnt been coached by the fraudster about what to say, if he spoke to 
his bank, which can often be the case with scams, so I think he would have spoken freely.
I think Mr B would have told Lloyds that the payment was to purchase a vehicle and with this 
knowledge I think Lloyds ought reasonably to have asked further questions around this 
before allowing the payment to be processed, to satisfy itself that Mr B wasnt at risk of 
financial harm. But from the information Ive seen, and considering the circumstances of this 
individual case, Im persuaded Mr B would have been able to give plausible answers to any 
questions that Lloyds could reasonably have been expected to ask.I say that because Mr B would have been able to explain that hed communicated with the 
seller by way of emails and phone calls and from what Ive seen he wasnt being put under 
pressure to make a quick purchase, which can sometimes, but of course not always be an 
indicator of a scam. Mr B would also have been able to say that hed seen an image of the 
logbook and had carried out checks on Companies House, to confirm it was in fact a car 
dealer. As well as this Mr B had checked the sellers feedback on the marketplace, which 
was all positive and has said hed also checked with the marketplace itself to satisfy himself 
he was dealing with a legitimate firm.
Alongside this Mr B would have been able to confirm to Lloyds that he had carried out 
checks on the vehicle via government websites, to look up the vehicles MOT and road fund 
licence status and he hadnt seen anything that concerned him. Mr B has also told us that 
the most persuasive thing for him was that he had paid for a vehicle history check, to assure 
himself that there was no outstanding finance on the car, it had not been subject to an 
insurance write-off or accident and it hadnt been stolen. Given the answers I think Mr B is 
most likely to have given, I think it would have been evident to Lloyds that Mr B had carried 
out a not inconsiderable amount of research.
Im mindful that Mr B would likely have said that he hadnt seen the car, which ought to have 
been a red flag to Lloyds, as this is a common hallmark of these type of scam. But Im not 
persuaded this in and of itself, would have been enough for Lloyds to have not allowed the 
payment to be progressed. I say that as it isnt uncommon for consumers to purchase items 
through marketplaces and online without seeing them. But more importantly, in the 
circumstances of this case, I think it would have been reasonable for Lloyds to have been 
persuaded, considering all of the additional checks and diligence Mr B had carried out to 
protect himself, that he wasnt at risk of financial harm. This was a sophisticated scam where 
the fraudsters had cloned details for a genuine car dealer. On balance, I dont think Lloyds 
could fairly and reasonably have foreseen that Mr B was about to fall victim to a scam.
Im aware Mr B has said as part of its obligations Lloyds ought to have invoked the banking 
protocol and this hadnt been considered by our Investigator. Im mindful that the banking 
protocol typically applies to payments that were made in branch, in situations when branch 
staff have concerns that a customer may be falling victim to a scam. Mr B didnt make this 
payment in branch, but in any event, for reasons explained above, given that I think it more 
likely than not that an intervention would have satisfied Lloyds that Mr B wasnt at risk of 
financial harm, I dont think it wouldve had sufficient enough concerns to have invoked the 
banking protocol.
Finally, Ive gone on to think about whether Lloyds did what it shouldve done once Mr B
reported to it that hed been the victim of a scam. From the evidence Ive seen the money     
Mr B sent had already been removed from the receiving bank account, by the time hed 
reported the fraud to Lloyds. So I dont think Lloyds has missed an opportunity to recover 
any of the money Mr B sadly lost.
Its very unfortunate Mr B has lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated scam, and
I understand the whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for him and I 
dont underestimate the impact it has had. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly  
say Lloyds should have done more to prevent him losing this money. So I dont think it would 
be fair or reasonable for me to ask Lloyds to refund the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman