DRN-2468964
The complaint
Ms W complains about a loan that she took out with Novaloans Limited, trading as 
Cash4UNow, (NL), which she said was unaffordable. 
What happened
This complaint is about a loan which NL provided to Ms W on 27 November 2019. The loan 
was for £400 and was repayable by four monthly instalments of £167.32. It appears that 
none of the loan repayments have been made.
Ms W said that she was in serious financial difficulties at the time of the loan. She had 
several payday loans, high cost credit loans and credit cards. Ms W said she didnt believe 
that NL had carried out proper affordability checks. She said that NL would have seen from 
its credit checks that she had a very large amount of outstanding credit. The lender had 
called her at work and asked her if she could afford the loan. As she couldnt really talk at 
work, she said she could. Ms W would like NL to write off the loan balance as she is having 
difficulty paying her priority household debts and general living costs. 
In its final response letter, NL said that as part of its application process it did a number of 
checks with credit reference agencies. NL said that it could see that Ms W had active 
balances of almost £42,500 in unsecured credit which indicated that she was a heavy user 
of credit. Whilst this was not a restrictive factor, the lender believed that additional checks 
ought to have taken place prior to funding and with this in mind NL upheld Ms Ws complaint. 
The lender said that it was prepared to remove all interest and charges applied to the loan 
and remove the loan record from Ms Ws credit file once repaid.
Ms W rejected this offer.
NL then said that its offer in its final response letter was no longer available.
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that there 
wasnt anything in the information Ms W provided or the information NL shouldve been 
aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Ms W was 
saying. 
Ms W disagreed. She said that the loan shouldnt have been issued. She had three other 
payday loans, several other personal loans and credit cards at the time. She didnt think NL 
had made correct and proper affordability checks when it issued the loan.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
investigate.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms W 
and to NL on 25 November 2020. I summarise my findings:
I said that I was sorry to hear that things hadnt been easy for Ms W. I appreciated her 
strength of feeling on this matter and could understand why shed felt that NL shouldnt have 
agreed to lend to her. Id said that I intended to uphold Ms Ws complaint in part. But I didnt 
think it would have been appropriate to have asked NL to write off the principal balance 
outstanding here. I appreciated that this would be disappointing for her and I hoped my 
explanation made it clear why Id come to this conclusion.
Id explained that when NL lent to Ms W the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
CONC said that a lender needed to check that a consumer could afford to meet her 
repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant a consumer being able to meet her 
repayments out of her normal income without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks NL needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Ms W would be able to meet her repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggested that 
the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. 
In general, Id have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential 
risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for 
example, Id have expected a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed 
checks
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I said that NL had made a number of checks before it lent to Ms W. It had asked her for 
details of her monthly income and expenditure. Ms Ws declared income was £1,680 and  
Ms Ws declared expenditure was shown in NLs records as £647. This consisted of £247 for 
her mortgage, £310 for credit card repayments and £90 for other expenses. 
NL had also checked Ms Ws credit file before agreeing to the loan. NL has provided this 
service with a copy of its credit checks. I could see that Ms W had 18 active accounts and 
that three accounts had been opened in the previous six months. Whilst there appeared to 
be a defaulted account, there had been no defaults or delinquent accounts in the previous 
three years. So, it appeared that the defaulted account wasnt recent. Ms W also had an 
unsecured loans balance of around £24,300 and a revolving credit balance of around 
£17,500. There also appeared to be reference to at least four different payday loan amounts. 
So, I could see that as the checks appeared to show that Ms W had at least four payday 
loans at the time shed applied for NLs loan, it was likely that she was already experiencing 
significant financial difficulties. I thought the large amount of unsecured borrowing and the 
high number of active accounts including several short term loans ought to have caused NL some concerns. NL would also have been aware that the amount of credit commitments 
declared by Ms W wasnt likely to be correct and that her declared disposable income was 
likely to be substantially less. 
Although NL didnt need to do full checks when the loan was arranged, it did need to act on 
the information it had. So, I didnt think it was reasonable for NL to have lent to Ms W without 
carrying out further checks and that it ought to have taken steps to independently verify     
Ms Ws true financial position. 
Proportionate checks would most likely have shown that Ms W was already repaying at least 
three other short term lenders, high cost credit providers, and a number of credit card 
providers. Whilst I hadnt received bank statements or a credit report from Ms W, I had seen 
information about Ms Ws financial situation on other complaints with this service. In her 
circumstances, I thought there was a real risk that she wouldnt have been able to 
sustainably repay NLs loan without undue difficulties or without borrowing further. So as a 
responsible lender, I didnt think NL should have given the loan to Ms W. 
I thought NL had recognised that this was the case in its final response letter when it offered 
to remove all interest and charges on the loan and to remove the loan from Ms Ws credit file 
once it had been paid. I thought that NLs offer to remove all interest and charges applied to 
the loan was fair, but noted that NL had withdrawn the offer after Ms W rejected it. 
Id carefully thought about what amounted to fair compensation in this case. Id said that this 
Services usual approach to putting things right where we found a loan has been 
irresponsibly given was to require the lender to refund any interest and charges paid plus 
compensatory interest and, in the case of unpaid loans, to remove any unpaid interest and 
charges. It seemed entirely reasonable to me that Ms W shouldnt have to pay any interest 
or charges on her loan. I also thought that Ms W should repay the principal amount that NL 
had lent her. Shed had the use of that money. I hadn't seen enough to make me think it 
would have been reasonable to have asked NL to write that amount off. I also thought that 
NL should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ws credit file in relation to the 
loan. 
Subject to any further representations by Ms W or NL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to order NL to put things right as shown 
below. My proposed redress was drafted on the basis that I understood that Ms W hadnt yet 
made any repayments to the loan. If this wasnt correct, I said that the parties should provide 
me with information about any repayments in their responses to this provisional decision. 
putting things right  what NL needs to do
If NL has sold the outstanding debt on the loan, it should buy this back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If NL isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise 
with the debt purchaser to achieve the results outlined below.
1. The loan hasnt been repaid. In order to put Ms W back into the position she would 
have been had this not been agreed for her, NL needs to ensure that Ms W only 
repays the principal borrowed on this loan. In other words, she should not pay any 
interest or charges for the loan. So, NL should remove all interest, fees and charges 
applied to the loan, and treat any payments made by Ms W towards the loan as 
payments towards the original capital borrowed.
2. If there is still an outstanding capital balance on the loan, then NL should try to agree 
a mutually acceptable and affordable repayment plan with Ms W bearing in mind the need to treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions if she is still 
experiencing financial difficulties.
3. NL should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ws credit file in relation 
to the loan. 
NL responded to say that it was happy with my provisional decision and that it had nothing 
else to add.
Ms W hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Ms W and NL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part 
of the complaint and require NL to put things right by taking the steps set out above.
In deciding what redress NL should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might have 
happened had it not lent the loan to Ms W, as Im satisfied it shouldnt have lent it to her. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms W may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms W would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce NLs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Novaloans Limited, trading as Cash4UNow, to put things right by taking 
the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman