DRN-4068832
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Metro Bank PLC hasnt refunded her after she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mrs E received a WhatsApp message from a number she didnt have saved on her phone. It 
said, Hey mum, Ive just broken my phone and this is my temporary number. Although it 
was a new number, Mrs E immediately assumed it was her son and replied, Oh dear xx.
What Mrs E didnt realise is that shed been contacted by a scammer, posing as her son.
The scammer told Mrs E hed gotten himself in a situation and that he needed her help. He 
went on to explain that hed been locked out of his online banking as a result of trying to 
register it on a new device. He then said that he urgently needed to make a payment.
The scammer also told Mrs E that the microphone and camera werent working on the 
broken phone. 
Mrs E has explained that her son was in Thailand at the time and so she was concerned 
about him being in trouble. She said her panic and natural inclination to help her son led her 
to act. She offered to make the payment for him. 
The scammer gave Mrs E account details and asked her to make a payment of £1,400. He 
said it was for a MacBook that hed bought and received, having promised to make payment 
on delivery.
Mrs E tried to make the payment but thought it was going to a Thai account and so was 
trying to obtain a SWIFT number from the scammer. This meant she couldnt put the 
payment through to begin with. But the scammer informed Mrs E it was a UK account, and 
she could send the transfer normally. 
Mrs E logged into her online banking and created a new payee using the details provided. 
She tried to send the money twice, but it was returned both times. The scammer told Mrs E 
hed given her the wrong details and gave a different payee name, account number, and sort 
code. Mrs E set up another new payee and this time successfully transferred the £1,400.
When Mrs E told the scammer the payment had gone through, he asked her to send another 
£1,140. Mrs E said, I hope these are all bargains, to which the scammer replied, Yes of 
course. You know me . Mrs E went on to send the money.
The scammer made a further request for a payment of £980 which Mrs E sent, before then 
saying that the amount ought to have been £1,980, so could she send the additional £1,000. 
She went on to do so. Two further requests followed, one for £1,099 and one for £1,160.
Mrs E sent both of those final payments. Though before the last one she questioned how 
she could be sure she was talking to her son. So she asked the scammer to confirm the 
sisters name. The scammer didnt do so, instead sating Im not doing this. If you dont want 
to pay leave it. Although Mrs E didnt get an answer to her question, she still sent the 
money.
Over the course of these payments the scammer had reassured Mrs E hed pay her back the 
next day, once he had a working phone and online banking access.
There was one more request for payment. Mrs E again challenged the scammer with 
questions which werent answered. It was then that Mrs E realised shed fallen victim to a 
scam. 
Mrs E reported what had happened to Metro. It considered her scam claim under the 
Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. But it declined 
to refund her, saying that exceptions to reimbursement set out within the Code applied. It felt 
Mrs E had ignored effective warnings and hadnt held a reasonable basis for believing she 
was speaking with her son. Given that answer, Mrs E referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators upheld the complaint and said Mrs E ought to be refunded most of 
the money. He said Metros warnings didnt meet the standards for firms set out in the Code 
and so couldnt be used to invoke the applicable exception to reimbursement. And he felt 
Mrs E did hold a reasonable basis for belief at the time for all but the final payment made. He 
said by that time Mrs E had clearly grown suspicious and did challenge the scammer. But 
she proceeded to make a payment despite not receiving an answer to her question. He said 
it was then fair that liability for the payment ought to be shared as Mrs Es basis of belief 
ought to have fallen away at that point.
Mrs E accepted the outcome, but Metro did not. As an agreement hasnt been reached the 
case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Es complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Metro is a 
signatory to the CRM Code which, broadly speaking, is in place to ensure victims of scams 
are refunded. There are exceptions to reimbursement that a business may choose to apply. 
The relevant exceptions here can be expressed in the form of two questions:
Did Mrs E ignore effective warnings presented to her at the time she made the 
payments?
Did Mrs E hold a reasonable basis for believing she was dealing with a legitimate 
party for legitimate purposes?
Ill address each question in turn. 
Did Mrs E ignore effective warnings presented to her at the time she made the payments?
To answer this question, the warning presented to Mrs E must first be considered to see 
whether the exception to reimbursement can be applied, or if Metro ought to bear at least 
some responsibility for the loss. Was the warning effective and did Metro meet the required 
standards for firms? Im satisfied the answer to those questions is no. Which means liability 
on the banks part is established.
Ive considered the written warning given to Mrs E. I dont consider it to be impactful or 
specific enough to the scam she fell victim to. Thats not to say that Metro could possibly 
cover every detail and iteration of a scam in a written warning. But here it has failed to bring 
to life some basic elements of a very common scam. And Im not persuaded the suggested 
action for how a customer might protect themselves is particularly clear or helpful in terms of 
avoiding a scam. 
In addition to that, I dont believe Metro did enough in only delivering a written warning. I 
believe it ought to have stepped in to question the second successful transfer. By this time 
Mrs E had been in touch with the bank about making an international payment she evidently 
knew little detail about. Shed then set up a new payee and attempted to send £1,400 to the 
account twice, with both payments being returned immediately. A further new payee is set up and a payment of the exact same value is made, before being very quickly followed by a 
second payment of £1,140. This all happens within two hours. The two successful payments 
are made within 35 minutes of each other. 
I consider this activity to be unusual and it ought to have been identified as a risk by Metro at 
the time. It ought to have realised Mrs E was at risk of financial harm through fraud. That 
position is strengthened when considering the historic activity on her account.
Mrs E had made very few faster payments out of her account in the preceding twelve 
months, and even less to new payees. The value of those payments was almost always low, 
with the closest comparable payment being for £500. The increase in value of payments, the 
quick addition of new payees, and the rapid sending of funds to one of those payees ought 
to have combined to form a picture of suspicious activity that is frequently connected to a 
scam. 
Metro has stated that there was similar activity two years prior to the scam. Im not sure 
exactly what activity its referring to, but I dont consider anything that took place such a long 
time before the scam can be said to paint a picture of regular or normal account activity.  
All of this means that Metro ought to have stopped the second payment and questioned 
Mrs E about it. Id have expected the bank to have a discussion with Mrs E about the 
payment and to deliver an effective warning verbally. Im persuaded such a warning, linked 
with a discussion about the purpose of the payments and possible scams, would have 
revealed the deception and prevented any further loss. 
Did Mrs E hold a reasonable basis for believing she was dealing with a legitimate party for 
legitimate purposes?
When dealing with scams of this nature, and other types of scams too, its important to 
remember that customers arent going about their lives expecting to be scammed. People 
dont have their guard constantly up. Its easy to lose sight of that when in a position of 
dealing with scams every day and a heightened sense of awareness is present. 
Furthermore, its important not to be obfuscated by hindsight. The expectation cant be that 
all details of any interaction ought to be questioned by a customer. That isnt a realistic view 
of how individuals go about their lives and the expectation is set too high. 
Unless there is something within an interaction that clearly seems out of place or unusual, 
people will often not detect that something might be wrong. Scams like this succeed 
because fraudsters are adept at exploiting human nature and behaviours.
Mrs E was contacted on a new number by who she believed was her son. That his phone 
might have become damaged seemed entirely plausible, particularly as she knew he was 
travelling in Thailand.
What followed, whilst not detailed, appeared to be a normal conversation about needing to 
borrow some money urgently. This kind of scam is designed to prey on a parents instinct to 
help their child and, here, prevent negative financial impacts. And so, its fair to say, the 
rationale or circumstances may not be questioned as much as they otherwise might be. The 
fraudster is playing on an emotional response, that the parent themselves is unlikely to be 
particularly aware of at the time. 
Where there isnt anything within the messages that appears off or unusual, I find its fair to 
say that Mrs E held a reasonable basis of belief that she was dealing with, and helping, her 
son from the outset.
Mrs E has said she hasnt necessarily lent her son money before, but she was confident he 
could pay the money back. Given the nature of the request and the explanation for needing 
to make the first payment I dont think there was anything to put Mrs E on notice that she 
was dealing with a scammer.The scammer clearly and confidently explained the money was for a MacBook that had 
already been received and needed to be paid for. And he also confirmed that it was bought 
from a personal seller, rather than from a business.
What Metro has argued is true. Mrs E might have tried contacting her son by other means. 
Or she might have tried another person that could verify what she was being told. And doing 
so might well have avoided the scam altogether. But that isnt the test here. Its whether 
Mrs Es basis for belief was reasonable, and Im satisfied it was.
I think its fair to say that each new request for payment does make the circumstances more 
unusual and suspicious, even though there was nothing particularly alarming in what was 
being said. Thats reflected in how events unfold, where Mrs E does question the scammer 
before making the final payment, asking for the name of the sister. Mrs E clearly had doubts 
at this point.  And so, I dont think it was reasonable for her to proceed with a further 
payment, having not had an answer to her question. That means her responsibility for her 
losses comes in for the final payment and liability for it ought to be shared.
Putting things right
Metro should now:
Refund 100% of payments one through five (£5,619);
Refund 50% of payment six (£580);
Pay simple interest on the refund of payment one at 8% simple per year, from the 
date Metro rejected the claim under the Code to the date of settlement; and
Pay simple interest on the refund of payments two through six at 8% simple per year, 
from the date of loss to the date of settlement (on the basis proper intervention from 
Metro would have avoided the losses).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman