DRN-3880680
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) didnt provide her 
with the services she was entitled to when handling her car insurance claim.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont go into detail but will 
summarise the key points. Mrs S was involved in an accident but complained to Acromas as 
she felt they didnt provide her with the benefits she shouldve received under her policy. She 
said she was informed she would need to get public transport home and wasnt offered an 
overnight stay in a hotel. Mrs S said she was left at roadside services and had to arrange for 
her breakdown cover to take her home. Mrs S also said she was still waiting to hear back 
from Acromas about driver confidence lessons. 
Acromas responded and accepted Mrs S wasnt offered the service she was entitled to and 
arranged for a compensation payment of £400 to be paid. They also explained theyd 
contacted a company about the driver confidence lessons.     
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs S. He agreed Acromas had made an error but, in 
addition to the £400 already paid, he recommended they should offer an additional £100 for 
the service provided in relation to the driver confidence lessons. Mrs S and Acromas 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mrs S. The key facts about the complaint relating 
to not offering Mrs S the benefits she was entitled to and communication issues, arent in 
dispute. Acromas have admitted they got things wrong and paid compensation for this  and 
I think the £400 theyve paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The only issue I 
have to decide is whether theres been any error in their handling of the driver lessons. 
I can see the legal protection section of Mrs Ss policy provides cover for driver confidence 
coaching lessons. It goes further to say no cover will be provided for claims not reported 
within 90 days of the event. While the underwriter for this section of Mrs Ss policy isnt 
Acromas, Ive looked to see whether any errors have been made by Acromas when handling 
Mrs Ss request for these lessons. I can see Acromas originally did make a referral on      
Mrs Ss behalf a few weeks after the incident in July 2022. Mrs S called Acromas in August 
to say shes frustrated she hasnt received an update relating to the lessons. Acromas then 
provided Mrs S with the phone number to contact to arrange the lessons. Mrs S then called 
Acromas and explained the company cant provide lessons in Mrs Ss area. 
Acromas then sent emails in September to the driving company and asked them to contact  
Mrs S. They explained Mrs S hasnt driven since the incident due to a lack of confidence. 
They explained they understand Mrs S was informed the lessons arent available in her area 
and asked if its possible to arrange for her to attend a course with another provider or for 
them to find an instructor in her area. Theres then a note dated 1 December which shows 
Acromas made a call to the broker and asked if they would consider the lessons now as its 
passed the 90 days time limit and theyre told it would be down to their assessment of 
individual circumstances, but Mrs S will need to call them.
I can see our investigator asked Acromas if, following the call in December, they contacted 
Mrs S to let her know she needs to call the broker. Acromas confirmed their notes dont 
show they contacted Mrs S to let her know she needs to call the broker to enable them to 
assess whether they can offer the lessons. I do acknowledge they did previously give Mrs S 
the relevant number to call but the information shows, after Mrs S was told the company 
couldnt provide the lessons in her area, Acromas then take this forward. I think the emails 
they sent in September demonstrates their agreement to pursue lines of enquiry in relation 
to the lessons. So, despite having their number, I dont think it was unreasonable in these 
circumstances for Mrs S to have made no further contact with either the broker or driving 
company. That being the case, I think its reasonable for Acromas to have then kept on top 
of things. But, no further action is then taken until the phone call in December  and even 
after that point, Acromas dont get back to Mrs S to let her know she needs to contact the 
broker on the number provided in her policy booklet.     
So, I think its right that Acromas should compensate Mrs S for the upset and inconvenience 
caused by their poor service in this respect. The issues relating to this part of the complaint 
largely occurred after Acromas made their offer of £400, so I think its fair for them to pay 
Mrs S an additional amount of compensation for the impact caused by the events here. To 
help decide what a fair and reasonable level of compensation should be, Ive looked at what 
the impact of this error has been. 
The information shows Mrs S was very nervous and anxious about driving a car again  and 
lacked confidence. The call notes show Acromas were aware of this and their emails in 
September say Mrs Ss confidence has been completely knocked The information also 
shows Acromas were aware that, despite Mrs S having purchased a new car, because of the 
confidence issue - she hadnt driven since the incident and was therefore using public 
transport. I accept that, overall, Acromas did take sufficient steps to assist Mrs S during the 
relevant 90 days following the incident  so I dont think they should be responsible for 
meeting the costs of the lessons if the broker or relevant underwriter decides they cant offer 
the lessons now. 
But, theres a lack of action taken by Acromas from October to December  during which 
time they couldve chased. And then, following their phone call with the broker in December, 
they shouldve let Mrs S know the next steps are for her to call the broker  this wouldve 
enabled her to move things forward. 
These steps werent taken during a time Acromas knew  Mrs S was upset and 
inconvenienced. So, in addition to the £400 already paid, I think its fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances for Acromas to pay an additional £100 to Mrs S.
  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Acromas have made an error in their handling of Mrs Ss request for 
the driver confidence lessons. So, in addition to the £400 already paid to Mrs S, they should pay an additional £100 for the upset and inconvenience  bringing the total paid for this 
complaint to £500. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Acromas Insurance Company Limited have 
already paid £400 compensation  so they must pay Mrs S an additional £100 to bring the 
total amount of compensation paid to £500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman