DRN-2902115
The complaint
Ms H (by way of her representative) has complained that Mutual Clothing and Supply 
Company Limited (Mutual) gave her unaffordable loans. 
 
What happened
Ms H took 10 loans from Mutual between May 2015 and February 2018. A summary of her 
borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Mutual can be found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)Weekly repayment 
cost per loan
1 £350.00 23/05/2015 02/03/2016 51 £9.60
2 £500.00 10/10/2015 23/11/2016 51 £13.72
3 £250.00 12/12/2015 25/01/2017 51 £6.86
4 £210.00 05/03/2016 24/05/2017 51 £9.60
5 £500.00 19/11/2016 07/02/2018 51 £13.72
6 £200.00 10/12/2016 20/12/2017 51 £5.49
7 £150.00 17/12/2016 13/12/2017 51 £4.11
8 £500.00 05/08/2017 outstanding 102 £7.59
9 £500.00 09/12/2017 outstanding 102 £7.59
10 £500.00 10/02/2018 outstanding 51 £13.72
It seems Ms H has had some problems repaying her final loans and Mutual says an 
outstanding balance remains. 
An adjudicator looked as Ms Hs case and he thought by loan 5 Mutual ought to have 
realised that her overall pattern of lending was showing signs that these loans had become 
unsustainable for her. So, the adjudicator thought Mutual was wrong to continue approving 
loans from loan 5 onwards. As a result, loans 5 - 10 were also upheld.
It appears that Ms H agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Mutual didnt agree, and in response it provided us a lengthy report with annexes. I want to 
make it clear, that I have read, in full the response weve received from Mutual. A summary 
of what Mutual says can be found below;
These loans are not high interest or expensive.
There are important differences in a home credit loan to other forms of high cost 
short-term credit which the adjudicator hasnt taken into consideration.
It could see no indication that this lending was spiralling out of control or that the 
amounts lent were increasing unsustainably.
Mutual assess the affordability, creditworthiness and sustainability of the lending 
robustly in a manual underwriting assessment. Rules do not prescribe how this 
assessment should be made. 
Based on the information Mutual gathered the loans looked sustainable. 
There was a considerable gap between the provision of each loan.
In a recent court case, the judge said it might be fair to lend up to four loans per year 
(but more may indicate financial difficulty). So, the number of times Mutual lent does 
not indicate unsustainable borrowing.
Taking 10 loans over 4 years is different to taking 10 loans in 1 year. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time these loans were provided.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms H could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms H. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mutual was required to establish 
whether Ms H could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Hs complaint. 
Loans 1-4
The adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint about these loans and she seems to have 
accepted his findings. 
So, I wont comment further on these loans, or the level of individual checks Mutual 
completed before approving these loans, as I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement 
about them. But as these loans form part of the borrowing relationship Ms H had with the 
lender, they are something I have taken into account when considering the later loans she 
borrowed.
Loans 5-10
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Ms H.      
It also concerns our approach to repeat lending. We have responded to Mutual on these 
issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published decisions on 
our website. So, Im not going deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe loans 5-10 as high cost credit, as
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its 
identified high cost credit portfolio. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example, 
a payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And,
as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not
said anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside
everything else in making my decision.
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 5-10 were proportionate 
and Ill explain why below. But I will say that Ive not found Mutuals suggestion that it 
gathered more and more information about Ms Hs expenditure to be persuasive in showing 
the loans were affordable and sustainable. It looks like, based on what has been provided, 
that Mutual took the same sort of information for each loan that being asking Ms H about her 
(and the household) expenditure as well as her income. Although I have no information 
about what Ms H told Mutual took for loans 3  5 and the application form for loan 7 is blank.   
Theres no real detailed analysis of this apparent increasing volume of information. So, Im 
not clear how this argument supports that the loans were properly lent. Furthermore, at this 
stage in the lending relationship I dont think it was reasonable of Mutual to have relied solely 
on what Ms H was telling it.
Mutual also says it carried out a credit check and it says in the final response letter that the 
manager who approved the lending wouldve reviewed it as part of the underwriting process. 
But no credit checks have been provided (and no credit report has been provided by Ms H) 
so I cant place any weight on this check and what it may have shown Mutual about Ms Hs 
financial position.  
Mutual also says that each loan wouldve been thoroughly discussed with Ms H to build up a 
detailed picture as to whether she could afford the loan. But Mutual says that bank 
statements wouldnt be checked (or indeed be proportionate to check for each loan 
application). I agree with this in part, but there does become a point, in every lending 
relationship for a number of reasons that the checks needed to be move beyond just asking a consumer about their income and expenditure and actually asking for evidence of what 
they were declaring. 
Mutual has commented on the gaps between loans. But Mutual seem to be considering gaps 
as the difference in time between each new loan being approved. Whereas, any gap, in our 
view, needs to be considered from when a loan is repaid to when a new loan is taken out. 
So, looking at the loan history, in its totality, there are no gaps in lending, and it seem that 
Ms H spent around nearly 33 months borrowing from Mutual, with her last three loans 
remaining outstanding some three years after they were taken. 
It does appear based on the income and expenditure information Ms G provided, Mutual 
could see the loans were likely affordable for her. But, I dont think its checks went far 
enough and it had now reached the point, in my view that there was evidence were no 
longer sustainable for her. 
As I have explained, I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for 
these loans because I didnt consider it necessary to do so. Indeed, Id be inclined to think 
that from loan 5, Mutuals checks really needed to go further than just relying on the 
information Ms H told it.
At this point in the lending relationship, taking into account the number of loans, the time 
spent in debt, the fact that Ms H had a number of overlapping loans ought to have led Mutual 
to conclude that it shouldve been verifying Ms Hs income and overall expenditure in order 
to have an accurate understanding of her actual financial position.
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to
Ms H, Mutual also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded 
during the course of its lending relationship with Ms H. 
I think Mutual was wrong to have provided loans 5-10 because Ms H wasnt in a position to 
sustainably repay them for the following reasons:
By loan 5, Ms H had been indebted to Mutual for nearly 17 months. During this time, 
she had taken four loans which were due to run for a year with no breaks in between 
loans. So Mutual ought to have realised it was more likely that Ms H was having 
longer term problems as the need for credit continued.
Based on the loan term it seems that Ms H had some problems repaying her earlier 
loans. So, at the time of loan 5, Mutual wouldve know that loans 2 and 3 had taken 
longer than the 51 weeks to repay. Taking longer to repay a loan is often a sign that 
a customer is having difficulties meeting their repayments. Indeed, loan 4 also took 
longer than the 51 weeks to repay, but that wouldnt have been apparent at the time 
when 5 was granted but wouldve been known by the time loan 8 was approved. 
Ms H also had some problems repaying her later loans (8  10) which on top of the 
loan history, indicating that she was having financial problems and these loans 
werent sustainable for her. 
Ms H was regularly making repayments to a number of loans at the same time. There 
were four outstanding loans when loan 5 was approved, and at times she had up to 
five loans running concurrently. This suggests that Ms H wasnt making any real 
improvements to the amount she owed Mutual. She went on to exhibit the same 
pattern of borrowing for her subsequent loans  regularly having at least four loans 
running concurrently.The monthly repayments for loan 5 were Ms Hs largest loan repayments to date. 
The repayments for this loan was around five times more than what Ms H initially 
paid for her first loan due to the fact that Ms H was repaying a number of loans 
concurrently.  And the weekly and monthly repayments continued to remain high over 
the remainder of the borrowing relationship. So, Ms Hs overall indebtedness to 
Mutual wasnt significantly decreasing over time.
I think that Ms H lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan 8 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Hs indebtedness by allowing
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans which Ms H borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Ms Hs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these loans.
So, overall, having considered everything Im intending to uphold Ms Hs complaint as I think 
Mutual were wrong to approve loans 5-10 for these reasons.
I appreciate Mutual has says that the FCA has said concurrent lending is promoted by the 
FCA because in all cases it is better for the consumer. I agree, to an extent, that in the 
FCAs August 2020 relending by high cost lenders report the FCA did conclude;
Refinancing is more expensive overall than concurrent lending and customers 
should be able to make informed borrowing decisions
But that doesnt mean the requirements in CONC to carry out proportionate checks and to 
consider sustainability are set aside. Nor has the FCA said that in all situations is it better for 
the consumer. And in this case, for the reasons Ive explained above, I do think having 5 
loans running at the same time suggested a wider financial problem considering in my view 
a rigorous affordability assessment hasnt been carried out. 
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate
Credit International Limited. It has essentially said that the judge in this case said that the
relationship could be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under
four loans a year. Mutual said, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, 
on the same basis as the court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was talking
about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, with some
different considerations than whether a loan or series of loans, has been lent irresponsibly.
I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows
that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this judgement
was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home collected
credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different
considerations. And, indeed, has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of
short term high cost credit providers. So, this means that the judges conclusions about a
differently structured product shouldnt and cant be directly applied here.And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect in deciding whether a lending 
pattern is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to 
be also looked at, as Ive done here.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any
arguments which persuade me to change my opinion about Ms Hs complaint.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not approved loan 5 onwards as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending, Ms H may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, Ms H may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed, a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms H in a compliant way at this time.
 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms H would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
If Mutual has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Mutual is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms H towards 
interest, fees and charges on loans 5 - 7.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms H which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms H 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settle.
C) Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loans 8 
- 10, and treat any repayments made by Ms H as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms H having 
made overpayments then Mutual should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
can be used to repay any balance remaining on loans 8 - 10. If this results in a 
surplus then the surplus should be paid to Ms H. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Mutual should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Ms H. Id remind Mutual of its obligation to treat Ms H fairly with any 
repayment plan.  E) The overall pattern of Ms Hs borrowing for loans 5  10 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Mutual should remove these loans entirely 
from Ms Hs. Mutual do not have to remove loans 8 - 10 from Ms Hs credit file 
until these have been repaid. But Mutual should still remove any adverse 
information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should give 
Ms H a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Hs complaint in part.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right for Ms H as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman