DRN-2774609
The complaint
Mr R complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc handled his claim for damage to his home 
under his home insurance policy very poorly.
What happened
I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and also here. 
I said that Mr Rs home suffered extensive downstairs damage following an escape of water 
in May 2019. Mr R said there were problems with the stripping out process as AXAs 
contractors were uncertain of the tasks required. He said this caused delays and problems 
followed with the drying out of the property and subsequently the repairs. 
The reinstatement work began in October 2019 and Mr Rs kitchen units and gas fire were 
damaged by AXAs contractors. AXA sought a 50% contribution from Mr R to make good the 
damage caused by its contractor, but later conceded it should meet this cost in full. AXAs 
agent returned Mr Rs furniture from storage at the wrong time and it had to be returned to 
storage. In January 2020 Mr R compiled a snagging list and In March he identified further 
snags, including to his kitchen worktop. 
Mr R is dissatisfied with the management of the claim by AXA because of the delays and 
poor communications, and because he had to continually chase progress. He said this has 
caused himself and his family considerable distress and inconvenience.
AXA said that after its initial validation of the claim a settlement was agreed, and Mr R 
appointed his own builder. AXA said there was a misunderstanding about the work required 
and Mr R was dissatisfied with his builders work. AXA said thereafter additional damage and 
costs were identified and in response it then appointed loss adjusters to manage the claim.  
AXA apologised for its poor service and corrected the faulty repair work. AXA paid towards 
other repairs and paid Mr R £850 compensation. Mr R thought this wasnt enough to resolve 
his complaint and he referred it to us. He said AXA had mishandled the claim by failing to 
appoint a loss adjuster causing him problems with his builder. Mr R said AXA initially made 
an inadequate offer to settle the claim and took five weeks to agree to the kitchen work and 
only wanted to pay 50% despite being due to their contractors poor work. 
My provisional findings and the parties responses
In my provisional decision I said our role is to determine if there have been avoidable 
problems with the handling of a policyholders claim such as delay and confusion, for which 
an award of compensation might be appropriate.
I understood that all of the work on Mr Rs claim has been completed including the work that 
had to be re-done. I looked closely at AXAs handling of Mr Rs claim and the decisions it 
took to see if the compensation of £850 it has paid him is fair in all of the circumstances.
I said that it was clear there were problems with Mr Rs claim concerning delays and poor 
communications. I was pleased AXA had apologised and rectified the poor work at Mr Rs 
home. I thought these problems could have been avoided by the prompt appointment of a 
loss adjuster to manage the claim and coordinate the various contractors. I thought this 
would have reduced the delays and problems with the stripping out and drying. I didnt think 
AXA should have attempted to gain a contribution from Mr R for the repairs to his kitchen 
units that its contractors caused  this was unfair and Im pleased AXA realised this.
It appeared to me that AXA underestimated the extent of the damage and made a very small 
offer to settle the claim. I thought Mr R wanted a cash settlement until he realised the work 
was more involved than first thought. The strip out work was inadequate, and this prolonged 
the time taken to dry the property out. I thought AXAs approach to the claim caused Mr R to 
spend much more time than would be normally necessary to pursue progress. And its delays 
continued with slow agreement to kitchen work and hold ups from contractors.
I thought there had been poor service by AXA in its delays, poor workmanship and poor 
communications. I thought Mr R had suffered very significant distress and inconvenience 
and I thought that this merits compensation of £1,250. AXA had already paid Mr R £850 and 
so I was minded to require it to pay him further compensation of £400. 
Mr R said he agreed with the provisional decision. AXA had no further comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given what the parties to the dispute have said and having reconsidered the complaint, I 
remain of the view that it should be upheld and for the reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision. 
It follows that AXA should pay Mr R further compensation of £400 for the impact of the poor 
service that he received during his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld.
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr R a total of £1,250 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience he has suffered. AXA can deduct the £850 compensation it has already 
paid Mr R from this award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman