DRN-3326150
The complaint
Mr W has complained about his car insurer Aviva Insurance Limited as, following the theft of 
his two cars, he felt it had taken too long to progress the claims and it had unfairly withdrawn 
the hire car initially provided under the policy. 
What happened
Mr Ws cars were stolen on 24 July 2021. He was given a hire car, but this was withdrawn a 
few days later. He said  Aviva told him it was investigating matters but then wouldnt tell him 
exactly what it was investigating. He said he provided the evidence it asked for but then 
Aviva wanted further  evidence. He said when he tried to talk to Aviva it was always 
someone different, promised call backs werent received and when he called he always had 
to wait. He said he wasnt allowed to speak to the person deciding his claim and couldnt 
understand why, when the police had accepted the circumstances of the theft, and Aviva 
seemed to have received all of the evidence it had wanted to see, that its  claim decision 
remained  outstanding.
When Mr W complained  to Aviva, it noted his concerns but said its investigations were 
on-going and there was limited detail it could provide. On 11 October 2021 Mr W complained 
to us. He later updated that a meeting with Aviva had taken place in November 2021 and 
Aviva had since voided the policy (treated it as though it had never existed). A separate 
complaint was made about that  but Mr W confirmed he was still unhappy about what had 
happened with the claim, prior to him making this complaint about delays. In respect of the 
delays Mr M said hed incurred costs which he wanted Aviva to refund with interest. He also 
thought Aviva should pay compensation to him and a friend who had been assisting him with 
the claims and complaints. He said the Aviva complaints process had been flawed. He said 
he wanted us to force Aviva to change its processes, so others didnt suffer like he had 
done,  in the future.
Our investigator felt that Aviva had acted fairly and reasonably in respect of the courtesy car. 
Regarding how Aviva had handled the complaint, the investigator explained we couldnt 
consider that. And regarding how Aviva had otherwise acted, he felt it had handled things 
fairly and reasonably.
Mr W said he still felt the policy decision should have been reached sooner, that it wouldve 
been if Aviva had managed things properly. He asked for an ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
our remit
I cant consider how Aviva handled Mr Ws complaint. Complaint handling is not a regulated 
activity and I can only look at regulated activities, given our rules under which we operate.
If Mr W has incurred costs and suffered upset, that is unfortunate. But it is only if that has 
come about due to failings on the part of Aviva, that I can make an award against it 
compensating him for those losses, whether financial or non-financial. Even where I find 
failings, I can only make findings and awards in respect of the eligible complainant  Mr W 
and not his friend. And it isnt my role to make an insurer change their processes  this 
service isnt the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority is. My focus has to be on Mr W 
and how Aviva handled his claim. 
hire car
Mr Ws policy does entitle him to a hire car. And when most claims are made. many insurers 
will provisionally take the claim at face value, offering the insured the policy benefits 
available, particularly those which minimise the upset and disruption caused to the 
policyholder by the loss, as if  a fully validated and accepted claim is in place. Thats a 
reasonable thing for an insurer to do. But as such provisions are, strictly speaking, only 
available when a claim has been validated, if an insurer becomes aware of things that might 
mean the claim wont succeed, it isnt necessarily unreasonable for them to withdraw the 
provisionally granted policy benefits. 
Here the claim was logged by Aviva on 25 July 2021 and on 26 July 2021 it was made 
aware that Mr W needed a hire car. That was arranged. But Aviva then became aware of 
evidence that gave it cause to think the claim might not be accepted and on 27 July 2021 it 
told Mr W it was withdrawing the hire car. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances. 
claims handling
Ive considered Avivas file. I cant see that any call backs were promised that werent made. 
And I dont think there were any unreasonable delays. From what I have seen, between the 
date of the claim in July 2021 and the date Mr W complained to us in October 2021, Aviva 
was pro-actively pursuing its various lines of enquiry. And what Aviva needs to consider in 
respect of a claim under an insurance policy will be very different to what the police need to 
consider, who are looking at this from a very different perspective. So whilst the police might 
be satisfied that a crime occurred  that wouldnt mean an insurer must accept its a valid 
claim.
I know Mr W felt that Avivas investigations were all a bit piecemeal  that it would have been 
better if Aviva had just asked him what it wanted to know, and then he could have told it. But 
that is not always a reasonable or even possible way for some claim investigations to 
progress. It is a fact of some investigations that one enquiry may lead to another, or 
sometimes requested evidence isnt sufficient, so it becomes necessary to look, or ask, for 
more. Ive considered Avivas concerns against what evidence it was looking for, how it 
progressed those enquires and how they in turn developed as required information was 
gathered. I think Aviva progressed things fairly and reasonably.
I accept that it would be frustrating for Mr W to not know what was going on, including the 
nature of and reason for Avivas on-going enquiries. But I think Aviva did update him when it 
could, with what it could. For example, he says he was told in around early August 2021 that 
something had come to light which Aviva was investigating. And, during August and the 
early part of September, Mr Ws friend was informed Aviva was waiting for CCTV footage. 
I know that once this was received (on 13 September 2021) Mr W felt Aviva then took too 
long considering it. But I bear in mind that whilst the CCTV footage was relevant to Avivas 
consideration of the theft claim, it has since voided the policy. Meaning the claim now falls 
away since there is no policy against which it can be made. So the CCTV footage being 
obtained was important to Aviva but clearly not its only line of enquiry. I think Aviva updated Mr W at reasonable periods with as relevant an update as it was reasonably able to provide 
given its on-going enquiries.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman