DRN-1067848
The complaint
Mrs H says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mrs H was sold PPI in 2000 sometime after taking out a credit card. Barclays said the PPI 
wasnt mis-sold, but paid back some commission and profit share it received. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld and that the refund Barclays paid 
was fair. Mrs H disagreed, so Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold for the following reasons.
Mrs H had received her credit card before the PPI was sold to her. So I think she wouldve 
known that she didnt have to take the PPI to get the credit card. Theres limited information 
available from the time of sale, which is understandable given how long ago it was. And it 
appears that Mrs H doesnt have a clear recollection of the sale. So, theres not enough 
evidence to make me conclude that she didnt consent to having the PPI. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs H so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. 
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Barclays has paid back some cost of the PPI to Mrs H because it got a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told 
Mrs H about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs H, that was unfair. To put that right, 
Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of 
the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said. But these points dont change my decision.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman