DRN-2695070
The complaint
Ms S has complained about Gresham Insurance Company Limiteds decision to reject a 
claim she made for flood damage under her home insurance policy. Ms S is also unhappy 
with the way the claim was handled and that her premium increased as a result of the claim, 
even though it was rejected. 
What happened
In December 2019, Ms S reported to her insurer, Gresham that there was damage to the 
floor in her kitchen and dining room sub floor due to recent flooding. Ms S was concerned 
that although no water came above the tiles, it did reach just below floorboard level and had 
to be pumped out by the Fire Services over a number of days.
Ms S first thought everything was ok, but then noticed that her floor had dropped and there 
were cracks showing. Ms S thought some of the sub floor may have been washed away.
Ms S explained that a few of her neighbours were suffering similar damage due to the flood 
and were having new floors put in.
Gresham said it would arrange for a contractor to visit Ms S and inspect the damage to 
consider her claim. 
In December 2019 a contractor visited Ms Ss property, but told her he considered himself 
under qualified to make an assessment. So he arranged for a structural engineer to visit Ms 
Ss home. This took place in March 2020. 
Based on the report provided by the structural engineer, Gresham declined Ms Ss claim as 
it said there wasnt enough to show the damage was definitely caused by flood. 
Ms S was unhappy with Greshams decision and asked us to look at her complaint. She said 
she was originally given the option to either agree to a cash settlement without Gresham 
assessing the damage, or use Greshams preferred contractors. As she chose the second 
option, she feels shes been treated unfairly as her claim has been dismissed. Ms S said that 
her neighbours - including one attached to her property - also had structural engineers and 
have already had their claims settled in full. She doesnt feel its fair that an adjoining 
property can be deemed as having flood damage, but hers hasnt. 
Ms S received a letter in April 2020 confirming her No Claims Discount (NCD) has been 
reduced as a result of the settled claim and her premium went up by £312.29. Ms S is very 
unhappy about this as her claim wasnt settled.
Our investigator recommended Ms Ss complaint shouldnt be upheld.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 March 2021. I thought the structural engineers report 
showed that damage to the floor was caused by flood. So I thought Gresham should meet 
Ms Ss claim. And I thought it should pay Ms S £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
I asked Gresham to investigate why Ms S received a letter from her broker confirming the 
claim had been settled and why her premium had increased by the amount it had. Both 
parties replied to my provisional decision.
Ms S accepted my provisional decision. But she raised concerns as to who would carry out 
the repairs, given Greshams contractor felt under qualified to make an assessment when 
they visited. She asked if Gresham will appoint the same contractors again or pay her a cash 
settlement and arrange her own repairs.
Gresham has now dealt with Ms Ss concerns about the brokers letter and the rise in 
premium as a separate complaint. It said Ms S wanted the structural engineer to dig the floor 
up as part of the repairs, but hed told her this wasnt necessary. Gresham wants clarification 
that Im not asking for such repairs, but for it to carry out the repairs as recommended by the 
structural engineer.
I explained to both parties that the engineers recommendation for repairs doesnt include 
removing the structural floor  unless once repairs start, further damage is discovered, which 
seems fair and reasonable. 
Ms S remains concerned about having the same contractors that first visited carry out the 
repairs. She is worried that they may discover further damage, but be unqualified to continue 
and cause further disruption and delay. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ss home insurance policy says it will provide cover for loss or damage to the building 
caused by flood. Gresham says it wont provide cover for damage that happens gradually. 
This isnt an unusual exclusion
Gresham relied on the report provided by the structural engineer to decide not to meet Ms 
Ss claim. The engineer was able to access under the floor when he visited and provided 
photos of the flooring to support his report. The key comments from the structural engineers 
report dated 6 March 2020 are in the conclusion. He wrote:
We are of the opinion that as a result of the flooding and the level it rose to, it would 
not be inconceivable that the sub floor/compacted floor below the ground floor 
bearing slab became saturated. This would result in slight settlements to occur to the 
concrete floor. This is now apparent to the floor finishes and the door thresholds.
The settlements and damage is very minor and we do not envisage the defects to be 
progressive. We are of the opinion general repairs can be carried out and without 
major disturbance to the property and removal of the structural floor is not necessary 
in this instance. However, if during the repair/reinstatement of the floor covering, 
more severe defects are encountered a further visit from this office should be 
considered. 
The engineer went on to set out the recommended repairs including removal of the laminate 
and vinyl flooring in the kitchen and reception room. Gresham provided its complaint notes to show that Ms S was unhappy with its decision in 
March 2020. Notes show that Gresham rejected her claim because the engineer cannot 
confirm or deny the damage was caused by flood. 
However, I think the engineer is satisfied that the damage Ms S claimed for could have been 
caused by flood. So I dont think Gresham properly considered Ms Ss claim. I think it should 
have arranged for the recommended repairs to be carried out in line with the engineers 
report and dealt with the claim. And I think - if further damage might be identified - then this 
should be considered in line with the engineers recommendations. 
Its for the insurer to make sure efficient and long lasting repairs are carried out in line with 
the policy. If during the repairs any new concerns arise, Ms S can raise her concerns with 
Gresham as a new complaint. 
Its at the discretion of Gresham to decide to settle the claim by paying a cash settlement for 
the repairs. 
So based on what Ive seen, I think Gresham acted unreasonably in declining Ms Ss claim. I 
think it should now meet the claim and pay Ms S £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Gresham Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
meet Ms Ss claim for flood damage to her property in line with the policy terms. 
pay Ms S £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Gresham Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Ms S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Gresham Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms S how much its taken off. 
It should also give Ms S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman