DRN-3434863
The complaint
Mr M complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) has prevented him from being 
able to view his investment account online.
What happened
In November 2020 Mr M opened up an investment account with HSDL. He was sent an 
email on 6 November 2020 saying his account would be able to be viewed online within two 
days. In December, Mr M still wasnt able to view his account. He called Halifax  where he 
held his online bank account  and says he was told he wouldnt be able to view his 
investment account online. He was then passed to HSDL and was told the issue would be 
investigated but they couldnt provide a timescale and he could use the telephone service in 
the meantime. He was given £50 compensation for an issue with an email that went 
unanswered.
Mr M wasnt happy and referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in 
February 2021 as he still couldnt access his account. Our Investigator recommended HSDL 
pay Mr M a total of £150 compensation. He explained that although Mr M couldve used the 
telephone service, he could reasonably have expected to have access online and this hadnt 
been provided.
HSDL disagreed. It said that the terms of the account say that when the online service is 
unavailable, a telephone service could be used. It said that as Mr M couldve used this 
telephone service, it hadnt done anything wrong. It also said that HSDL is separate to 
Mr Ms banking service and he shouldve contacted it directly rather than going through his 
bank which couldve prevented some of the issues. As it didnt accept our Investigators 
view, it asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Much of the confusion that has been caused in this case is because Mr M has been under 
the impression that his HSDL account is run in the same way has his bank account  by the 
same entity. This isnt the case. However, I can see why he believed it to be. All of the 
correspondence he has received refers to Halifax. Hes been directed to his online banking 
account and, aside from the small print at the bottom of emails, theres no reference to 
HSDL. So, I first want to set out that I think it was reasonable for Mr M to be contacting his 
bank directly whilst trying to resolve the issue.
I can also see that he was told his account would be accessible online when he opened it. 
And this wasnt the case for quite some time. I fully acknowledge that the terms of the 
account provide for a telephone service to be used when the online service is unavailable. 
But I think its reasonable for Mr M to have thought that any issues to online access would be 
a temporary issue resolved quickly. But this didnt happen here, the issue remained 
unresolved for months. Mr M signed up to an online investment account, so I think it was 
reasonable to expect him to be able to access this online within a reasonable timeframe. I 
cant see that HSDL did enough to help Mr M through this process. Raising an enquiry and 
explaining theres no set date to resolve the issue didnt go far enough. Im pleased Mr M 
had access to his account over the telephone during this time, but I think the months he 
spent without access online has caused him inconvenience and frustration.
As such, I think HSDL should pay Mr M a total of £150 compensation. Ive not seen anything 
to suggest it did enough to help him, and I dont accept that he shouldve known, from the 
correspondence Ive seen, to contact HSDL directly for the issue when all correspondence 
referred to Halifax Online Investments Service and had a standard Halifax.co.uk email 
address. Mr M had explained the issue multiple times, received conflicting information and 
wasnt able to access his account online for months.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Halifax Share Dealing Limited must 
pay Mr M a total of £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman