DRN-3457897
The complaint
Mr W complains that the policy for his vehicle was cancelled by Society of Lloyds. That he
only received a partial refund of his premium. And that he was forced to find insurance
elsewhere, on short notice, and at a higher cost.
What happened
Mr W owned a VW Transporter T32 which he self-converted into a campervan. Following the
conversion, the vehicle was insured via brokers, on a Motorhome and Campervan policy. Mr
W says hed told the brokers when he first insured the vehicle that despite the conversion,
the DVLA still classified the vehicle as a VW Transporter. And he provided them with a copy
of his V5 vehicle registration document which confirmed this.
The brokers were taken over and on 20 November 2020 the new brokers wrote to Mr W
reminding him that his policy was due for renewal on 20 December 2020. They
recommended that for the coming year they placed his policy with a different insurer, who
was part of the syndicate known as Society of Lloyds.
Mr W renewed his policy and paid the premium in full. On 22 December 2020 the brokers
sent him a letter confirming his cover had been renewed. This stated, in the second
paragraph, that because theyd placed him with a new insurer, they required information
from him. And on the second page of the letter there was a list of the further documents they
required. This list included his V5 and an engineers report for the work carried out on his
vehicle.
The letter also included the brokers terms of business, a Statement of Fact, Mr Ws Policy
Schedule, and his Motorhome Horizon insurance policy. Mr W was asked to sign and return
a copy of the terms of business, which he did.
On 7 January 2021 the brokers contacted Mr W as Society of Lloyds had requested further
documentation, including his V5 and an engineers report form. Mr W provided a copy of his
V5 on 14 January 2021 but said he didnt have an engineers report. The brokers then asked 
him to provide photos of the interior of the vehicle so they could refer these to the insurers.
He provided these on 25 January 2021. But he was advised that Society of Lloyds couldnt
cover his vehicle as it wasnt classified as a campervan on his V5, and they needed an
engineers report for the conversion.
Mr Ws policy was cancelled on 26 January 2021.
Mr W says that at no point during the renewal process was he told that to renew his policy,
his vehicle had to classified by the DVLA as a campervan. He knew that his vehicle wasnt
classified as a campervan, and as hed provided a copy of his V5 to the brokers, they should
also have been aware of this.
Following the cancellation of his policy, Mr W received a refund of £56.29. This was the
premium hed paid, less deductions for the period of cover hed had, commission,
cancellation fees and a refund fee. Mr W had to arrange cover with another insurer which
he's told us was more expensive than the policy that was cancelled.
Mr W complained and the brokers replied to his complaint, issuing a final response letter. Mr
W wasnt aware that they hadnt notified Society of Lloyds of his complaint. In their response
the brokers simply said that they were sorry they hadnt been able to mutually resolve his
complaint and provided referral rights to our service.
So Mr W then complained to our service.
After hed done this it became clear that the brokers had responded to Mr W on behalf of the
underwriters but hadnt notified them of the complaint. So our investigator notified them of
the complaint on Mr Ws behalf. And they told us they wanted the opportunity to investigate
the complaint. Mr Ws policy is underwritten by one of the insurers who form part of the
syndicate known as the Society of Lloyds. They have a two-stage complaint procedure.
A response to Mr Ws complaint was issued under the first part of this complaint procedure
on 26 August 2021. It appears that Mr W never received this letter. But it said his complaint
wasnt upheld, as if theyd known his vehicle hadnt been converted to a motorhome on his
V5, they wouldnt have offered him cover.
It also said theyd provided a pro-rata refund of premium to his brokers, and they couldnt
comment on the fees or financial agreements Mr W had in place with his brokers.
As Mr W didnt receive the letter, he didnt respond. So, the second stage of the complaint
procedure wasnt triggered.
Our investigator then considered the case and felt that Society of Lloyds had done what
they should have done. He thought the requirements of the policy renewal had been made
clear to Mr W, as the welcome documents sent to Mr W said it was a condition of the
renewal that an engineers report along with his V5, were provided.
Our investigator also said Mr Ws policy defined a motorhome as a motorhome or
campervan whose details have been reported to and accepted by us. And as Society of
Lloyds didnt accept that Mr Ws vehicle could be considered as a motorhome, he didnt
meet the criteria for the policy. And the requirements for a motorhome were set out on page
20 of Mr Ws policy booklet.
These included the vehicles V5 being updated to show it had been registered as a
motorhome and evidence of the conversion. This could be an engineers report, or the
insurers completed declaration form with photographs. Our investigator was satisfied that Mr 
W hadnt met these requirements. So the policy terms and conditions entitled Society of
Lloyds to cancel his policy.
Society of Lloyds had given Mr W notice that the requirements for the policy must be met
within 30 days or theyd cancel his policy. They also said that if theyd known his vehicles V5
hadnt been updated they wouldnt have offered the policy.
Our investigator said that insurers set their own criteria for risk that they use to determine if
they want to offer insurance cover or not. And as Mr W didnt meet their criteria, they
werent obliged to continue to provide cover. So he felt Society of Lloyds had acted fairly in
cancelling the policy. And he considered the refund of Mr Ws premium was fair.
Mr W didnt accept our investigators opinion.
He responded by saying: -The brokers were aware that the vehicle had been converted back in 2019, having
previously arranged insurance for it.
The brokers were aware that his V5 didnt show the vehicle as a campervan, as hed
provided them with a copy when he first took out his insurance.
This important term was never brought to his attention.
The brokers said they couldnt offer him cover with another insurer while there was
an ongoing complaint.
He was told the complaint would take eight weeks to resolve so the brokers offer to
refund £146.29 if they insured his vehicle with another insurer was disingenuous.
He received the Welcome documents after hed paid for his policy.
His policy was cancelled on the basis that the vehicle type hadnt been updated on
his V5 to motorcaravan.
Such a fundamental condition should have been brought to his attention before
purchasing the insurance, not hidden in the welcome pack.
Hes not a specialist in motor insurance and relied on the brokers and insurers to
advise him before purchasing his insurance.
Society of Lloyds should have asked for a copy of his V5 before offering him cover.
Taking 80% of the premium to cover administration and cancellation fees isnt
reasonable when he only had cover for a month.
Our investigator responded to Mr W saying that any complaint about the broker being aware
of the status of his vehicle would have to be addressed to them, rather than Society of
Lloyds. As would the issue of the brokers offering him a higher refund if they could arrange
cover for him with another insurer.
In relation to the need for Mr W to provide an engineers report, our investigator said that this
was covered in the renewal letter dated 22 Dec 2020 he was sent. Which he says also
required him to provide a clear copy of his V5. Our investigator accepted that the renewal
letter doesnt refer to the V5 needing to show the vehicle as a motorcaravan. But he said this
wouldnt have changed the outcome, as the policy would have been cancelled anyway, as
there was no engineers report.
Our investigator went on to say that the welcome documents Mr W received told him to
check everything he received, to ensure they met his requirements. It was his responsibility
to check all his policy documents. Mr W was also asked to sign a copy of the terms of
business, once hed read all the documents, which he did. So it was reasonable for Society
of Lloyds to believe hed read all the documents.
In relation to the deductions from Mr Ws premium, our investigator said that he had the right
to cancel his policy within 14 days of it starting. And had he done so hed have been entitled
to the refund of his premium, less the cost of the cover he had. But as the policy was
cancelled after 30 days Society of Lloyds were entitled to deduct administration and
cancellation fees.
Our investigator said the Society of Lloyds wrote to Mr W on 7 January 2021 asking for
copies of the documents they requested. He said it wasnt their fault that Mr W hadnt
provided the necessary documents. He also said that this was the first time that Mr W told
them he didnt have an engineers report. And had they been made aware of this earlier they
wouldnt have provided cover.
Our investigator said hed also looked at The Insurance Conduct Of Business Sourcebook
(ICOBS). A handbook explaining the rules and best practices for an insurer. Section 8.1 sets
out the general rules an insurer must follow. One of these rules says an insurer must notunreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy). He considered
this and felt Society of Lloyds had acted reasonably in cancelling Mr Ws policy.
Mr W didnt feel that our investigator had addressed the points hed raised so the case came 
to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 February 2022. And in it I said: -
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The underwriters who provided Mr Ws policy are part of the syndicate known as Society of
Lloyds. To simplify things, Im going to refer to all actions taken by the underwriters, as
having been taken by Society of Lloyds.
Mr Ws policy with Society of Lloyds was arranged by a broker. His complaint is about the
cancellation of his policy and the refund he received following this. His policy was cancelled
by Society of Lloyds and they returned the premium hed paid to the brokers, less an
amount to cover the cost of the period his vehicle was on cover.
Im only able to consider the actions taken by Society of Lloyds, not the actions of the
brokers.
The policy was arranged for Mr W by his brokers. Had he dealt directly with Society of
Lloyds, they may well have asked to see copies of his V5 and an engineers report, before
they agreed to offer him cover. But this isnt what happened.
The letter Mr W received from the brokers with the welcome pack he was sent on 22
December 2020 said that as his cover was with a new insurer, they required further
documents from him, including his V5 and an engineers report. The letter also told him to
check all the documents he was sent to ensure the insurance cover met his needs.
Ive considered the Statement of Fact and Policy Schedule. The Statement of Fact says in
Section 8, headed Important Notes that the insurers reserve the right to decline any
insurance risk or change the premium and the terms quoted. So I think Mr W was put on
notice that further information was required before his cover was confirmed.
Mr Ws policy document includes, on page 9, a definition of a motorhome. Which is the
motorhome or campervan whose details have been reported to us and accepted by us and 
whose registration number is shown in your schedule. The details of Mr Ws vehicle are
correctly recorded on his policy schedule and, so far as he was aware at this point his
vehicle had been accepted by Society of Lloyds.
The general terms and conditions of the policy are set out on pages 19 to 21 of the policy.
These include, on page 20, Motorhome specifications and requirements. Which state Where
your motorhome has been converted, this must meet our minimum motorhome conversion
standard and the DVLA must be notified of the conversion. If the conversion has not been
completed by a professional, we will require evidence that the conversion has been
completed within 30 days of your cover starting. This can be in the form of:
1. An engineers report completed at the time of conversion with photographs
2. Our declaration (supplied with your documents) with photographs; or
3. The V5 document showing the vehicle has been re-registered as a motorhome and a    copy of the current MOT certificate.
The policy document also includes details of when the insurance may be cancelled. These
are set out on page 28 of the policy, and includes the following:
Your policy may be cancelled because  you have not provided documentation requested
by us or your insurance intermediary.
If Mr W hadnt been put on notice that Society of Lloyds required further documentation from
him, then I might agree that he hadnt been given proper notice of the requirements to
provide cover for his vehicle. But the need to provide these documents is set out in the letter
of 22 December 2020, and the Statement of Fact puts him on notice that the insurer
reserves the right to decline any risk.
Mr Ws policy was recommended to him by his brokers not arranged directly with Society of
Lloyds. The terms of business provided by the brokers, and signed by Mr W, state that part
of their role is to assess his needs and provide him with a personal recommendation
explaining why the product recommended best meets his requirements.
Based on the documentation Mr W was sent on renewal, Im persuaded that he should have
been aware that Society of Lloyds required his V5 and details of the conversion of his
vehicle, before confirming his cover. I cant hold them responsible for the cover being
unsuitable for Mr W, as it wasnt arranged directly with them.
And having established that Mr Ws V5 didnt show that his vehicle had been re-registered
as a motorhome I think that Society of Lloyds were entitled to cancel Mr Ws policy.
When the policy was cancelled, Society of Lloyds refunded Mr Ws premium to his brokers
less an amount for the period his vehicle had been on cover. This is what they were required
to do. Any other fees deducted are an issue between Mr W and his brokers, so I cant
comment further on these.
And I cant say that Society of Lloyds are responsible for the alternative insurance Mr W had
to arrange costing more than the policy they cancelled. Particularly as, had they had full
details of his vehicle, theyd never have provided cover.
So my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W has said that he doesnt accept my provisional decision. Hes says that he wasnt 
notified of the fundamental terms of the policy until after hed paid the premium and the 
policy was in place. And had he been, he wouldnt have proceeded as hed have known that 
he couldnt satisfy the insurers requirements.
He believes Society of Lloyds would have been able to establish his vehicle was a 
conversion, before issuing his policy, but didnt notify him or the brokers, that they required 
certain documentation, or information about the conversion, or the policy would be 
cancelled. He doesnt think this is fair.
And he says that the DVLA had announced, before his policy was issued, that it would not 
be amending V5s of vans that had been converted into motorhomes. He says Society of 
Lloyds would have been aware of this, so it would have been reasonable to ask either him, 
or the broker, if his V5 had been amended.
He also says that hes not sure how he could satisfy Society of Lloyds requirements when 
he wasnt notified of them in advance. And when he was notified, he provided a copy of his V5, he confirmed he didnt have an engineers report, he provided photos of the conversion 
and the required declaration and a copy of his MOT certificate.
He questions what more he could have done when the DVLA refuse to amend V5s in 
relation to conversions. He says that as far as he was aware, he complied with the general 
terms and conditions of the policy. And he believes Society of Lloyds should have brought 
such a fundamental condition to his attention, before he bought his policy, rather than hiding 
it in the terms and conditions issued after the policy was in place. He says this takes 
advantage of him, as he has no knowledge of the insurance market.
We asked Society of Lloyds whether they considered the change in the DVLAs 
requirements for changing the body type of a vehicle to motor caravan, when setting the 
requirements for accepting a vehicle on a motorhome policy. 
Theyve said: -
The crux of the issue is that at the time of cancellation, the customer did not provide 
evidence that they had registered the vehicle with the DVLA or provided us the validation 
documents for us as the insurer (photos and engineers report), to be satisfied of the 
conversion.
This is a specific motorhome scheme. Irrespective of whether the DVLA confirms if the 
vehicles body type is not changed to motor caravan, the vehicle can still be used for this 
purpose as long as the keeper is satisfied the converted vehicle meets the required internal 
features for motor caravans as per our policy terms we are entitled to cancel the policy, if we 
as the insurer, have not received the necessary evidence to satisfy our own requirements for 
vehicles to be acceptable on this scheme.
We provided a copy of Society of Lloyds response to Mr W. Hes said that he struggles to 
understand the insurers stance, as he doesnt see how he could provide the required 
evidence, when he was only notified of the requirements after hed paid his premium and 
received the policy documents setting these out. And he says that surely they were obliged 
to draw these terms to his attention before accepting payment of his premium.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ws frustration that his policy with Society of Lloyds was cancelled. But 
the policy was a specific motorhome scheme. Had Mr W arranged his policy with them 
direct, then I would have expected him to be notified of the policy requirements before he 
paid his premium and the policy was issued.
I accept that Mr W isnt a specialist in motor insurance. He says that because of this he 
relied on his brokers and Society of Lloyds when arranging his cover. His policy was 
recommended to him and arranged by brokers. He was put on notice when the brokers sent 
his welcome pack, that as his cover was with a new insurer, they required further documents 
from him. And the letter enclosing the welcome pack told him to check all the documents to 
ensure the insurance cover met his needs.
Im not considering the actions of the brokers, just those of Society of Lloyds. I cant say that 
they should have checked that his vehicle met the requirements of their motorhome scheme, 
before the policy was issued, as the policy was arranged by Mr Ws brokers. He was put on 
notice of the further documentation Society of Lloyds required. And when this wasnt provided his cover was cancelled in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. 
When the policy was cancelled Society of Lloyds refunded Mr Ws premium to his brokers 
less an amount for the period his vehicle had been on cover. This is what they were required 
to do. And as Ive said, the other fees deducted are an issue between Mr W and his brokers, 
so I cant comment on them.
And I cant say that Society of Lloyds are responsible for the alternative insurance Mr W had
to arrange costing more than the policy they cancelled. Particularly as, had they had full
details of his vehicle, theyd never have provided cover.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold Mr Ws complaint about Society of Lloyds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman