DRN-4082388
The complaint
Mrs W and Mrs D, in their capacity as executors of their late father, Mr Bs, estate, complain
that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) lost the original letters of
administration (LOA) they sent in to claim on his free-standing additional voluntary (FSAVC)
pension and his PruFund account. They say this caused a delay in his estate being wound
up.
As Mrs W has been corresponding with us about this, for ease of reference Ill refer to
her throughout.
What happened
There are a number of dates involved and I only intend to set out those which I think are key
to reaching my decision.
In or around July 2021, after Mrs W and Mrs Ds father sadly passed away a few months
before, they started the process of claiming on the policies hed held with Prudential. On
29 September 2021, Prudential wrote to Mrs W explaining it needed the original, or a sealed
copy, of the LOA and that it would return original documents.
On 11 October 2021, the LOA was granted. And, after Prudential wrote to Mrs W chasing
the requested information on 12 November 2021, she called it on 19 November 2021 and
then again on 21 December 2021 to discuss the claims. Mrs W says she sent the original
LOA to Prudential in mid-October 2021.
On 27 January 2022, after receiving a request to do so from Mrs W, Prudential returned the
LOA to Mrs W that it says it received from her on 13 January 2022. Both claims were paid,
but Mrs W had to contact Prudential several times asking for the original LOA to be returned.
And she complained it kept returning a photocopy when shed sent it the original, causing
delays in winding up their fathers estate.
In April 2022, Prudential sent Mrs W its final response letter, which said it hadnt received the
original LOA. It apologised for the customer service Mrs W had received though and offered
her £500 compensation for this.
Unhappy with this, Mrs W brought the complaint to our Service, adding that she had to get a
copy of the LOA from the probate office to continue dealing with her fathers estate, which
took weeks and meant the sale of his house was delayed, causing stress and worry that this
might fall through. And that she had to ask the solicitor who was dealing with the estate for
help chasing the probate office. Mrs W said Prudential passed her around and didnt get
back to her when she contacted it about returning the original. And that it now denies
receiving this, despite requiring it to release the funds. Mrs W said that, while shes happy
with the £500 compensation Prudentials paid, shed like it to apologise for the prolonged
grief caused to her family by it losing the original LOA.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and said that he has no reason to doubt
Mrs Ws testimony that she sent the original LOA in October 2021. He said more than one of
Prudentials departments was involved, so its likely there was miscommunication and that it
photocopied the original. And that, in any case, he didnt think Prudential would have paid
the claim without this. He said Mrs W isnt seeking further compensation and, in any case,
we cant award this for a complaint brought by an estate, but Prudential should apologise for
losing the original LOA.
While Mrs W accepted this outcome, Prudential didnt agree. It said, in summary, that while it
isnt allowed to suggest a customer photocopies an original legal document due to copyright
laws, if they send one in then it will accept this. Prudential said it doesnt photocopy original
documents, as this would add another step to its process of scanning documents directly on
to its system. It said its post team stamps documents to say whether these are originals or
photocopies. And that original documents are returned the same way these are received. It
said that it received a photocopy of the LOA from Mrs W on 13 January 2022, and it didnt
return this until she asked it to. Prudential said its post team keeps all documents received
for a few months and that theres no reason why it would have kept a photocopied version of
the LOA but not the original if it had received this. It also said that while two departments
dealt with the claims, it has one postal site and only received one LOA, which it cross
referenced for use with both claims.
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision. And I issued a provisional decision 
saying the following:
The compensation Prudential has paid Mrs W for the customer service relating to the return
of the LOA isnt in dispute, so I havent considered this any further. Instead, Ive considered
what I think is the crux of the complaint, being whether Prudential should provide an apology
if it misplaced the original LOA.
Mrs W says she sent Prudential the original LOA in mid-October 2021, while Prudential says
it received a photocopy of this from her in January 2022. As this is in dispute I have to
consider what I think is most likely, on balance, to have happened in all the circumstances.
Having carefully considered this, while I understand Mrs W will be disappointed, Im not
currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I recognise Prudential told Mrs W in its letter dated 29 September 2021 and during a call on
21 December 2021 to send the original or a sealed copy of the LOA. So it seems unusual to 
think shed send a photocopy and then chase the return of the original. That being said,
while I dont doubt Mrs Ws given her honest recollections of what she sent and when, I think
its fair to place most weight on the contemporaneous evidence available from the time.
I listened to a call Mrs W had with Prudential on 19 November 2021, where she said she
hadnt received its letter dated 29 September 2021. This means Mrs W didnt yet know in
October 2021 that she needed to send the original LOA in the way she recalls doing. And,
during the call on 21 December 2021, Mrs W said she now has the LOA and is ready to
send this, as shed picked it up from her sisters. So I think this shows Prudential wasnt sent
the LOA in October 2021. Instead it suggests the LOA was first sent to Prudential following
this call around the end of December 2021 or early January 2022. And this is in line with
evidence which shows Prudential received the LOA  that it marked as a photocopy  on
13 January 2022.
While Mrs Ws said Prudential must have received the original LOA as it told her this was
needed to process the claim, I think it has reasonably explained why it accepts photocopies
if a customer sends one in, despite asking for the original. And this means that the LOA
Prudential received from Mrs W in January 2022 didnt need to be the original for it to
process the claims.Prudential has explained that when its post team receives a photocopied document it stamps
these as such and then scans these onto its system. And I think its unlikely Prudential would
have taken a photocopy of the original LOA if it received this, considering this isnt part of its
process and would have meant duplicating work given it would still have had to scan this in.
I also think its unlikely Prudential would have mistakenly stamped the original as a
photocopy before scanning it in and then misplaced it, in light of the prominent seal an
original version has. Instead, I think its most likely Prudential marked the document from
Mrs W as a photocopy as this is what it received. This also reasonably explains why it wasnt
automatically returned to Mrs W. And I can see that the staff member who handled the return
of the LOA to Mrs W provided comments that the received version that it had kept was a
photocopy rather than the original.
In summary, for the reasons given, I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that
Prudential received the original LOA. Instead, I think Prudential likely received and paid the
claim on the basis of it receiving a photocopied version of this. While I recognise Mrs Ws
strength of feeling and that this matter occurred during an understandably difficult time for
her, this means I dont currently intend to uphold the complaint, so I wont be telling
Prudential to do anything to put things right.
While Prudential responded saying it had nothing to add, Mrs W didnt accept it. She added, 
in summary, that Mrs D dealt with probate and that they only had one original LOA. Mrs W 
said she sent this to Prudential for one of the products, as it was the first company she dealt 
with and because it asked for the original  she maintained it wouldnt have paid the claim 
without this. And that she sent Prudential a photocopy for the other product with it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Mrs Ws further comments, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
decision. 
Mrs W has confirmed she did send Prudential a photocopy of the LOA at some point. While 
its possible Mrs W also sent it the original in the way she recalls and I note shes previously 
suggested this was by recorded delivery, we havent been provided with evidence of this 
which shows if and when Prudential received it. Im also mindful recollections can fade and 
change and, as explained in my provisional decision, Mrs W recalls sending Prudential the 
original in October 2021 when the evidence from the time instead shows she first sent it a 
version of the LOA months later, around January 2022. And that what Prudential received 
shortly after was a photocopy of the LOA, which I think it paid the claims on the basis of. 
In summary, I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me Prudential received the 
original LOA. This means I wont be telling Prudential to do anything, for the reasons set out 
here and in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Holly JacksonOmbudsman