DRN-3667736
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) under their home 
insurance policy, about how they dealt with damage to the roof of their property caused by 
bad weather.
References to Ageas include their agents who provide services and deal with claims under 
the policy.
This decision covers those issues in Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint relating to Ageas as the 
insurer of their home insurance policy. In their complaint, Mr B and Mrs B also complained 
about the initial response to the damage at their property by their home emergency provider 
(a separate business from Ageas). However, as Mr B and Mrs havent complained to the 
home emergency provider (and so havent had a response from them) this decision only 
considers those aspects of complaint about the initial response insofar as they are relevant 
to the complaint about Ageas.
What happened
In January 2022 there was bad weather at Mr B and Mrs Bs property, causing damage to 
the roof, with tiles being dislodged. Mr B and Mrs B contacted Ageas to notify them of the 
damage and lodge a claim. Ageas appointed a firm (V) to handle the claim. 
They also contacted the home emergency provider. They said they wouldnt send someone 
out to repair the roof given the forecast of a further storm. When they attended a week later, 
they told Mr B and Mrs B they werent covered. Given the extent of the damage to the roof, 
and the potential damage to the interior of the property from the gap in the roof, Mr B and 
Mrs B engaged a contractor privately to make a temporary repair to the roof (at a cost of 
£350). However, they had to engage a separate contractor shortly afterwards to make a 
second temporary repair as the first wasnt up to standard (at a cost of £510 plus VAT). 
V assessed the damage to the roof and offered Mr B and Mrs B £1,142.20 as a cash 
settlement for a permanent repair to the roof. However, Mr B and Mrs B rejected the offer as 
theyd obtained a quote of £2,280 (plus VAT) for the repair. They were also unhappy at the 
stress the situation was causing them (as well as the initial response from the home 
emergency provider). 
Ageas treated this as a complaint, which they upheld (in respect of the cash settlement 
issue). In their final response, Ageas accepted the weather conditions at the time of the 
incident were sufficient to cause damage. Ageas also noted V had offered an increased 
settlement (£2,490  being the permanent repair quote of £2,280 and the second temporary 
repair quote of £510, less the policy excess of £300). But V wouldnt cover the cost of the 
initial temporary repair as it was for the same repair as the second repair. And as the first 
repair wasnt carried out to a good standard, they wouldnt pay for the repair. They were 
awaiting Mr B and Mrs Bs response on whether to accept it. 
On the issue of the stress caused to Mr B and Mrs B, Ageas didnt accept theyd caused any 
extra stress to Mr B and Mrs B through the handling of their claim. On the issue of the 
response of the home emergency team regarding temporary roof repairs, Ageas said Mr B 
and Mrs B would need to raise a separate complaint, as that service was provided by a 
different business. 
Unhappy at Ageass final response, Mr B and Mrs B complained to this service. They were 
unhappy at the initial response from the home emergency provider, that they wouldnt send 
someone out to repair the roof given the forecast of a further storm. They were also unhappy 
at Ageas refusing to cover the cost of the initial temporary repair and not compensating them 
for the stress theyd suffered from what had happened. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Ageas hadnt acted fairly. Given the 
extent of the damage, he thought Mr B and Mrs B acted reasonably in arranging the 
first temporary repair at the earliest opportunity. But the first repair wasnt carried out 
properly, so a second, temporary repair was needed. He thought Ageas should pay 
for both repairs. He also thought it reasonable Ageas pay their increased settlement 
amount for the permanent repair. 
On the damage to the property interior, the investigator noted Ageas told Mr B and 
Mrs B they would need to settle the claim for the damage to the roof before assessing 
the interior damage. However, he thought Ageas could assess the damage sooner, 
given the repairs to the roof had been carried out. On the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr B and Mrs B, he thought Ageas should pay £400 in compensation. 
Mr B and Mrs B disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an 
ombudsman review the complaint. They didnt think £400 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience was sufficient, given what happened and its impact on them. They 
thought £1,000 would be reasonable in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several elements to this complaint. First, the issue of the cost of the two temporary 
repairs carried out to the roof. Secondly, the issue of the cash settlement offered by Ageas 
for repairs to the roof (including the permanent repair). Thirdly, the assessment of damage to 
the interior of Mr B and Mrs Bs property. Fourthly, the stress caused to Mr B and Mrs B from 
the incident, including the time taken and the actions of Ageas.
Ill consider each of these issues in turn. But Id first note that my role here is to decide 
whether Ageas have acted fairly towards Mr B and Mrs B. As Ive set out earlier, as this 
complaint was made about Ageas, Ive only considered their actions. I havent considered 
the actions of the separate home emergency provider. 
On the first issue, the temporary repairs, from what Ive seen in the Ageas case notes, the 
home emergency provider told Mr B and Mrs B they wouldnt pay for the repairs. Given this, I 
think it was reasonable for Mr B and Mrs B to engage a contractor to make a temporary 
repair. This should have mitigated any [further] damage to the interior of the property. It was 
unfortunate that the repair wasnt up to standard, requiring a second temporary repair (from 
a different contractor). But, given both repairs would have been carried out with the intention 
of mitigating [further] damage to the interior of the property, I think its reasonable for Ageas 
(as the home insurance policy insurer) to reimburse those costs. While they initially said 
theyd only pay for the second repair, Ive also noted Ageas accepted our investigators view 
they should pay for the cost of both repairs (including any element of VAT, on production of 
appropriate invoices).On the issue of the permanent repair, the revised settlement offered by Ageas included the 
cost of the quote obtained by Mr B and Mrs B (again, to include VAT on production of an 
appropriate invoice). I also think thats fair and reasonable.
On the third issue, the assessment of the damage to the interior of Mr B and Mrs Bs 
property, they are unhappy at the time taken to do this. Ageas say theyve made it clear 
theyll assess the damage once the issue of the repair of the roof has been settled. Looking 
at the sequence of events and the timeline, I dont think Ageas have caused unnecessary 
delays and I think its reasonable to have reached a point where the roof has been 
permanently repaired (given theres a temporary repair in place) and to assess the damage 
to the interior of the property at that point. That element of the claim doesnt fall within the 
scope of this complaint, but Id expect Ageas to assess the claim in accordance with their 
normal processes and the terms and conditions of the policy (as they would for any claim).
That leaves the issue of the impact of whats happened on Mr B and Mrs B. They say the 
episode has been very stressful, including the way the claim has been handled and the time 
taken. They think £1,000 would be reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience theyve suffered. Ageas dont think theyve added to the stress of Mr B and 
Mrs B. But Ive also noted Ageas have accepted our investigators view that Mr B and Mrs B 
have suffered distress and inconvenience from whats happened, and that £400 would be 
reasonable compensation. Ive thought about this issue carefully, in the context of whats 
happened over the course of the incident. Taking all these factors into account, I think £400 
compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint 
in part. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse the costs of the two temporary repairs (£350 and £510), including any 
element of VAT, on production of appropriate invoices).
Pay the cash settlement offered, including the repair quote for the permanent roof 
repair of £2,280 (to include VAT on production of an appropriate invoice).
Assess the claim for damage to the interior of the property in accordance with their 
normal processes and the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Pay £400 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr B and Mrs B accept my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman