DRN-3470031
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
He has also complained about the way Santander UK Plc has handled his complaint.
What happened
Santander said that it had sold Mr L PPI but that he had cancelled it during the initial three-
month period when it was free. As Mr L had not paid any premiums towards the policy, no 
redress was due.
Our adjudicator concluded that outcome was fair. She also thought that Santanders 
complaint handling was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr L disagrees with the adjudicators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
When a policy is mis-sold we would usually ask the business to put the consumer back in 
the position they would have been in if they hadnt taken out the PPI. So this would normally 
mean asking Santander to give Mr L back what he paid for the policy together with some 
interest.
In this case, Santander has provided evidence that the policy was cancelled before Mr L had 
to start paying the monthly premium. As Mr L didnt pay anything for the policy, he hasnt lost 
out financially and there is nothing for Santander to refund. Therefore, I consider that 
Santander has acted reasonably by not offering Mr L any compensation. It follows that I do 
not uphold the mis-sale part of Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L is also dissatisfied with the way that Santander handled his complaint  both in terms of 
delay and not being able to give him any meaningful updates when he rang to chase 
progress. Our adjudicator has previously provided a timeline of contact between Mr L and 
Santander, so I wont repeat that here.
Mr L says that Santander has used Covid as an excuse for delays when in fact his two 
service complaints were made prior to the pandemic.
When Santander did respond to Mr Ls service complaint, it explained that it wasnt just the 
pandemic that has caused the delay. It said that the delay was due to a combination of the 
significant backlog created by a large volume of complaints received around the PPI 
deadline in August 2019 and then staff shortages due to Covid. Santander said that it had to 
temporarily suspend the majority of its PPI complaint response activity. However, Santander 
did apologise to Mr L for the delays.
Looking at the sequence of events, its possible that Santander could have managed Mr Ls 
complaints better. However, Santander has given Mr L an apology, which I consider to be a 
reasonable and proportionate response to his service complaint. Therefore, I will not be 
asking Santander to do anything more. It follows that I also do not uphold Mr Ls complaint 
about Santanders complaint handling.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman