DRN-2421639
The complaint
Miss W complains about how IGO4 Limited administered her motor insurance policy so that 
her insurer avoided the policy (cancelled it from the start). Miss W is represented in this 
matter by her solicitor. 
What happened
Miss W took out a policy through IGO4 after completing an application on an online 
comparison site. It came to light after Miss W made a claim on her policy that her stated 
occupation was incorrect. The insurer voided the policy and is pursuing Miss W for its outlay. 
Miss W said IGO4 had incorrectly recorded her occupation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Miss W 
had inputted her occupation as Bed and Breakfast Manager when she completed the 
online form on the comparison site. Shed then confirmed to IGO4 that her details were 
correct. The policy documents stated her occupation as Manager. After the accident it was 
found that Miss W was a horse-riding instructor and yard manager. The investigator thought 
Miss W was aware of the mistake as she had called IGO4 to change her occupation to this 
after the accident. So he thought IGO4 wasnt responsible for the error. 
Miss Ws solicitor replied that shed taken out the policy over the phone, not online. She said 
the incorrect occupation had been raised shortly after shed taken out the policy. Miss W 
asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W has also complained about the actions of her insurer, and its agents. But I can only 
consider here the actions of IGO4 as they are separate businesses. And my focus has been 
on whether IGO4 was responsible for the incorrect recording of Miss Ws occupation on her 
policy. 
Miss W recalled that her policy was taken out over the phone rather than online. These 
events took place six years ago, so I can understand that recall may not be accurate. So Ive 
looked at the evidence available. 
I think that whilst Miss W finalised the policy purchase over the phone, she made her first 
application through the online comparison site. This is shown by a screen shot from the 
online comparison site provided by IGO4, which has her occupation as Manager, Bed and 
Breakfast, Licensed. And also by IGO4s letter to her following her unrelated complaint at 
the time which states that she applied online. 
Miss W said that this occupation doesnt now exist on the comparison site. But Miss W 
applied for her policy six years ago, and things could have changed. She also said that shed 
never worked in the Bed and Breakfast industry. And I have no reason to doubt her. But Ive 
no reason to doubt that this was the occupation Miss W inputted when she completed her 
application online. 
Due to the passage of time, the following sales calls arent now available. I cant say this is 
unreasonable as it was six years ago. So I cant check whether Miss W confirmed this 
occupation at the time when she took out her first policy or the second one after the first was 
cancelled. But I wouldnt expect IGO4 to go through all the details Miss W had inputted. I 
think it could reasonably expect her to provide accurate information about her occupation. 
Miss W said shed complained at the time and the sales call should then have been listened 
to. But, from what I can see, her complaint was addressed to the insurers agent, not to 
IGO4. So I cant hold IGO4 responsible for this. 
Miss Ws first policy with IGO4 was cancelled shortly after inception due to a failed direct 
debit mandate. And Miss W set up a new one over the phone using her previous details. 
This call was listened to at the time, and IGO4 noted that Miss Ws occupation wasnt 
checked at this time. The policy documents again record her occupation as Manager. 
Shortly afterwards, Miss W was involved in an accident and a claim was made against her. 
Miss W said that Manager was correct as her occupation was Horse-Riding 
Instructor/Yard Manager. She said if it had been recorded as B&B Manager, then she would 
have corrected it. The policy documents didnt state the sector she worked in. But I think 
Miss W was aware that Manager didnt reasonably describe her occupation. 
I say this because, a month following the accident, Miss W called IGO4 as she was looking 
at a new car. She also said that her occupation was different to that on her policy and this 
should be horse riding instructor at a colleague. So I think Miss W was aware at the time 
that her occupation had been incorrectly recorded. But she didnt tell IGO4 about this until 
after the accident.  
So I havent seen any evidence that IGO4 was responsible for the incorrect recording of 
Miss Ws occupation when she took out her policy. I dont require IGO4 to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman