DRN-3036063
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the way The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) has handled a subsidence claim made under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In early 2018 Mr R noticed paving and outbuildings at his property had suffered damage. He 
discovered a large void underneath them and got in touch with NFU. It appointed a loss 
adjuster, C, who accepted the damage had been caused by mining related subsidence.
C arranged for work to be carried out to put the problem right. In summary, two options for 
repairs were put forward. C said it chose the least disruptive and the work was completed 
soon after.
In late 2019 Mr R noticed some water coming up into his garden from the area where the 
void had been. The same thing happened again a year later. And in February 2021 the water 
returned, but this time with greater volume, flooding his garden. Mr R required support from 
the fire brigade and spent around £400 on pump equipment to prevent the water causing 
damage to his home.
Mr R thought the repair carried out in 2018 was the cause of the water problems. He said the 
other, more extensive repair option should have been chosen. And he was concerned that 
the water problems may be causing subsidence. He asked NFU to look into things further 
and resolve the water problem.
C visited Mr R. In summary, it said there was no evidence of ongoing subsidence movement 
and the repair method used in 2018 was correct. And as the water problem hadnt caused 
any damage, it wasnt covered by the policy. But Mr R was reimbursed the £400 he spent to 
prevent it causing damage as a gesture of goodwill.
NFU said there was no evidence the flooding was related to the work carried out to put the 
subsidence problem right. So NFU didnt offer to do anything further. But it paid £150 
compensation for delays during the recent investigations.
Our investigator was satisfied NFU had acted fairly. She wasnt persuaded that the recent 
problem was linked to that claimed for in 2018  or caused by the repairs carried out.
Mr R said further cracking had occurred, suggesting the subsidence problem was continuing. 
Our investigator asked NFU to consider this point. It acknowledged there was cracking but 
didnt think it had been caused by subsidence.
An agreement wasnt reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The original 2018 claim was accepted, and repairs carried out to put it right were completed 
soon after. At that point in time I understand Mr R was satisfied with what had been done.
Since then, there have been several instances of water escaping from the area where the 
void had been. I understand it hasnt caused any damage, so there isnt a water damage 
claim to consider. But Mr R is concerned about whats causing the water problems and hed 
like NFU to take further action to prevent them from happening again.
The policy doesnt provide cover for preventative measures, so NFU doesnt need to 
investigate problems where theres no damage to the building. But if these problems were 
caused by, or related to, the 2018 claim and the work carried out, it may be fair for NFU to 
take further action.
Ive summarised Mr Rs concerns into three main points:
1. Is the subsidence problem continuing?
2. Was the repair lasting and effective?
3. Has the repair led to other problems?
Ive considered the evidence provided by both parties when looking at each of these points.
Is the subsidence problem continuing?
Mr R noticed cracking in 2021 and thought this was a sign of continuing subsidence. C 
visited in 2021 and considered his point but has explained why it disagrees. In summary:
Some of the cracking is a separation joint between concrete layers.
Cracks at the boundary of the old and new concrete is due to shrinkage.
Older cracks are a result of weathering.
Render has de-bonded over time and caused some cracking.
C didnt note any signs of subsidence when it visited in 2021.
Mr R has described how the water flooding problem may cause subsidence. In my 
experience, thats not usually how subsidence is caused. And I havent seen any expert 
evidence to show that it has, or is likely to, cause a subsidence problem.
Based on the information available to me, Im not persuaded theres evidence of a continuing 
subsidence problem.
Was the repair lasting and effective?
When NFU carried out the repair, it had a duty to ensure it was lasting and effective. That 
means the repair should resolve the subsidence problem for a reasonable period of time.
From the outset of the claim, C took advice from D, a chartered civil, structural and mining 
engineer familiar with the area Mr R lives in. Given the specialist nature of the problem, Im 
satisfied that was a reasonable way to approach the claim.
D found the void was essentially a large sphere, with a much smaller hole at the bottom, 
thought to be connected to a mine system much deeper below. D suggested two ways to 
resolve the problem.The first it described as the traditional method, which would involve excavating down to the 
level where rock is found and filling the resulting area with concrete. It noted the position of 
the void in Mr Rs property meant there was limited access to carry out this extensive 
excavation. It would require demolition and rebuilding of Mr Rs outbuildings, as well as 
impacting the land of two or three of his neighbours.
The second option was to plug the smaller hole and fill the void with concrete. I understand 
D suggested this option because there appeared to be suitable ground or rock at the level of 
the smaller hole  around 3m below the surface. So that meant the plug option would 
achieve a result similar to the traditional method, but with much less disruption.
Given the circumstances, the plug option was taken. D is suitably qualified and experienced 
to give advice on this matter, so I think it was appropriate for NFU to rely on its advice. And 
D was satisfied the plug option was likely to put the problem right.
I understand Mr R is concerned that the plug option was effectively a compromise due to the 
difficult circumstances. Ive looked at Ds reports. It considered the ground conditions suited 
the plug option, but nonetheless it recommended steps and checks to ensure the ground 
was strong enough to hold the plug before the void was filled. And D specified that if the 
ground wasnt found to be strong enough, the traditional method would have to be taken. I 
think this shows the key consideration when choosing the repair method was how to solve 
the problem effectively  with disruption and cost as secondary factors.
D oversaw the work and explained how those steps and checks were carried out in practice. 
It ensured the plug was secured in place, then poured a small quantity of concrete first and 
let it set overnight as a test. It considered the ground had held in place well and the rest of 
the void was filled.
Whilst the repair method chosen may not have been the most common way of putting this 
type of problem right, Im persuaded NFU relied on appropriate expert advice and 
recommendations  and ensured they were followed.
C and D visited Mr R again in 2021. They found no movement in the area where the void 
had been, showing the plug had been successful in resolving the original subsidence 
problem. The outbuildings and the paving have remained stable and are damage free. 
Because of this, Im persuaded the plug repair method resolved the subsidence problem 
effectively and has lasted well so far.
I havent seen any other expert opinions to suggest the repair method was unsuitable in the 
circumstances or has since failed.
Mr R has suggested that if the traditional method had been used, the water problem would 
have been prevented. Hes questioned whether the possibility of a water problem should 
have been anticipated in 2018 and taken into account when deciding which repair method 
was most suitable.
D didnt find evidence or suggestion of a water problem in 2018, when it was working 3m 
below the surface. And its noted that in other local investigations, which went as deep as 
15m, no water was found either. Whilst it accepts its possible that water may have been 
encountered beyond 3m at Mr Rs property in 2018, theres nothing to suggest it would have.
When choosing a suitable repair method, I would expect NFU to take into account any 
reasonably foreseeable risks associated with that repair. Given what D has said, Im not persuaded the water problem ought to have been foreseen. I havent seen any other expert 
opinions that might suggest otherwise.
I wouldnt usually expect NFU to take the most extensive repair option to act as a 
preventative measure against risks that werent reasonably foreseeable. And even if NFU 
had asked D to carry out the traditional repair method, its not clear that would have 
prevented the recent water problems.
Overall Im satisfied the choice NFU made in 2018 was reasonable, based on the 
information available at the time.
Has the repair led to other problems?
As I understand it, water has escaped from the area where the void had been. Whilst theres 
no evidence of the repair failing, its possible the repair has led to or caused other problems.
C took advice from D again in 2021. Consideration was given to whether drilling below the 
old void might help to understand the cause of the water problem. D noted that similar water 
problems were occurring in the local area. It thought this may suggest a broader problem 
with the mine system.
D arranged a search of the historic mine information for the area and said this showed the 
cause of the problem was beyond Mr Rs property. It thought a local blockage or collapse 
deep in the mine system had caused water to back up and collect. And at the end of a wet 
winter, that meant water was more likely to reach the surface. 
D looked at the tunnels underneath Mr Rs property and found the nearest to the surface 
was significantly deeper than can be reached by drilling. So it said this kind of investigation 
was unlikely to provide further information. Noting this problem was much wider than Mr Rs 
alone, D suggested he contact his local council or the Environment Agency for further 
investigation.
Because D considers the mine problem to be remote from Mr Rs property, and possibly 
widespread in the local area, it doesnt think the plug repair method has caused or led to 
the water problem at Mr Rs property. It appears the build up of water is a separate and 
distinct issue to the subsidence claim and the work carried out in 2018. Taking this into 
account, Im not persuaded the work has caused or led to the water problems.
I think it was reasonable for NFU to arrange these investigations, consider other 
investigations, like drilling, and explore what the likely cause of the water problem was. But 
given the nature of it, Im not persuaded NFU is responsible for taking further steps.
Summary
Overall, Im persuaded by the available evidence that NFU carried out a lasting and effective 
repair of the damage in 2018. Im not persuaded there is an on-going subsidence problem or 
that the repair has caused the water problems. For these reasons, Im satisfied NFU has 
acted fairly.
Mr R is entitled to seek advice of his own if he wishes. If he does, and shares it with NFU, I 
would expect NFU to consider whether the advice changes its position.
When Mr R raised his concerns in 2021, NFU took reasonable steps to investigate the 
problem, its likely cause  and whether there was anything that could be done to help Mr R. There was a small delay and I think its fair NFU paid £150 to recognise the distress that 
would have caused to Mr R. I also think it was fair to pay him £400 for the cost of preventing 
the water causing damage to his property. Whilst there was no claim to consider, Mr R took 
swift and effective action to ensure that was the case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman