DRN-3601314
The complaint
Mr and Ms I complain that First Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network
(First Complete) made mistakes when completing a critical illness policy application on their 
behalf.
What happened
Mr I and his wife Ms I had an established relationship with First Complete which they used 
to set up protection policies.
In 2015 they took out a 22 year level term joint life and critical illness policy with a sum 
assured of £200,000. This was provided by an insurer who Ill call Insurer A.
In 2018 there was a review of the policies they held. The broker recommended Mr and Ms I 
replace the joint policy they held with Insurer A, as it found the same level of cover at a 
lower monthly premium with another insurer, who Ill call Insurer B.
This recommendation was accepted and First Complete applied for a 22 year level term 
joint life and critical illness policy with a sum assured of £200,000 with Insurer B. Cover was 
accepted but after the policy went live, Mr and Ms I decided not to cancel their existing 
cover with Insurer A and retained both policies as this was affordable for them.
As part of the same review in 2018, Mr and Ms I also took out individual level term life 
assurance policies with sums assured of between £400,000 and £450,000.
In 2020 First Complete contacted Mr and Ms I again for another review of their cover. 
The broker recommended Mr and Ms I replace the joint policy they held with Insurer B as it 
found the same level of cover at a lower monthly premium with another insurer, who Ill call 
Insurer C.
Mr and Ms I accepted the recommendation and First Complete applied for two level term 
life and critical illness policies over a 20 year term with a sum assured of £200,000 - one 
had Mr I as the life assured and the other Ms I; Mr and Ms I jointly owned both policies. 
These applications were accepted and the policies went live shortly afterwards. Mr and 
Ms I then cancelled the joint policy they held with Insurer B.
As part of the same review in 2020, First Complete also recommended Mr I replace his sole 
level term life assurance policy as it believed this could be obtained at a lower monthly 
premium. This recommendation was accepted and a new level term life assurance policy 
was set up for Mr I with a sum assured of £450,000. This was with a different insurer again, 
who Ill call Insurer D.
Unfortunately, in 2021 Mr I had cause to claim on the policies he held with critical illness 
cover following a heart attack  one with Insurer A and one with Insurer C.
Insurer A paid the claim in full but Insurer C did not. When investigating the claim, Insurer C 
received medical information about Mr Is smoking history. After reviewing this, Insurer C 
was of the view it had been given incorrect information about Mr Is smoking status when 
he applied for the policy. Insurer C decided Mr I had carelessly misrepresented his 
circumstances and said it would have charged Mr I more for the cover had the question 
been answered correctly. So, in line with The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA), it proportionately settled the claim. Which means 
Mr and Ms I received £88,003.60 less than the full sum assured.
Mr and Ms I then complained to First Complete. Mr I said when he spoke with the advisor in 
2020, he told them his circumstances had not changed. The policies hed taken out in 2018 
had his smoking status recorded correctly, so he felt this question ought to have been 
answered differently by the adviser in the 2020 application.
First Complete looked into things and upheld the complaint  it agreed its adviser had 
made a mistake when inputting Mr Is smoking status for both of the policies applied for in 
2020. It said it had asked Mr I about his smoking in 2020 and hed said he was a current e- 
cigarette smoker, but human error meant the advisor recorded this incorrectly.
In the application to Insurer C the adviser said Mr I hadnt smoked any tobacco or nicotine 
replacement products in the last five years.
In the application to Insurer D the adviser said Mr I was an ex-smoker and that hed last 
smoked or used nicotine products 1-5 years ago.
First Complete contacted Insurer D about the incorrect information given. Insurer D then 
gave Mr I the option of either paying the difference in premiums to bring his cover up to 
date or reducing his sum assured.
First Complete then offered Mr I £750 compensation to apologise for the error. It felt this 
was sufficient as it said Mr I ought to have checked the answers on his application forms 
and so felt he had made further errors in addition to its own. In particular it said:
First Complete had emailed details of both of his applications, including his 
answers, to him directly.
Insurer C also sent him an email asking him to log into his portal to check his 
documentation. Had Mr I done this he would have been able to check his 
answers.
Insurer D had posted him a copy of his application for him to check.
First Complete further said Mr and Ms I hadnt lost out because of its error as the policy 
with Insurer A (which it had recommended Mr I cancel) had paid out. First Complete also 
noted that by taking out two separate policies with Insurer C, Ms I now had ongoing critical 
illness cover despite Mr Is claim  something she would not have had otherwise.
Mr and Ms I remained unhappy and brought their complaint to our Service. They raised a 
number of points in support of their complaint, including:
The email from Insurer C had gone to Mr Is business account which receives 
many emails, he simply missed it and so never opened it.
Mr I relied on the specialist to complete the application on his behalf and didnt 
expect to have to check their work.
The broker didnt ask him to check the answers at any point.
Mr I would have paid a higher premium if this was needed in order to obtain 
cover.
Our Investigator looked into things and was of the view Mr and Ms I had lost out because of 
First Completes mistake. They thought First Complete should pay Mr and Ms I the outstanding benefit amount of £88,003.60 and 8% simple interest on this amount from the 
date Insurer C made the proportionate payment, until the date this further payment was 
made. They were of the view the £750 compensation already offered by First Complete 
was fair.
First Complete disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me to consider.
After reviewing the evidence, I was thinking about reaching a different outcome to the 
Investigator. So, I issued a provisional decision so that First Complete and Mr and Ms I 
could have the opportunity to comment before a final decision was given. In brief, I agreed 
that First Complete had made mistakes but felt Mr I had had opportunities to check his 
answers as instructed to by the insurer. So, I didnt think I could fairly say First Complete 
was directly responsible for the misrepresentations that occurred.
First Complete accepted my provisional findings. Mr and Ms I did not. In response, they 
raised a number of points including:
The email Mr I was sent from Insurer C looked like an advert, an invitation to 
register for other services or a form of receipt. They noted it was only in small 
print that Mr I was told to review the answers hed given.
Mr I felt he could rely on the advisor and so didnt think he needed to check their 
work.
It cannot be fair there are no consequences for First Completes mistake.
The outcome doesnt reflect First Completes role in the chain of events that led to 
the shortfall in payment.
They also said that my provisional decision didnt consider contributory negligence. 
Mr and Ms I then highlighted case law which illustrated consideration by the courts of the 
extent of responsibility for the damage caused in cases where a broker made an error. 
They argued that the extent of their contribution to the error was around 20% given the 
facts of the complaint.
After reviewing all of the evidence again, I was thinking about changing my findings. So, I 
issued a second provisional decision so that First Complete and Mr and Ms I could have 
the opportunity to comment before a final decision was given. In brief, I said that a fair 
resolution in these particular circumstances was that First Complete pay 50% of the 
shortfall in the sum assured. I felt this reflected my view that both parties have responsibility 
for the loss incurred.
Mr and Ms I accepted my findings. First Complete did not. It provided responses to the 
further points Mr and Ms I made following my first provisional decision. These included:
The email that was sent from Insurer C told Mr I to check his documentation. 
He had a duty to comply and it was reasonable that he did so. 
CIDRA S.2(3) states A failure by a consumer to comply with the insurers request 
to confirm or amend particulars previously given is capable of being a 
misrepresentation for the purposes of the Act. 
There is no evidence First Complete advised Mr I to ignore the request from the 
insurers. 
The role of the advisor ended when the application was submitted. The failure to 
check the answers was Mr Is and nothing to do with the advisor. 
Insurers ask consumers to check answers to safeguard against administrative 
mistakes by advisors. 
It did not agree contributory negligence applied and the case law examples Mr and 
Ms I provided predated CIDRA. I am now in a position to issue a final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
First Complete has agreed it made an error when completing the application to Insurers C 
and D. So, in this decision I intend to focus on the impact of this mistake and whether the 
action taken by First Complete to resolve things is fair.
Ive taken into account the relevant legislation here which is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive also considered the industry 
guidance that was in place at the time, called the Misrepresentation and Treating 
Customers Fairly  ABI Code of Practice Managing Claims For Individual and Group Life, 
Critical Illness and Income Protection Insurance Products September 2019. I will refer to 
this as the code.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out an insurance policy. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care, it sets out the 
remedies available to the insurer. These depend on whether there has been a claim and 
the standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer took 
reasonable care, including if the questions asked at application by the insurer were clear 
and specific.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether there was what the 
Act describes as a qualifying misrepresentation and whether this was deliberate or 
reckless, or careless. For any misrepresentation to be a qualifying one, as well as showing 
the consumer failed to take reasonable care, the insurer needs to be able to show it made 
a difference to the terms on which it would have offered the policy or that it wouldnt have 
offered the policy at all. Where a misrepresentation was careless, if the insurer would have 
offered the policy at a higher premium and there has been a valid claim under the policy in 
question, the insurer should settle the claim proportionately.
The code talks specifically about misrepresentation where policies have been taken out 
through a broker. It states:
If the intermediary was clearly acting on behalf of the customer, for example, an 
independent financial adviser, the intermediary (as opposed to the insurer) should be 
accountable for any misrepresentation resulting directly from the intermediarys action or 
omission.
Here Im satisfied First Complete was working on Mr and Ms Is behalf and the incorrect 
answer was submitted because of the intermediarys action. Yet the argument 
First Complete is raising is that the misrepresentation is not a direct result of its mistake. 
It is of the view that Mr I had the opportunity and responsibility to check his answers, but he 
didnt. So, it doesnt feel it should be held responsible for the shortfall in the claim pay out 
from Insurer C.
Ive seen evidence which shows that on 9 April 2020, First Complete sent Mr I an email explaining he would shortly receive a copy of the answers hed given  Ive also seen 
evidence these documents were then sent in a follow up email by First Complete. 
However, this initial email didnt tell Mr I that he needed to check his answers and I cant 
see that the follow up email did either. Whilst I appreciate First Completes point that there 
were disclaimers within the documents themselves, I dont think Mr I would necessarily 
have had cause to open these attachments unless he was advised to do so. I say this 
noting these documents were simply copies of the information already given and signed as 
part of the advice meeting. So, Im not persuaded that Mr I ought to have checked his 
answers based on this communication.
However, Ive also seen evidence to show that after the application to Insurer C was 
submitted, Mr I was sent an email from Insurer C asking him to log into his portal to check 
the answers the advisor gave when applying for his policy. Yet Mr I didnt ever log in or 
check his answers.
Ive also seen an email from Insurer D which says it emailed Mr I a copy of his application 
answers. I dont know what this email said as I havent been provided with a copy, but on 
balance, I think its likely it did tell Mr I to check his answers as this is a standard process 
for all major insurers. And its clear that Mr I didnt do so as he made no amendments to 
either policy at that time. I mention the application to Insurer D here as it too contained 
incorrect information. And had Mr I realised there were errors on this application, I think its 
likely this would have given him cause to check the application details submitted to 
Insurer C.
So, its clear Mr I had opportunities to check the information First Complete had given his 
insurers and he didnt do so. I also think its relevant the steps Mr I needed to take in order 
to check this information werent particularly onerous.
Mr I has told us he missed Insurer Cs and Insurer Ds emails in his work inbox due to the 
volume of material he received. Mr I has also said he wasnt told to expect any emails from 
the insurers and that he was under particular strain at the time with his business and the 
impact of lockdown. I was sorry to hear this. That being said, Mr I chose to use this inbox to 
communicate with First Complete and his insurers, and if the emails were sent, I think its 
fair to say it was Mr Is responsibility to ensure they were read. Whilst Mr I says he wasnt 
warned by First Complete that he needed to check his answers, Im satisfied he was 
warned by the insurers. I think thats relevant here as Mr I is saying First Complete is 
responsible for the proportionate settlement Insurer C paid out. However, had Mr I followed 
the advice to check his answers, I think its reasonable to say the error would have been 
found and rectified much earlier.
I note Mr and Ms Is arguments about the content of the email from Insurer C being 
unclear. However, their explanation for not having opened the email was that it was 
missed. So Im not persuaded the prominence, or lack thereof, is relevant to the reasons 
why Mr I didnt check this email or his application answers. The email subject said Insurer 
C had updated Mr Is account, and given Mr I had just taken out an insurance policy with it, 
I dont think it would be reasonable in these circumstances to consider this email an advert 
or marketing. I appreciate why in these circumstances Mr I may have thought this email 
could be a receipt, but I still dont think this removed his responsibility to open 
correspondence from his insurer to check this was the case.
That being said, First Complete was the professional in this situation, whom Mr and Ms I 
had engaged to provide advice and assist with applications. I dont dispute that 
First Complete had a responsibility to ensure the answers it submitted were correct and 
that it failed to do this. At the same time, I also dont think this expertise removes Mr Is 
responsibility to check the answers as instructed by the insurer.First Complete has argued that the purpose of the insurer inviting customers to check their 
details is to safeguard against mistakes of this nature. And Id agree that this process does 
serve as a safeguard against such errors. But I dont think this necessarily means its is 
never appropriate to hold a broker responsible for errors it has made in the application 
process that have then led to a loss for the consumer. What I think is a fair outcome would 
depend on the individual circumstances of each complaint.
In this complaint, I think its also key that Mr I changed his policy at First Completes 
suggestion and it then made a significant error in his application. Which means hed have 
had sufficient cover in place but for First Completes actions.
Its also important to stress that my role isnt to punish businesses for mistakes. Its my role 
to look at the circumstances of this complaint and try to understand the impact of 
First Completes error on Mr and Ms I.
Mr and Ms I are saying the shortfall in their insurance settlement is something 
First Complete is responsible for. They have said First Complete is at least partially 
responsible, even if it isnt wholly responsible.
Where a business has done something wrong but there has been an intervening event, it is 
only in very unusual or exceptional circumstances that I would still think its fair for some of 
the liability for the error (and loss) to remain with the business. Yet, having carefully 
considered things, I do think a proportionate settlement is an appropriate resolution to this 
complaint. I have weighed up what both parties have done and how thats contributed to 
the situation Mr and Ms I now find themselves in. I agree with First Complete that it isnt 
wholly responsible for the loss as Mr and Ms I had an opportunity and responsibility to 
check their answers and they didnt do so - had this happened, no loss would have 
occurred. That being said, had First Complete not made the mistakes it did, no loss would 
have occurred - so there is a link between its error and the loss. Therefore, on reflection I 
think it can be fairly said both parties have responsibility for the loss incurred in these 
particular circumstances. Whilst Mr and Ms I have suggested their contribution to the loss 
amounts to 20% based on the facts of the complaint, Im not persuaded by this. In my 
opinion both parties could have avoided this loss had they taken the action they ought to 
have, so in the circumstances, I think its fair they take equal responsibility. Which means I 
think First Complete ought to take responsibility for half of the loss incurred here.
This means I am asking First Complete to pay Mr and Ms I £44,001.80 to account for its 
contribution to the shortfall in the settlement received. I also think First Complete should 
pay 8% simple interest per annum on this amount from the date the rest of the claim was 
paid by Insurer C until the date it makes this payment.
I am not awarding any more compensation to Mr and Ms I. Id note theyve already been 
awarded £750 by First Complete and I think this is sufficient to account for the distress 
caused by the submission of the incorrect information by First Complete. I say this noting 
that Mr and Ms Is actions also contributed to the situation they ultimately found themselves 
in.
My final decision
My final decision is that First Complete Ltd should pay Mr and Ms I £44,001.80 as well as 
8% simple interest per annum on this amount from the date Insurer C paid the rest of the 
claim until the date it makes this payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I and Mr I to accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman