DRN-3836459
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, failed to pass on information 
hed supplied in order for a chargeback claim to be processed. Hes also unhappy that, 
whilst they refunded his expense, they didnt process the chargeback claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr K, but I think Halifax have been reasonable here and Im not 
asking them to take any further action.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When Mr K raised a dispute about a hotel transaction he says he provided information via 
the group executive complaints email address. He was therefore disappointed to receive a 
subsequent email asking for that information by a different department, and it seems the 
delay meant the chargeback couldnt be raised within the card scheme administrators 
deadline for submission.
Mr K was also disappointed that he couldnt access the secure email portal to raise his 
dispute.
I think Halifax have tried to put things right for Mr K as they agreed to refund the £49 he 
spent on the transaction, and they did so in a reasonable time. I dont think Mr K was 
financially disadvantaged.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme and Halifax didnt have to raise a 
chargeback. So I dont think they needed to process a claim simply out of principle as Mr K 
would have liked. They ensured the disputed transaction was refunded and, in all the 
circumstances, I dont think they needed, or need, to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman