DRN-1516924
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc used the wrong name on his credit card 
account. 
What happened
Mr H applied for a credit card in branch in September 2016. The application recorded that 
the credit card account would be held in one name but that Mr H wanted to use a different 
first name on the physical card. As a result, Bank of Ireland sent Mr H his credit card with a 
different name to the monthly statements. 
Mr H has told us that the statements were addressed to his father. Mr H says he didnt 
realise there was an issue until 2019 when he contacted Bank of Ireland to complain. Bank 
of Ireland responded on 23 February 2019 but didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said the 
account was opened in line with Mr Hs instructions in 2016. Bank of Ireland pointed out that 
Mr H hadnt contacted at any stage to raise concerns about the account name before he 
complained in 2019. 
As he remained unhappy with the situation, Mr H referred his concerns to our service. Mr H 
forwarded evidence to show he has only been known under one first name. Our investigator 
upheld Mr Hs complaint and recommended Bank of Ireland pay Mr H £150 in recognition of 
the trouble and upset caused. The investigator also asked Bank of Ireland to update its 
records. Bank of Ireland changed Mr Hs account so it displayed the correct name and 
agreed to pay him £150. Mr H said the situation had caused problems with his father and 
that he wants £1,000 to resolve his complaint. As Mr H didnt accept, his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has provided a lot of evidence to show he has only ever been known under one name. 
Hes explained that his father is known under the name Bank of Ireland addressed its 
statements to and that has caused problems within the family. I can understand why Mr H is 
upset. But I have to take all the available evidence into account when deciding how to fairly 
resolve a complaint. 
I note that Mr H completed his application in branch. The application form says Mr H wanted 
to use a different first name on the card. The application form was signed by Mr H on 30 
September 2016. The declaration Mr H signed said that he was confirming the details 
contained in the application. The declaration also said the bank would rely on that 
information to complete his application. I think it's reasonable to say that the business would 
have expected Mr H to raise any errors on the application form - especially something as 
important as his name. So whilst I accept that Mr H has only been known under one name, I 
note thats not in line with the application he signed. I also think its reasonable to take into account that Mr H said he never received a credit card 
statement after his credit card was opened in 2016. We know that the statements were being 
sent to Mr Hs address, but he thought they were for his father. But I think Bank of Ireland 
could reasonably have expected Mr H to tell it if he wasnt receiving credit card statements. 
Bank of Ireland has sent us systems evidence to show the account name is now correct. I 
appreciate the error took several months, and the involvement of this service, to fix. But I 
think that reflects the fact the original application was signed and completed using two 
names, not one. I'm please Mr H's name has been corrected and that Bank of Ireland has 
agreed to offer compensation for the error. 
Putting things right
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr H but I haven't been persuaded to 
increase the level of compensation above the investigator's recommendation. Ive 
considered everything Mr H has told us about the impact this situation had on him as well as 
the circumstances of his complaint. Having done so, Im satisfied that £150 is fair in all the 
circumstances. As Bank of Ireland has agreed to pay £150 to resolve Mr Hs complaint Im 
not telling it to do anything else.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to pay Mr H 
£150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman