DRN-2558707
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he has received from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
(Aviva).
What happened
Mr H made two calls to Aviva on 16 December 2020, initially to establish the switching price 
(rather than bid and offer price) of his policy. The reason Mr H made two calls was because 
his first call got disconnected.
Mr H was unhappy with the service he received during these two calls and so raised a 
complaint with Aviva.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by Aviva and a final response letter (FRL) issued on 
17 December 2020. Aviva didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Unhappy with Avivas FRL Mr H referred his complaint to our service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator came to the view that Mr Hs 
complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view, so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed. But having considered everything that has been said 
and submitted I can confirm that I agree with the investigators conclusions and for the same 
reasons.
What was discussed during the two calls is well known to both parties and outlined in some 
detail in the investigators view, so there is no need for me to repeat what was discussed 
here. However, I would like to reassure Mr H Ive listened to both calls.
Having listened to both calls Im satisfied that the operator was polite and professional at all 
times. Im also satisfied that the operator acted entirely appropriately in saying that she was 
unable to answer a number of questions asked of her and answers to the same would need 
to be researched and provided in writing to Mr H in the new year. I also think that the 
timescales the operator gave Mr H for a response in writing to be sent was acceptable, 
especially given the time of year.
I appreciate that Mr H was frustrated that the operator could see no telephone number for 
him on file. But Aviva isnt required to hold one and it was Mr Hs decision not to provide one 
when asked.
I would add that the operator, in my view, did her best to explain the steps taken by Aviva for 
the protection of personal data whilst its staff are working from home and I wouldnt expect 
individual operators to know the answers to a number of the questions asked by Mr H in this 
respect.
I would also add that Im satisfied that Mr Hs first call being disconnected wasnt as a result 
of any deliberate act on the part of Aviva, or the individual operator. And although the 
operator had no contact number to call Mr H back after the first call being disconnected, 
Mr H was always free to call back as he ultimately did.
Given what I say above I dont think that Aviva has, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, done anything wrong.
Finally, I would point out that if Mr H feels he hasnt received answers to all his questions 
asked on 16 December 2020, or didnt receive the same in good time, then this is something 
he will need to raise with Aviva as a new complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman