DRN-2967984
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as National & Provincial) mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage. To keep things simple, Ill 
only refer to Santander in this decision, rather than any other trading name, as Santander is 
the current name of the business responsible for the complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1993. Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.
I sent Mr and Mrs W and Santander a provisional decision on 13 July 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
Neither side still have the original paperwork from the sale, which is understandable given all 
the time thats passed. Indeed, under data protection rules Santander was required to 
dispose of Mr and Mrs Ws data rather than hold onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully 
about whats most likely to have happened based on the information I do have.
Ive looked at sample copies of the documents in use around the time of Mr and Mrs Ws 
sale. From what Ive seen, it looks like the mortgage application offered customers the 
choice to apply for PPI if they wanted it. It said Santander generally recommended PPI  this 
was only a recommendation, not a requirement. Then it looks like in order to get a policy, 
Mr and Mrs W wouldve needed to submit a separate application specifically for PPI, and to 
sign for it separately to signing for the lending itself.
I understand Mr and Mrs W recall feeling pressured into buying PPI. They say they were told 
that if they fell behind on their mortgage they could have their credit rating negatively 
affected or could even have their home repossessed. But that was true  they really did risk 
those things if they werent comprehensively covered. So that doesnt necessarily sound like 
unfair pressure so much as sensible advice. Further, Ive not seen any wider problems with 
Santanders sales process from the time, nor anything which shows that it misled or unfairly 
pressured Mr and Mrs W into buying PPI here.
Taking everything into account, I think its most likely that Santander made Mr and Mrs W 
aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, so it had to check it was right for them. 
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr and Mrs W were eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. The policy wouldve paid out on top of Mr and Mrs Ws work 
benefits and offered them more comprehensive cover, such as for when their benefits 
reduced to just a fraction of their normal pay. Mr and Mrs W had limited savings otherwise, 
and in any case the PPI meant they could effectively protect their savings and use them for 
other things, instead of potentially needing to sacrifice one asset to save another.
I understand Mr and Mrs W had other insurance policies like life and home insurance, but 
those covered very different things to the PPI and were not alternatives to a PPI policy, so 
Im afraid theyre not relevant in this regard. I also understand Mr and Mrs W felt they were 
secure in their health and careers, but accidents, illnesses, and redundancies can and do 
happen  even in situations that feel secure at the time. Its worth bearing in mind that this 
mortgage was a very significant, long-term commitment, and there was no guarantee that 
Mr and Mrs W would have the same work situation, benefits, or stability in the many years to 
come. And ultimately, if they fell behind on their repayments they could have lost their home. 
So the PPI could have really been useful for Mr and Mrs W in protecting their home.
Its possible that the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs W about PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr and Mrs W werent affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs W could cancel it 
at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
Lastly, I understand that Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the way Santander handled their 
complaint about PPI. Im afraid I cannot consider this, as I can only decide complaints about 
regulated activities  such as the selling of insurance. But handling complaints is not a 
regulated activity in and of itself. So while Im sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs W found 
Santanders complaints process slow and unhelpful, I cant consider that point. Instead, Ive 
focused my decision on the sale of their PPI policy.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
10 August 2021. Santander didnt add anything further. Mr and Mrs W made some further 
comments, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W said that the sales process Id described might have been applicable to 
Santander now, but not to N&P in 1993. As I explained in the provisional decision, Im only 
referring to Santander because thats the business name now and I want to keep things 
simple. When I refer to Santander I am referring to N&P  N&P is a former trading name. 
The sample application documents I referred to were N&P documents from 1993, and Im 
satisfied that Ive correctly described the process involved.Mr and Mrs W also said they completed their PPI application in the same meeting as their 
mortgage application. But Im afraid thats not really relevant  its perfectly legitimate to 
apply for insurance in the same meeting as the mortgage. The point is that in order to get a 
policy they would need to have specifically applied for it with a separate application form, 
and specifically signed for PPI to agree to it. So it would have been clear what they were 
choosing to apply for  the PPI wasnt part and parcel of the loan or hidden from sight.
Mr and Mrs W questioned the relevance of the application documents, because in the 
sample copy provided the applicant had happened to apply for an endowment mortgage, 
whereas Mr and Mrs W had applied for a larger repayment mortgage. But the application 
documents also have options for choosing a repayment mortgage  its the same form. So 
these documents are relevant in showing what Mr and Mrs W wouldve most likely seen in 
their sale. And it looks like they wouldve been offered a clear choice about whether theyd 
like to apply for PPI or not. It looks like PPI was just a recommendation, not a requirement, 
and there was nothing in the documents that said or implied it was compulsory. And in order 
to get a policy, Mr and Mrs W would need to have specifically applied for it and signed for it.
I understand Mr and Mrs W recall feeling pressured into buying PPI. But as I explained 
before, from what theyve said it sounds like they were given sensible advice based on an 
accurate description of how the mortgage works, rather than put under unfair pressure. And 
Ive not seen any wider problems with the sales process from the time of their sale, nor 
anything which shows that Mr and Mrs W were misled or coerced into buying PPI here.
So I still think its most likely that Santander made Mr and Mrs W aware they had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed that their sick pay would reduce to a fraction of their normal pay. 
But thats what half pay is. And its a significant reduction in income. So the PPI couldve 
really been useful for them in covering the significant gap in income should one or both of 
them be off work sick  as well as if one or both of them lost their job. As I explained before, 
it also meant they could effectively protect any savings they had, instead of potentially 
needing to sacrifice one asset to save another.
Mr and Mrs W reiterated that they were young, healthy, employed, and had no dependants. 
But as I explained before, accidents, illnesses, and redundancies can and do happen  even 
in situations that feel secure at the time. Further, this mortgage was a very significant, long-
term commitment, and there was no guarantee that things would stay stable for Mr and 
Mrs W in the many years to come. And ultimately, if they fell behind on their repayments 
they could have lost their home. In their circumstances, the PPI couldve really been useful 
for them in protecting their home.
Mr and Mrs W questioned why I hadnt applied the Plevin rules  i.e. the rules around 
commission and profit share on PPI policies. As our adjudicator explained, these rules only 
apply to credit agreements which were taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. Here, Mr and Mrs Ws agreement started in 1993 and ended in 
1999. So the Plevin rules do not apply in their case.Lastly, Mr and Mrs W pointed out that wed found many other PPI policies to have been mis-
sold, and I understand why they raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, 
were suitable in different circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, 
and so on. So while some PPI policies were mis-sold, others were not. We look at each case 
on its individual merits. And Ive explained above why I do not think this particular PPI policy 
was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman