DRN-3775067
The complaint
Miss B complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC irresponsibly lent her money on high cost 
loans that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
AvantCredit provided Miss B with the following loans:
Date of loan Amount Repayment 
periodMonthly 
instalmentsDate repaid
Loan 1 19/9/2016 £3,000 24 months £163 22/9/17
Loan 2 30/11/2017 £4,085 36 months £198 live
Miss B paid off the first loan early. But she got into difficulties over the repayments for the 
second loan and she fell behind with the payments, in part due to being furloughed during 
the Covid lockdown. She complained to AvantCredit that the loans were unaffordable.
AvantCredit in response said that it carried out a creditworthiness assessment for both loans 
which took into account the information required by the CONC (Consumer Credit) rules, her 
income, any previous dealing it may have had with her, her credit score and information from 
credit reference agencies and information provided by her in the application. It assessed that 
both loans were affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman, our adjudicator said that for both loans 
AvantCredits checks showed that Miss Bs total monthly credit repayments for the loans 
were a significant proportion of her income, so the loans were unaffordable.
AvantCredit pointed out that this was a broad statement without any breakdown of figures. It 
set out in its response the breakdown of its assessment of both loans and maintained that 
they were affordable. 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss 
B would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss B would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Bs ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that AvantCredit had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Miss B undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
AvantCredit hasnt shown us a copy of the credit report it obtained for either loan, so Ive 
been unable to independently verify its figures. Nevertheless Ive considered the information 
contained in its files, listing all Miss Bs credit commitments and Ive got no reason to believe 
they were not accurate (save as Ive set out below).
loan 1
AvantCredits credit check showed that Miss B had two credit cards, both of which were over 
their respective limits of £750 and £1500. She also had a mail order account which was also 
over its limit of £1,800. Her total monthly credit commitments, plus the repayment amount for 
the new loan amounted to, according to AvantCredits calculations, around £609. As the new 
loan was for home improvements and didnt include paying off any existing debt this would 
have been around 30% of her verified income of £1,984. But Ive noted that, for loan 2 in AvantCredits list, an HP loan is identified with £3,440 
outstanding and a monthly payment of £257. The HP loan started in December 2013 so 
should have been included in the calculations for this loan. As Ive pointed out AvantCredit 
hasnt provided us with Miss Bs credit reports, but I think it fair to assume this information 
would have been in the first credit report. This would make her credit commitments 44% of 
her income. That figure is in my view quite high and is an indicator that this loan was 
unaffordable.
AvantCredit assessed that Miss B had sufficient disposable monthly income left of around 
£800 after paying the new loan instalment. It says, without any evidence, that her declared 
expenses probably included some or all of her credit commitments. She declared £575 for 
living expenses so I think it most unlikely that she included her credit commitments in this 
Also the £257 HP loan payment should be deducted. Further AvantCredit said in its final 
response letter that, to assess expenses that we used information from data analysis to 
make a reasoned estimate of your likely expenditure. So I dont think Miss Bs figure should 
be relied on. Based on the standard figure from ONS (Office for National statistics) data, of 
35% of income this would mean living expenses of about £695. Leaving a possible 
disposable monthly income figure of £423.
But its not just pounds and pence affordability we look at. Bearing in mind the very high 
proportion of Miss Bs income spent on credit commitments, and the fact that she had two 
credit cards and a mail order account all over the limit and not to be paid off, I think this loan 
was unaffordable and that AvantCredit didnt make a fair lending decision.
loan 2
Miss Bs situation did not appear to have improved when she came back for a second loan. 
She still had the mail order account which was over its limit. The credit card which previously 
had a limit of £1,500, now had a limit of £2,500 and Miss B was over that limit now. The card 
with a £750 limit was still over its limit. Additionally she now had a new credit card on which 
she had a balance of £3,196 with limit of £3,500. She had two new loans for which she was 
paying respectively monthly £37 (on a balance of £555) and £308 (on a balance of £7,099. 
She had paid off loan 1 but I would think she probably used the new loan to do this.
Ive noted that this loan was intended to consolidate previous loans, but AvantCredit took no 
details of the loans she was proposing to consolidate. Based on the fact that her credit 
commitments would now be around 49% of her income, I think that without consolidating a 
substantial proportion of her debt the loan would be unaffordable. Since AvantCredit didnt 
arrange to pay off any loans before releasing any funds to Miss B, it took the risk that she 
wouldnt use it to pay off any loans. 
AvantCredit has set out the loans she could have paid off but even if she had done that her 
credit commitments would still have been 44% of her income, only releasing £96 a month, 
and extending her HP loan (which was due to finish in October 2018) by a further two years.. 
And based on her credit record at the time of this loan compared with the previous credit 
record its entirely possible that she felt unable to pay off any previous loans.
Whilst AvantCredit assessed that Miss B would have had a disposable income left this still 
doesnt address the point I made above  that Miss B still had credit cards and mail order 
over the limit. And she had new loans and a new credit card. Taking that into account with 
the credit commitments being such high proportion of her income, I think this loan was also 
unaffordable and that AvantCredit didnt make a fair lending decision.Putting things right
Miss B has had the capital payment in respect of the loans, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loans are concerned, I think AvantCredit should refund all 
interest and charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans. 
Treat any payments made by Miss B as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Miss B has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance, AvantCredit should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Miss B
If AvantCredit has sold the outstanding debt to a third-party it should do what it can 
to buy it back - if it cant, it cant deduct any outstanding balance from the redress 
and it then needs to work with the third-party to bring about the steps above.
Remove any adverse information about the loans from Miss Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Avant Credit of UK, LLC to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman