DRN-4140777
The complaint
Miss W complains Nationwide Building Society treated her unfairly, by preventing her from 
accessing its new enhanced interest rate on a two-year fixed rate bond. 
What happened
Miss W applied online for a two-year fixed rate bond with Nationwide. A few days later, and 
unbeknownst to Miss W, Nationwide relaunched its two-year fixed rate bond with an 
improved rate of interest. 
When Miss W became aware the rates had changed, she asked the building society to 
transfer her money to the newly relaunched bond. She recalls being told this wasnt possible, 
because shed applied for her bond online, instead of in branch. She understood her money 
would have to remain in the account shed applied for, for the full term of two years. 
Miss W complained. She felt the building society shouldve warned her it would be changing 
its rates. And she felt it was unfair to prevent her from benefitting from the new rate. 
Nationwide defended Miss Ws complaint. It explained it reserved the right to amend interest 
rates at its discretion, and that it felt itd acted in line with the terms and conditions of Miss 
Ws bond. As she didnt accept Nationwides response, Miss W referred her complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. They explained there was no requirement 
for Nationwide to have made Miss W aware of any upcoming changes to its interest rates. 
And that what interest rate Nationwide offered and when, was a matter for its own 
commercial judgement. They were satisfied that Nationwide had operated Miss Ws bond in 
line with its standard terms and conditions, and therefore hadnt treated her unfairly. 
Miss W rejected our investigators findings, so the matters been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. 
Miss W applied for a fixed rate bond, advertising terms and a rate of interest which she 
accepted as part of her application. The bond featured a cooling off period within which Miss 
W wouldve been free to close and withdraw from the product if shed decided she no longer 
wanted it. 
Miss W didnt close and withdraw from her bond within the cooling off period. So the terms 
require that her money must remain in the bond for the full term. Im satisfied these terms 
are clear, prominent in the building societys product literature, and not uncommon for 
savings accounts like Miss Ws bond. Im not persuaded the building society has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by enforcing its terms as theyre written. 
From Miss Ws perspective, I accept its unfortunate she made her application at a time 
when the rates available for savers were regularly increasing. But the risk of better rates 
becoming available is inherent to the type of cash based investing Miss W has chosen in this 
case. There is no requirement for Nationwide to forewarn her if its rates on new bonds are 
due to change. And thinking about the building societys obligations more broadly, it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable to Nationwides other customers if it were to single her out and ensure 
she was put in the best possible position. So in my view, the fact that Nationwide didnt tell 
Miss W about its new rate, doesnt amount to unfair treatment. 
Miss W recalls that during a conversation with a branch employee, she was told all of this 
wouldve been different had she applied for her bond in branch instead of online. Im happy 
to accept her recollection at face value. But Nationwide has since clarified that if this was 
what was said, it wasnt accurate. From the evidence in this case I can see that, in reality, by 
the time Miss W was having this conversation in branch, she was outside of the cooling off 
period that applied to all of the fixed rate bonds offered by Nationwide. So however shed 
applied for her bond, shed still be in the same position shes in now. Therefore whilst I 
accept its regrettable that Miss W was misadvised on this point, it changes nothing. 
Overall Im not persuaded that Nationwide has treated Miss W unfairly. On the one occasion 
where it appears to have misadvised her, its since clarified its position. And because this 
had no impact on the position Miss W now finds herself in, Im not persuaded it would be fair 
or reasonable of me to award any compensation as a result.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman