DRN-3165146
The complaint
Mr H complains about Skipton Building Societys online security process.
What happened
Mr H says when he logs into his Skipton account, he is given the option of saving his 
identification details. He says he doesnt select that option for security reasons, but Skiptons 
website still saves the details. Mr H says that is a security risk if, for example, his computer 
was stolen and says Skipton ought to fix the problem. He would also like Skipton to provide 
information about the tests it has carried out on this issue.
Skipton says it has investigated Mr Hs concerns and cant see any problem with its systems. 
It says the problem may be with Mr Hs computer or related to his settings. Skipton says it 
has been unable to replicate the issue and, in any event, says the saved information forms 
only a part of the security process.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
think there any evidence that Skipton was at fault for the saved information and didnt think 
there any evidence of other customers having similar problems.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says his evidence is therefore being dismissed. He says 
he can now clear the security information but questions if there is a problem for other 
Skipton customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate his concern for his 
account security. I accept that all parts of a security process are important.
I dont think it possible to be sure what caused this issue. Mr H says the problem was not 
caused by his settings or computer and Skipton says that the problem was not caused by it. 
Im satisfied that Skipton did investigate Mr Hs concerns and tried to replicate the problems 
as well as providing advice to Mr H about the issue. So, I cant fairly hold Skipton 
responsible for what took place. That doesnt mean I dont accept what Mr H says but that I 
cant fairly hold Skipton responsible for a problem that it may not have caused.
I can see that Mr H has told us that in any event he can now clear the saved information. So, 
I dont think there ought to be the security concern that Mr H previously had. I appreciate Mr 
H says other customers may be affected, but I can only consider Mr Hs complaint and any 
impact on him.
Overall, Im satisfied that Skipton tried to help Mr H and investigated this issue. I wouldnt 
expect Skipton to tell Mr H what tests it carried out or provide further information about the 
outcome of the investigation. Im satisfied such information is likely to be commercially 
sensitive. Im also satisfied that the problem has now been, in effect, resolved and so I cant 
fairly order Skipton to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman