DRN-4365626
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says the 
loan was unaffordable and this would have been determined had proportionate checks been 
carried out.
Background
L2G provided Mr M with a loan for £1,000.00 in May 2023. The loan had an APR of 772.1% 
and a 18-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £3,700.08, which 
included interest, fees and charges of £2,700.08, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly 
instalments of £205.56. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G didnt act unfairly 
when providing this loan. Mr M disagreed with our adjudicator and so the case was passed 
forward for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
Mr M disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision of 11 September 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 11 September 2023 - setting out why I intended to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
provisionally decide Mr Ms complaint. 
L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is L2G 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M could 
afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I considered what L2G had done and its actions in light of this.
I accepted that L2G might have argued that a light touch assessment was proportionate for 
Mr Ms loan. But I was mindful that it didnt agree with the declaration of income that Mr M 
provided. Furthermore, the credit checks it carried out showed Mr M had a history of 
defaulted accounts and he was at the limit on a number of his revolving credit accounts. 
So I was persuaded by what Mr M had said about already being in a difficult financial 
position at the time. And I thought that while it was possible his credit file reflected his 
choices rather than because he was struggling, particularly given the large number of 
agreements with communications providers, I added that my experience of these types of 
cases suggest that this was unlikely, I was satisfied that further checks would have been 
proportionate here.
I thought that if L2G had carried out further checks before providing these loans, it would 
have seen that Mr M was on a fixed income due to being on benefits and struggling to 
manage his finances. Indeed, most of his income was being taken up by his existing living 
costs and repayments to his existing commitments. I could even see that he was even only 
making token payments to some of his existing creditors.     
Bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr M would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. 
And as that was the case, I thought that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mr M was in no sort of position to make the 
payments to this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
As L2G provided Mr M with this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. Mr M had ended up paying and was still 
being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So this left me intending to find that Mr M had lost out because of what L2G did wrong 
and that it needed to put things right.
I then turned to what Mr M had said about his loan breaching the high-cost short-term credit 
cost cap. Nonetheless, while I considered what he had said and accepted that there was 
absolutely no argument that the 771.2% APR meant that his loan was high-cost, I was 
satisfied that the 18-month term and the corresponding amortisation schedule meant that the 
loan was not due to be substantially repaid within 12 months. 
So I didnt think that Mr M had been provided with high-cost short-term credit and this meant 
that the interest to be paid wasnt in breach of the cost cap in CONC 5A.2. For the sake of 
completeness I thought that what I was proposing L2G needed to do to put things right for 
Mr M for irresponsibly lending to him, meant that I wouldnt have awarded anything further 
even if the interest on the loan had breached the cost cap. And this meant that I didnt 
uphold this part of Mr Ms complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M confirmed asked for confirmation of how his loan would work moving forward in terms 
of payments and credit file reporting.
L2G disagreed with my provisional decision. It said that while Mr M had defaulted on a few 
agreements these were from 2017. In its view, Mr M was up to date with all of his active 
commitments and this indicated that he could repay this loan. Finally, it said as a subprime lender it lent to people who had negative information on their 
credit file and may not have had a good credit score, as long as they can demonstrate that 
they can repay their loan instalments sustainably.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint in my provisional decision 
of 11 September 2023. L2G has disputed my findings saying that Mr Ms previous difficulties 
with credit were historic. 
Ive considered what L2G has said. I accept that Mr Ms defaults were historic. Nonetheless, 
the copy of the credit search provided does indicate that he was at the limit on a number of 
his revolving credit accounts
In any event, Im not suggesting that Mr Ms previous difficulty with credit in itself meant that 
L2G shouldnt have lent to him. But I do think that this coupled with Mr Ms income being 
significantly lower than hed declared mean that further checks were necessary to 
demonstrate that Mr M could repay any further borrowing sustainably. 
I simply dont agree that Mr M being close to the limit on his revolving credit accounts was an 
indication that he was managing his finances well. And I certainly dont see how this meant 
that he would be able to repay a further £205 a month sustainably.
Mr M has queried what will happen with the payments to this loan going forwards. If, as I 
suspect is the case, an outstanding balance remains on the loan once all interest, fees and 
charges have been removed, L2G should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
I would encourage Mr M to get in contact with and cooperate with L2G to reach a suitable 
agreement for this.
Finally, in terms of Mr Ms credit file, L2G only needs to remove any adverse information if 
there is no balance remaining to be paid, once all interest, fees and charges have been 
removed from the outset. If an outstanding balance remains then L2G should reflect 
whatever arrangement it reaches with Mr M for this to be repaid on his credit file going 
forward. 
Overall and while Ive considered the further comments that the parties have made in 
response to my provisional decision of 11 September 2023, Ive not been persuaded to alter 
my conclusions. Im therefore still upholding Mr Ms complaint. And I remain satisfied that 
L2G needs to put things right in the way that I had set out. 
Fair compensation  what I think L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that L2G should put things right for Mr M by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr M made, whether to L2G or any third-party debt purchaser, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £1,000.00 originally lent. If Mr M has 
already repaid more than £1,000.00 then L2G should treat any extra as 
overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr M;adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr M to the date of settlement;
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information L2G recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr Ms credit file. 
Should an outstanding balance remain, L2G should reflect whatever arrangement it 
reaches with Mr M for this to be repaid on his credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give     
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 11 September 2023, 
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman