The complaint
Mr P has complained about a failed transaction for a repayment on his loan, the 
consequences of that and the offer made by PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr 
Lender) when it tried to put the matter right.        
What happened
In August 2019 Mr P took a loan with Mr Lender. The amount borrowed was £200 and was 
to be repaid over three monthly repayments. The first repayment was due on 30 September 
2019 made up of £66.66 of the principal amount borrowed and £57.60 interest. 
The transaction for the interest repayment of £57.60 failed and a further transaction was 
successfully taken. But because of this, and further errors, Mr P says his credit file suffered, 
he couldnt pay living expenses and was refused credit as a result.
Mr Lender accepted the errors and contacted the credit reference agencies to ensure that 
the negative reporting on Mr Ps credit file was corrected. It also offered to remove any 
interest charges on the loan so that Mr P would only repay the principal amount borrowed. 
And it would reduce the principal amount to be repaid by £50 because of the inconvenience 
caused.
Our adjudicator who reviewed the complaint considered that Mr Lender had offered enough 
to put the matter right. Mr P disagreed, and particularly with reference to the adjudicators 
comment that only one debit of £57.60 was showing on Mr Ps bank statement. 
Our adjudicator explained that he had considered the impact the error had had on Mr Ps 
loan with Mr Lender (and what it had offered to put that right) and his bank account. Our 
adjudicator confirmed he understood that Mr P would at some point have seen two 
payments of £57.60 but action was taken and only one applied and debited to the bank 
account so the overdrawn balance on Mr Ps bank account would only have increased the 
once. He also confirmed that Mr Lender was to ensure Mr Ps credit file report was corrected 
of any incorrect information. 
Mr P asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to 
me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
DRN-1551110In any relationship between a consumer and a financial business, errors or dissatisfaction 
can and do arise. And when that happens, we would expect the business to treat the 
consumer fairly and resolve the complaint in a timely manner.
Ive reviewed the file and can see that Mr P was frustrated by the responses he received, 
and some further errors being caused  such as being told his account was on hold only to 
later be chased for payment  as an example. While there were delays and errors, and I 
understand from Mr P some extremely frustrating phone calls, Mr Lender did engage with 
him, accepted the errors and tried to put them right as quickly and fairly as possible.
I see from the copy of Mr Ps bank statement that he provided, £57.60 was taken from his 
account on 2 October 2019 (rather than 30 September) and even though a second debit isnt 
recorded on the statement (because as I understand it the error was corrected) there is a 
credit of £57.60 recorded on 4 October. So, there was minimal impact on Mr Ps bank 
account. 
Also, Mr Lender has said it informed the credit reference agencies of the incorrect reporting 
and asked for that to be put right. 
And with reference to the loan itself, Mr Lender has offered to remove any interest charges 
that would have been payable under the original agreement as well as reduce the principal 
amount to be repaid by £50.
In conclusion, and in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I accept Mr P was 
frustrated and inconvenienced, but I think what Mr Lender has so far done and offered to put 
the matter right is fair and reasonable. It is for Mr P to decide whether to accept the offer. 
I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed in my decision, but I hope I have been able to explain 
how and why I reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint and I wont be asking PDL 
Finance Limited to do anything more than it has already offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman