DRN-3003805
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE refused to refund their premium in 
relation to their travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs G planned a cruise with intended departure and return dates of 
14 April 2020 to 25 April 2020 respectively. They took out a single trip travel insurance policy 
with Great Lakes and paid a total premium of £291.42. Great Lakes says that there was no 
additional medical premium. The premium payable to Great Lakes was made up of the base 
premium of  £185.77, travel disruption extension of £19.98, cruise plus cover of £28.78 and 
insurance premium tax. The terrorism cancellation cover was underwritten by another 
underwriter, not Great Lakes.       
On 26 March 2020, the cruise provider cancelled the cruise due to Covid-19. On 30 March 
2020, Mr G contacted Great Lakes and asked for a refund of the premium. Great Lakes 
didnt agree to refund the premium, but it offered a pro rata credit voucher amounting to 
£66.88, valid for 36 months. Mr and Mrs G werent happy with Great Lakes offer and 
pursued their complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that Great Lakes was the 
underwriter of the base policy and the optional travel disruption extension cover and cruise 
cover plus, but that there was a separate underwriter for the terrorist cancellation cover. 
The investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. He also explained that its a fundamental principle of 
insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also explained that 
Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because 
cover under the policy started in January 2020 and the policy covered various risks during 
that time. 
The investigator thought it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs G 
with a voucher, rather than a cash refund. He thought that the terms of the voucher were 
reasonable. The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of 
Covid-19. He thought that Great Lakes should calculate the value of the voucher as follows:
a pro rata refund of the base premium and optional travel disruption cover, including 
the insurance premium tax, from the date the trip was cancelled  26 March 2020 - 
until the original end date of the policy - 25 April 2020;
the full premium, including the insurance premium tax, Mr and Mrs G paid for their 
cruise plus cover, as that cover would only provide benefit in the event of a claim 
occurring whilst Mr and Mrs G were on their cruise. 
Great Lakes accepted the investigators recommendation and calculated that the value of 
the voucher for the parts of the cover provided by Great Lakes was £119.58. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the investigator. They said that the circumstances here were 
exceptional. Mr and Mrs G said that the voucher wasnt of use to them as covid-19 remains 
a risk factor. They asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision deals with the cover Mr and Mrs G had with Great Lakes. Their terrorism 
cancellation cover isnt underwritten by Great Lakes, so I dont mention that cover here. 
Our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant rules, regulations and law. I agree those 
are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellation provisions
Your right to cancel this policy
Date of effect of cancellation made by you
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take 
effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is 
later. 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period, no premium 
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
I agree with the investigators recommendation and Ill explain why:  
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period, so theres no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more 
than 14 days after the cooling off period, Great Lakes isnt obliged to give a refund of 
the premium but has a discretion to do so in exceptional circumstances. Looking at 
how the policy is worded, I dont think its fair to ask Great Lakes to consider 
exercising its discretion in this case. Thats because I dont think this type of situation 
is one which the discretion in the policy terms is designed to cover  it specifically 
mentions bereavement or a change in its willingness to cover medical conditions and 
thats not what happened here. Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding  
Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer of a pro rata 
credit is fair. Thats because Mr and Mrs G had the benefit of the policy up to the 
cancellation date in March 2020, but Great Lakes risk ended when the policy was 
cancelled. And there was never any risk to Great Lakes in relation to the cruise 
cover.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G would prefer a total cash refund, but Great Lakes isnt 
obliged to offer that. I think a voucher is a fair alternative to a cash refund in the 
circumstances of this case because Mr and Mrs G entered into a contract with   
Great Lakes then, for reasons I quite understand, chose the cancel the policy. The 
voucher Great Lakes has now agreed to provide is more than its obliged to offer, and 
it means that the risk it agreed to take on at the outset of Mr and Mrs Gs policy is 
potentially moved to a future date, should Mr and Mrs G take up the offer. I think that 
the offer of a voucher is fair. In all the circumstances, there are no grounds on which 
to direct Great Lakes to give Mr and Mrs G a total cash refund. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Great Lakes should calculate the value of Mr and Mrs Gs 
voucher on the following basis:
A pro rata refund of the base premium (£185.77) and the travel disruption extension 
premium (£19.98) from the date their trip was cancelled on 26 March 2020 to the end 
date of the policy - 25 April 2020 - including the appropriate proportion of the 
insurance premium tax for that period.
The full amount paid for the cruise plus cover (£28.78) plus the full amount of the 
premium income tax relating to that cover.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint to the extent Ive indicated. Great 
Lakes Insurance SE should now take the steps Ive indicated above.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman