DRN-3038264
The complaint
Mr Z, a director of  D, a limited company, complains about the way Barclays Bank PLC 
(Barclays) handled a chargeback request. He would like a full refund for a service not 
received. And compensation.
What happened
Mr Z says he booked and paid for five executive economy airline tickets using his Barclays 
account. Unfortunately, he says the seats allocated were economy not premium economy . 
The major difference being the seats didnt recline. Mr Z also said that he wasnt happy with 
the quality of food, cleanliness or entertainment provided in the flights.
He said he raised this during the flight and, as a result, the station manager of the airline 
emailed him to confirm he was eligible for the difference in fare between what he paid for 
and what he got. Mr Z says he hasnt received a refund. And he feels he should be refunded 
the full cost of all the flights.
Mr Z is also not happy with the way Barclays handled his complaint
Barclays said it pursued a chargeback request, but the merchant successfully defended the 
claim saying the issue was a customer service one that should have been resolved at the 
time. During our investigation Barclays agreed to offer £100 for its poor customer service.
Our investigator found that Barclays acted appropriately and within the Chargeback Scheme 
rules. She also felt the offer of £100 compensation for poor service was fair.
Mr Z didnt agree with this view. He said there were factual inaccuracies in Barclays 
decision which led to an unfair outcome. That the issue should have been based on a 
breach of contract rather than as a customer service issue. He also felt he hadnt been given 
the full disclosure of information that he expected from our service  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr Z feels strongly about his complaint and I do appreciate that. I also appreciate the 
circumstances around the need for the flight must have been distressing for him.
I need to make it clear that in this decision I can only consider the actions Barclays took. I 
appreciate Mr Z isnt happy with aspects of how his complaint has been handled by our 
service Its not appropriate for me to comment on this here. This will be dealt with separately.
I also think it would be helpful if I explain the Chargeback Scheme rules and how they work. 
This is a voluntary scheme that most banks sign up to. The scheme has a set of rules and 
timescales that need to be adhered to. Importantly there is no guarantee that a chargeback 
request will be successful.
I appreciate one of Mr Z points if that he doesnt feel that Barclays dealt with the chargeback 
request in a reasonable timescale. I dont agree with that. From what I have seen it did what 
I would have expected it to do. It applied a temporary credit then contacted the merchant  
and it did this within the necessary timescales.
I dont agree that Mr Z was eligible for a full refund of the flights since he did receive the 
service, he paid for in that he took the flights. However, he didnt get exactly what he booked 
 he paid more to have reclining seats. There is no dispute about this since Mr Z has 
provided information from the merchant stating he is eligible for a refund in the difference 
between the economy premium flights he paid for and the economy seats he got. Mr Z 
hasnt been able to evidence what this difference is. 
Under the Chargeback Scheme rules consumers are expected to evidence an actual loss. 
We have gone back to Mr Z several times about this, but he hasnt been able to quantify or 
evidence his actual loss. He hasnt, for example, been able to show if the tickets he bought 
and is seeking a refund for were single or return ones. This would impact on his loss since I 
have no evidence there was a problem with any return flight. I do think that is information he 
should be able to provide. I also think he should be able to evidence the difference in cost 
between the two types of tickets, but he hasnt done so. I appreciate he has told us he hasnt 
had any response to phone calls or emails to the airline, but I am surprised no emails or 
phone calls have been responded to at all. 
Whilst I am sympathetic to Mr Xs situation I dont think its reasonable to expect Barclays to 
refund 50% of the costs of the tickets as Mr Z would like with no evidence to support the 
actual loss. 
I do think Barclays should have either challenged the merchants response that this was a 
customer service issue as it did have some information Mr Z had been told he would be 
eligible for a refund. Or it should have tried to obtain the refund Mr Z had been offered. But I 
cant see any evidence that Barclays did this. However, although lack of evidence of loss 
wasnt the reason the chargeback failed, I think had Barclays handled the charge back 
request differently it would still  have been unsuccessful with no evidence of the actual loss.
I appreciate Mr Z feels there were other aspects of the service he wasnt happy with such as 
the entertainment, food on offer and general cleanliness/hygiene of the plane. I have no 
proof of these issues and I would agree with our investigators point that some of these 
aspects are down to individual opinion. I dont think they are enough to warrant a full refund 
of the flight costs as Mr Z did get the main service he paid for i.e. the flights. I think the 
merchant response to the chargeback request is more applicable to these issues i.e. these 
are customer service points Mr Z could have raised during the flight and tried to address.
Finally, Mr Z isnt happy with Barclays customer service. From what Mr Z has told us and 
from the information Barclays provided its clear that was a lack of communication on 
Barclays part. Barclays has accepted this and offered £100 compensation to Mr Z which I 
think is fair. Its handling of Mr Zs complaint didnt prevent the chargeback request being 
processed but its communication could have been clearer..
.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
In full and final settlement Barclays Bank PLC should pay Mr Z  the £100 compensation it 
offered for poor customer service  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman