DRN-4498338
The complaint
Miss H complains about the price quoted by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
to renew her home contents insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont go into detail but will 
summarise the key points. Miss Hs policy was due to renew on 27 July 2023. She received 
a renewal price of £385.30 which she says was significantly higher that what shed paid the 
previous year. Miss H complained to RSA, and they maintained the price was calculated 
correctly. So, Miss H decided not to renew and took out a new policy with another insurer for 
£236.58. It later transpired that RSA had made an error in the pricing calculation and the 
price shouldve been £219.09. Miss H says, had she been given the correct price at renewal, 
she wouldve renewed with RSA, but she had now been left in a position where the terms 
and conditions of her new policy werent as beneficial as her RSA policy. 
RSA, in acknowledging their error and looking to put Miss H back in the position she 
wouldve been in had the error not occurred, offered to reinstate the policy for the price of 
219.09 from the original renewal date of 27 July 2023. They also offered to cover the cost of 
Miss H cancelling her policy with her new insurer and issuing a letter of dual insurance to 
enable Miss H to obtain a refund of the premium paid. They also offered £75 compensation 
for the trouble and inconvenience caused by their pricing error. Miss H raised a further 
complaint about an endorsement applied to her policy and confusion caused by RSA when 
they discussed this endorsement with her. For the confusion caused, RSA offered £25 
compensation.     
Our investigator looked into things for Miss H. He thought RSAs offer was fair and didnt 
uphold the complaint about the endorsement applied by RSA. Miss H has accepted RSAs 
offer but has explained the only point she disagrees with is RSA applying an endorsement 
on her policy and how this was communicated. So the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. Miss H confirms she agrees with the proposals made by RSA to put things 
right and, having agreed to this directly with RSA, her policy has been reinstated. Miss H 
confirms she agrees with our investigators findings, but the only dispute she has relates to 
RSA applying an endorsement to the personal possessions section of her policy and how 
this was communicated. So, this is the issue Miss H wants me to decide. 
Ive looked at the policy schedule, which was originally sent to Miss H in June 2023, and this 
shows the excess for personal possessions as £25 on page 3 of the schedule. On the same 
page it says, Please check all the enclosed documentation to ensure the cover provided is 
exactly what you need. It also says, This schedule and any applicable endorsements form 
the basis of your insurance contract and you should read it in conjunction with your policy 
booklet. It also refers Miss H to the Important Notes section of the schedule  and this 
contains a sub-heading Endorsements. Under this sub-heading it explains an endorsement 
alters the standard terms of Miss Hs insurance. It also says, It is important that you read 
and understand all endorsements printed below. The endorsements are then listed on 
pages 9-10. On page 10 it says, A £250 excess applies to the personal possessions section 
of your policy in addition to your standard excess for this section of cover.   
RSA say the endorsement setting out an additional excess of £250 for personal possession 
claims was due to Miss Hs claims history, which they say is reviewed each year in line with 
their underwriting criteria. Miss H may feel this is unfair, and I acknowledge she says no 
such endorsement had been applied in previous years. But I think its important to mention 
here, its for a business to decide what risks theyre prepared to cover and how much weight 
to attach to those risks - different insurers will apply different factors. If an insurer decides to 
apply an endorsement based on claims history, and in line with their underwriting criteria, it 
doesnt mean theyve acted unfairly. 
Turning now to how the endorsement was communicated. The Insurance Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), under ICOBS: 2.2.2 R requires information from a 
business to be clear, fair and not misleading. Having reviewed the policy schedule, I think 
RSA have acted fairly in communicating the endorsement to Miss H so I cant say the 
information was unclear, unfair and misleading. 
Miss H says its misleading for RSA to state at the beginning of the schedule the excess is 
£25 and then hide an endorsement further down the schedule saying theres an additional 
excess of £250. Miss H believes, the fact that the excess has increased so much, the total 
excess should have been noted at the beginning of the schedule. I do acknowledge Miss Hs 
points, but I cant say RSA have acted unreasonably here. The schedule does ask Miss H to 
check all documentation and also, specifically, highlights the importance of reading the 
endorsements. I do acknowledge Miss Hs point about why it would be beneficial for any 
changes to excess to be highlighted at the beginning of the schedule, but its not unusual or 
uncommon for insurers to list any endorsements separately. 
I note Miss H feels its misleading to set out an excess of £25, but then later include an 
additional excess of £250  and she feels this was an attempt to hide the fact there was an 
additional excess. I dont believe it was misleading or an attempt to hide information 
because, as mentioned above, the notes in the schedule do refer Miss H to the 
endorsements. Also, on page 3 where it notes the standard excess of £25, theres nothing to 
suggest this is the only excess payable in the event of a personal possessions claim. So, I 
cant say the information was misleading or in any way unclear or contradictory. 
I acknowledge Miss H says, had she originally taken out the policy, she wouldnt have known 
about the additional £250 excess until she made a claim. I note Miss H also says she has 
been with RSA for 30 years and she has never read the small print as it usually sets out 
standard terms and conditions. Miss H says she has never felt it necessary to review the 
whole policy schedule, so she wouldnt have had any reason to review it now. I do 
acknowledge Miss Hs points, but as mentioned above, the information about the excess 
endorsement was contained in the schedule  and it would be the policyholders 
responsibility to read the schedule to ensure theyre happy with the terms and cover. I do understand Miss H has strong feelings about how the information about the additional 
excess was communicated to her. But, for the reasons mentioned above, I cant say 
information about the excess wasnt communicated clearly. I acknowledge Miss Hs point 
about not needing to read endorsements previously, but each renewal acts as a new annual 
contract of insurance. So, even if previous years schedules havent set out any additional 
endorsements, it doesnt mean an insurer cant change that on a particular year. Thats why I 
think its important for an insurer to communicate any endorsements clearly, and also draw a 
customers attention to the importance of checking all information in the policy 
documentation  and thats what RSA have done here. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that RSA have made an error in their pricing calculation for Miss Hs 
policy. Theyve offered to reinstate the policy for the price of 219.09 from the original renewal 
date of 27 July 2023. Theyve also offered to cover the £39.50 cost of Miss H cancelling her 
policy with her new insurer and issuing a letter of dual insurance to enable Miss H to obtain a 
refund of the premium paid. Theyve also offered £75 compensation for the trouble and 
inconvenience caused. Theyve also offered £25 compensation for the confusion caused by 
RSA when they discussed the endorsement with Miss H. I can see Miss H has accepted the 
resolution offered by RSA and theyve reinstated the policy. So, RSA should take the steps 
theyve proposed, and Ive mentioned here, if they havent done so already.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited must take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right 
above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman