DRN-3680537
The complaint
Mrs P complains that she didnt receive the full amount she withdrew from her Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) account. Shed like the shortfall refunded.
What happened
Mrs P withdrew two sets of £2,500 from her Halifax branch several days apart. She was 
given the cash in sealed envelopes. She took the cash home and kept it secured. However, 
when she went to check the money, she says she found that one of the envelopes was 
missing £200.
Mrs P went back to branch to report it. The branch manager told her the tills had balanced 
that day, and there were no discrepancies, so couldnt help her any further. She tried to raise 
a complaint but was just given a leaflet. 
She raised a complaint with Halifax and asked that CCTV of the transaction be reviewed. 
Halifax looked into what happened but couldnt find a discrepancy in the amounts in the tills. 
They declined to pay Mrs P the shortfall. But they accepted the branch manager should have 
escalated her complaint immediately. They offered to pay Mrs P £100 to make up for this.
Unhappy with this answer Mrs P referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened but didnt think the bank needed to do anything 
further. She was satisfied Halifax had shown the tills balanced at the end of the day. She felt 
there wasnt enough evidence to suggest any shortfall was down to Halifax. But she also felt 
Halifaxs service hadnt been up to standard, and the £100 offered was a fair reflection of 
this.
Mrs P disagreed and questioned why the CCTV wasnt reviewed. The investigator confirmed 
with Halifax that the CCTV wasnt available. As no agreement could be reached the case 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt the sincerity of Mrs Ps complaint, but overall I dont think Halifax need to do 
anything further here.
This matter is complicated a bit by the fact the two withdrawals happened on different days 
and Mrs P cant be sure which particular withdrawal is the one she feels was short. But 
Halifax have been able to supply evidence to show that there werent any cash errors on 
either day of the withdrawals. If there had been a shortfall, I would expect the balance to be 
higher than expected. The available technical evidence suggests that Mrs P was given the 
correct amounts.
Mrs P recalls the cash being counted in front of her during the withdrawal process. Shes 
commented that it was counted too fast  but if she had concerns, I think it would be 
reasonable to either request the cash be recounted or to do it herself at the time.
Its disappointing that CCTV isnt available  although I accept Halifaxs explanation that it 
was water damaged. However, Im not sure I can draw any specific conclusions from this 
being unavailable.
Im also minded that Mrs P had the cash for a considerable period  at least several days for 
both withdrawals  before noticing any shortfall. This would appear to me to be a longer 
opportunity for someone else to tamper with the cash, rather than for a very brief period in 
branch.
For these reasons I feel its more likely than not Mrs P was given the correct balance in 
branch, and it wouldnt be reasonable to ask Halifax to make up any shortfalls discovered 
later. 
Halifax have accepted that the branch manager should have raised the issue sooner, and I 
can see why Mrs P would be upset by this. But I also think the offer of £100 compensation is 
a fair reflection of the impact of this. On that basis Im not asking them to increase it.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mrs P £100 if they have not already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman