DRN-2370826
The complaint
Mr H complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited declined a claim for a stolen 
motorhome under his motorhome insurance policy.
What happened
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint in October 2020. Heres what I said:
Mr H wanted to sell his motorhome. He made an informal arrangement with a local 
dealership that it would sell the motorhome on his behalf. The motorhome was parked on the 
dealerships forecourt. About five days later, it was stolen.
Markerstudy declined Mr Hs claim for the stolen motorhome. It said Mr H hadnt notified it 
about a change in where the vehicle was kept. Had he done so, Markerstudy wouldnt have 
agreed to provide cover for the vehicle while it was kept at the dealerships forecourt.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. She didnt think Markerstudy had 
provided enough evidence to show that it wouldnt have provided cover if Mr H had made it 
aware of the change in where the vehicle was kept. So, she thought Markerstudy should 
consider the claim.
Markerstudy didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says the motorhome was to be kept at the dealership only on a temporary basis  until 
it was sold. He doesnt think this is any different to taking the vehicle to a garage for repairs 
or to a camping site  and he wouldnt be expected to notify the insurer in these instances. 
Ive thought about what Mr H has said why he didnt think he needed to get in touch with 
Markerstudy. But I dont think the situation here is similar to the situations hes made a 
comparison to. The purpose of the change in where the motorhome was kept was to sell it, 
and the anticipated duration of the change was until the sale happened. 
While the motorhome was stolen after about five days, that doesnt change the fact that Mr H 
didnt intend to have the motorhome back. And it wouldnt be kept at his home address 
anymore. So, the motorhome wouldve likely been at the dealership for a considerable 
period of time. I do think this is a significant change in where the motorhome is kept.
Mr Hs policy says he needs to notify Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited of any 
change of address, including details of where Your Motorhome is parked overnight. This is 
set out on the first page of the terms and conditions of the motorhome policy. The policy also 
says that if you do not tell us about relevant changes, your motorhome policy may not be 
valid or may not cover you fully.
Mr H has said that the motorhome wouldve needed to be serviced at the dealership before it 
could be sold. But Mr H hasnt specifically said the motorhome would be there for service  
hes been very clear that it was there to be sold. And in any event, the dealership has said 
the vehicle wasnt there for repair or service. So, I this doesnt change my findings.
Taking everything into account, I think this was a significant change in the policy details. And 
I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr H to notify Markerstudy of the change in where the 
motorhome was kept. This is because the intention was to keep the motorhome at the 
dealership until it was sold  so it wasnt going to be kept at the location detailed on the 
policy documents any longer.
Markerstudy has said that had Mr H done so, it wouldnt have provided cover while the 
motorhome was at the dealership. When our investigator looked into the complaint, 
Markerstudy had said there wasnt a guide that confirmed this, as this was a specific 
situation. But since then, Markerstudy has sent information from the underwriter to show that 
cover wouldnt have been provided, and Im persuaded by this.
Based on this, Im satisfied that Markerstudy has shown it wouldnt have provided cover, had 
Mr H notified it of the change in where the vehicle was kept. And Ive already said I think it 
wouldve been reasonable for Mr H to do that. So, because he didnt, I dont think 
Markerstudy acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining his claim for the stolen motorhome.
Markerstudy said it had no further points to add to my provisional decision. Mr H wasnt 
happy with my findings, but he didnt have any new information for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me any new information to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings I reached in my provisional decision.
So, for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think Markerstudy acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Hs claim for the stolen motorhome. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Hs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman