DRN-3781008
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that White Horse Insurance Ireland dac (White Horse) hasnt fairly 
settled their wedding insurance claim. Any reference in this final decision to Mr and Mrs O or 
White Horse includes its respective representatives and agents unless specified otherwise.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved, so Ill summarise 
what Ive found to be the key points.
Mr and Mrs O took out a wedding insurance policy with White Horse to cover their 
wedding due to take place in April 2022.
A few months before the wedding date, their wedding venue (Venue A) contacted 
them to say it was unable to host their wedding because of a fire at Venue A. 
Venue A also said that it would be unable to return the £5,500 theyd paid to it for 
venue hire along with £320 accommodation costs as in line with the contract 
Mr and Mrs O had signed, it wasnt liable to refund any monies in the circumstances 
of a fire. It advised Mr and Mrs O to contact their wedding insurance provider to make 
a claim.
Mr and Mrs O registered a claim with White Horse which was paid in part  £2,000 
for re-arrangement costs covered under the policy and £210 for costs it deemed were 
irrecoverable. It also paid them £100 compensation for a miscommunication error. 
But White Horse didnt agree to cover the cost of the venue hire and accommodation 
as it said this was the responsibility of Venue A as it couldnt fulfil its contractual 
obligations and so had to refund Mr and Mrs O what theyd paid to it. It concluded 
these costs were therefore not irrecoverable and so werent covered under the policy.
Mr and Mrs O disagreed. They said theyd tried on several occasions to get their 
money back from Venue A but had been told this wasnt possible and the contract 
theyd signed supported this. They were adamant the venue fee and associated 
costs met the policy definition of irrecoverable and so should be covered. 
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Os subsequent complaint about the matter 
and upheld it. They said Mr and Mrs O had shown theyd tried to get the money back 
from Venue A without success and they were satisfied in the circumstances of this 
case that the claim was therefore payable under the policy, irrespective of White 
Horses opinion that Mr and Mrs O are entitled to a refund from Venue A. 
The investigator said it wouldnt be fair in this case, to expect Mr and Mrs O to take 
Venue A to court, but that White Horse themselves could pursue Venue A to recover 
the claim value they pay to Mr and Mrs O if it wished to do so.
White Horse disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsman to decide the case. It 
said the policy definition of irrecoverable had been drafted in plain language and 
makes clear that where there is an entitlement to recovery from another third party a 
loss will not be considered irrecoverable. 
It thought the investigators opinion disregarded the policy wording and wasnt fair or 
reasonable. And it referenced a couple it had heard from whod gotten their money 
back from Venue A after threatening legal action.
The case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Venue A cancelled Mr and Mrs Os wedding because of a fire that destroyed parts of 
the venue meaning it would be unable to host their wedding as planned.
Mr and Mrs O say they signed a contract with Venue A which said it wouldnt be 
liable for failure to provide access to the venue for circumstances outside its control 
such as a fire. The contract required them to take out appropriate insurance, so they 
took out a wedding insurance policy that was underwritten by White Horse and 
covers them for cancellation of their wedding in the event of a fire. That is what 
happened in this case and so they think the claim should be covered.
Mr and Mrs Os policy with White Horse does cover them for cancellation, curtailment 
and rearrangement of their wedding. But as is standard with policies of this nature, 
this cover is subject to certain terms, conditions, limitations and exclusions which are 
set out in the policy documents. My starting point is to look at what these say.
Page 11 of the policy document says White Horse will pay up to the amount shown 
in the schedule for any irrecoverable expenses you have paid for or which you have 
to pay for, under contract or subsequent agreement for the services of any wedding 
services supplier not used as a direct result of the unavoidable cancellation by you of 
the wedding or wedding reception caused by any of the following reasonsb) 
damage to the venue caused by fire, natural catastrophe or adverse weather.
White Horse accept Mr and Mrs O have a valid claim under this part of the policy and 
have therefore covered the rearrangement and cancellation costs Mr and Mrs O 
claimed for that they are satisfied are irrecoverable, which is defined in the policy as 
We will only cover costs which you have not already recovered or which you are not 
entitled to recover from another third party. 
White Horse hasnt paid out for the hire fee and accommodation costs Mr and Mrs O 
paid to Venue A. White Horse say that as Venue A was unable to perform its 
contractual obligation of hosting their wedding, its responsible for refunding 
Mr and Mrs O any money paid to it for this and that it has suitable insurance in place 
to do so. White Horse says the definition of irrecoverable makes clear that where 
there is an entitlement to recovery from another third party a loss will not be 
considered irrecoverable. So its satisfied its fairly declined this part of the claim.
Mr and Mrs O argue that the policy definition of irrecoverable has two parts. And 
that White Horses declinature ignores the first part of the definition. This is because 
the two parts of the definition are joined by the word or so they think either of the 
parts being satisfied amounts to irrecoverable under the policy. And as the money 
being claimed for is not already recovered by Mr and Mrs O, then the definition is 
met, and the claim should be paid.
Ive thought about both arguments carefully. But either way, I still think the claim 
should be paid in this case and Ill explain why.The evidence Ive seen shows Mr and Mrs O have tried to recover the amounts being 
claimed for from Venue A on several occasions without success. So Im satisfied the 
money theyre claiming for has not already been recovered  this isnt in dispute. 
White Horse say that Mr and Mrs O are legally entitled to a refund from Venue A, but 
Mr and Mrs O argue theyve signed a contract which seems to state otherwise.
Whether these contract terms are fair or not isnt for me to decide in this case, and 
White Horse simply cannot say with certainty that a court would decide in 
Mr and Mrs Os favour with regards to this. And I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable in this case to make Mr and Mrs O go to court to attempt recovery of 
these monies before making a claim.
White Horse say Venue A has insurance that it can claim on to refund couples such 
as Mr and Mrs O. This may well be the case, but I have no information of what this 
policy covers and whether or not it will pay out for the loss Mr and Mrs O suffered. 
Venue A may well have paid out to another couple, but Im only considering 
Mr and Mrs Os case and from what Ive seen at the time of writing this decision, 
Venue A has told them it cannot refund them the money paid. Hypothetical scenarios 
or outcomes that may or may not have been achieved for other people dont change 
this fact.
With all of that in mind and on balance of what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs O havent recovered the venue 
hire and accommodation costs from Venue A. And Im not persuaded from what Ive 
seen in this case, that they are entitled to recover these costs from another third 
party. 
It follows for the reasons set out above and taking into consideration whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this particular case, Im satisfied the money 
Mr and Mrs O are claiming for is irrecoverable under the policy and so White Horse 
should pay the outstanding claim amount less any applicable policy excess and in 
line with any applicable policy limits, terms and conditions.
The short notice cancellation of Mr and Mrs Os wedding impacted them financially 
and was understandably stressful and upsetting. I dont doubt this was further 
compounded by White Horse declining a substantial part of their claim, which for the 
reasons set out above I dont think was fair in this case. I agree with our investigator 
that White Horse should also pay Mr and Mrs O £150 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience this caused.
Ive considered all of the comments from White Horse, including its concerns about 
the impact of this decision on other potential claims. But Ive been clear in my 
findings that the decision reached in this case is specific to Mr and Mrs Os individual 
complaint, information and circumstances. Any other potential cases looked at by this 
service would be fairly considered on their own merit. So these points dont change 
my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. White Horse 
Insurance Ireland dac must do the following to put things right:
Pay Mr and Mrs Os claim in full and in line with the policy terms and conditions (less 
any applicable policy excess) for the Venue A hire fee and Venue A accommodation. 
8%* simple interest should be added to these amounts from the date Mr and Mrs O 
made the claim to the date White Horse settles it.Pay Mr and Mrs O £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in 
this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
* If White Horse considers that its required by HMRC to take off income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs O how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs O 
a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman