DRN-3359643
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) acted irresponsibly when they gave him a 
loan. Mr H says the lending was unaffordable.  
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint and my initial findings were set out in my 
provisional decision which said:
In June 2019 Mr H applied online for a personal loan with HSBC. The purpose of the loan 
was mainly to refinance an existing HSBC loan. The loan amount was for £13,630 and 
£10,627 was used to repay the existing loan. Mr Hs monthly repayments on the new loan 
was £329 per month payable over 60 instalments. HSBC has confirmed this in their file 
submission to us.
The loan repayments started in August 2019, however Mr H stopped making payments after 
October 2019. This is confirmed on the loan statement provided by HSBC.
Mr H says that when he applied for the loan he was experiencing financial difficulties and 
didnt think the loan would be agreed. Prior to applying for the loan, in March 2019 Mr H 
contacted HSBC to inform them of his financial difficulties, HSBC required some further 
information which Mr H was unable to provide at the time. in an email to us in November 
2021, HSBC acknowledged that they didnt follow-up on this.
Mr H says that in October 2019 he stopped making repayments to the loan because they 
were unaffordable for him. He says he also contacted HSBC about his situation, and they 
gave him a break from making any payments for 60 days. 
HSBC confirmed they applied a 60 day break from charges and interest, however they also 
explained that they were awaiting further contact from Mr H for around six months. 
Mr H complained to HSBC about their decision to give him a personal loan. He said the loan 
was unaffordable from the start and had left him feeling depressed and having to see his 
doctor for medication to help him. Mr H said he wanted HSBC to write off the loan and pay 
him compensation for the distress caused to him.
In august 2020 HSBC provided their final response to Mr Hs complaint. They didnt uphold 
his complaint. HSBC say they followed their lending processes which were in line with the 
guidance and rules set-out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Unhappy with their response Mr H brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into his concerns and upheld his complaint. They felt that HSBC didnt carry out the 
appropriate checks necessary to determine the affordability of the loan for Mr H. Our 
investigator recommended that HSBC refund all the charges and interest paid by Mr H on 
the loan and to remove all adverse information from Mr Hs credit file.
Following our investigators view HSBC made an offer of goodwill to Mr H, to refund all the 
interest and charges that hed paid to date in relation to the loan. They acknowledged that he 
had informed them of his financial difficulties prior to taking out the loan. However, HSBC 
declined to remove all adverse information relating to the loan from Mr Hs credit file.
Mr H didnt think HSBCs offer was fair, so he declined the offer and asked that his complaint 
be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
In February 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), which can be found within the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) handbook, say that a business must carry out a creditworthiness 
assessment before a credit agreement is entered into with a consumer. It goes on to say the 
assessment must be based on enough information:
of which it is aware at the time the creditworthiness assessment is carried out;
obtained, where appropriate, from the customer, and where necessary from a credit 
reference agency
So, in consideration of Mr Hs complaint Ive thought about whether HSBC carried out the 
appropriate affordability checks and whether on balance they should have given Mr H the 
loan.
In an email to our investigator in August 2021, HSBC confirmed the scope of their 
creditworthiness assessment included the above information. So, Im satisfied that HSBC 
had carried out a creditworthiness assessment. However, I think from the information they 
had they should have considered that the new loan wouldnt have been affordable for Mr H.
HSBC said they reviewed Mr Hs bank account turnover. Having reviewed Mr Hs account 
statements ranging from December 2018 to July 2019, although I can see a regular income 
going through the account, I can also see that Mr H spent the majority of that time within his 
overdraft. 
I think this is a key point, because the FCA also says that a firm should also have 
regard to information of which it is aware at the time the creditworthiness assessment is 
carried out that may indicate that: the customer is in, has recently experienced, or is likely to 
experience, financial difficulties.
I find that the conduct of Mr Hs bank account was an indicator that he would have struggled 
to repay the new loan and would likely experience financial difficulties as a result. I say this 
because prior to the new loan being taken out he was consistently in excess of £4,000 of his 
overdraft while he had a commitment of £274 on his existing loan. The new loan would 
increase his monthly repayments by around £55 whilst providing Mr H with an additional 
£3000 after repaying his existing loan. HSBC confirmed that they reviewed Mr Hs account 
as part of their creditworthiness assessment, So I think it would have been reasonable for 
them to consider that increasing Mr Hs monthly outgoings and increasing his overall 
indebtedness would likely have a negative impact on his financial situation.In addition, HSBC advised that they considered that Mr H had on many occasions 
refinanced previous loans since 2006. I think the pattern of refinancing should have been an 
indicator to HSBC that the new loan may have been unaffordable for Mr H. I think it should 
have prompted HSBC to have made contact with Mr H to discuss this with him so they could 
better understand his situation. 
HSBC confirmed that Mr H had been in contact with them in March 2019 to inform them of 
his financial difficulties. This was prior to the new loan being approved and evidence that Mr 
H was experiencing financial difficulties. So, from the information provided I think HSBC had 
enough opportunities to identify that the loan would have been unaffordable and so I dont 
think HSBC acted responsibly here by approving the loan for Mr H.
In their response to us HSBC said that they saw Mr H had received a larger than usual 
payment from his employer, which they took as being part of his income. As this was an 
unusual payment, and significantly higher than his normal salary I think it would have been 
reasonable for HSBC to contact Mr H to understand the nature of the payment into his 
account. Mr H has confirmed to us that the payment was a loan from his employer to assist 
him in repaying his overdraft. Mr H provided evidence of this. I think had HSBC made 
contact with Mr H in regard to this its likely they would have understood the nature of the 
payment which would have given them further cause to consider that the new loan would 
have been unaffordable for him.
Having considered all the information, for the reasons explained above Im persuaded that 
HSBC didnt act reasonably in the circumstances. I think they should have explored Mr Hs 
finances further which would have highlighted his financial position. By not taking the 
opportunities to explore Mr Hs financial situation further, I think HSBC acted irresponsibly by 
providing Mr H with a loan that was unaffordable for him.
Putting things right
As Ive found that HSBC havent acted fairly, I think they need to put things right for Mr H. Mr 
H has had the benefit of the money he borrowed and its fair that he should pay the principal 
amount back. However, I dont think Mr H should have to repay the interest and charges that 
had been applied on the new loan. I also think HSBC should arrange an affordable monthly 
repayment plan for Mr H to repay the debt. HSBC should also remove any adverse credit 
information from Mr Hs credit file in relation to this loan.
Mr H has said that the loan has left him feeling stressed and unwell. Mr H has explained the 
mental impact its had on him which has led to him receiving medication to help him with the 
worry. In consideration of this, I think its fair that Mr H should receive some compensation 
and I think £300 fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
I invited both parties to make any further comments. Mr H and HSBC both responded with 
further comments which Ill address below.
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The comments below are not exhaustive, but a summary of what I considered to be the main 
points raised by Mr H and HSBC in their respective responses to my provisional decision. To be clear, Ive considered all the information provided by both parties in relation to this 
complaint. However, to maintain the informal approach of this service Ive focussed on what 
Ive considered to be the main issues here.
Mr H made the following points in his response to my provisional decision:
1. The loan should be written off completely or the principal balance reduced because 
the lending shouldnt have been given and would take years to repay
2. The compensation should be increased because of the stress and strain that the 
situation has caused him
Having considered the comments made by Mr H, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to instruct HSBC to write off the loans principal balance or to reduce it. Although I dont think 
HSBC should have given Mr H the new loan, given that Mr H has had the benefit of the 
money he borrowed, Im satisfied that its fair he should pay the principal amount back.
Mr H described in some detail the stress and strain hes experienced as a result of the loan. I 
dont doubt what Mr H has said to us, and Im sorry to learn of the impact this has had on Mr 
Hs wellbeing. I can appreciate his strength of feeling about the whole situation. 
Having carefully considered the details of Mr Hs complaint, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to say HSBC were exclusively responsible for Mr Hs mental health by giving him 
the loan, Mr H has also referenced this in his response to us. Ive considered this in my 
provisional decision and my conclusion remains unchanged that in the circumstances I think 
£300 is a fair amount of compensation. 
HSBC made the following points within their response to my provisional decision:
1. The existing loan presented no problems for Mr H, his overdraft was in a credit 
balance prior to the loan and payments to previous loans were also maintained along 
with a good credit history 
2.Mr H would have been liable for the existing debt prior to the new loan 
3.Mr H would benefit from the interest rebate on the refinanced loan
4. As the interest on the loan was front loaded, Mr H shouldnt benefit from any refund 
of interest or added interest on a refund 
5.Removing adverse credit information wouldnt be a true reflection of Mr Hs account 
conduct
I dont think that maintaining regular payments alone is an indicator that further lending 
would be affordable. In the circumstances of Mr Hs complaint I think its evident that the new 
loan was unaffordable, for example the pattern of refinancing previous loans was likely to be 
an indicator of affordability concerns, the dependence Mr H had on his overdraft, which 
suggested he had a degree of reliance on the credit facility and the employers loan that was 
used to repay it. As explained in my decision I think these were all indicators that should 
have prompted HSBC to review Mr Hs financial situation to ensure that any further lending 
would be affordable for him.
HSBC explained that the interest on Mr Hs loans were front loaded, so when it was settled a 
rebate amount had been deducted from the total balance.  
The interest rebate applied to the refinanced loan isnt something that I think is central to any 
settlement. What I consider to be within scope of this decision is the refinancing loan of £13,630 and the interest and charges that had been added to that loan, because Ive already 
considered that HSBC shouldnt have given Mr H this loan.
I think its fair that Mr H shouldnt have to pay any interest or charges applied on the new 
loan. Im persuaded that HSBC didnt act fairly when it gave Mr H the loan because it was 
unaffordable for him. So, any interest already paid by Mr H on the new loan should be 
refunded with 8% simple interest added from payment to the date of settlement. I also dont 
see how Mr H has unfairly benefited. That Mr H used the new loan to refinance an existing 
loan which had an amount of interest rebated, I think is consequential in the circumstances, 
and not something that should be considered an unfair benefit for Mr H. 
Under the Consumer Credit (early settlement) Regulations 2004, its likely Mr H would have 
been entitled to an interest rebate on the refinanced loan.
The missed payments on the new loan started around three months after it was given to Mr 
H. HSBC said in their response to my decision that Mr H would have missed payments on 
the refinanced loan and so removing the adverse information wouldnt be a true reflection of 
Mr Hs account. However, I dont think its reasonable in the circumstances to suggest what 
may have happened on a loan that had been repaid. My decision is centred around whether 
HSBC acted responsibly by giving Mr H the new loan; and in the circumstances I think that 
removing the adverse credit information in relation to that loan is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Having considered all the information provided, I still consider my provisional decision to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Neither party has added anything which gives me 
cause to change this. Therefore, for the reasons as set out above and in my provisional 
decision, Im satisfied that HSBC irresponsibly gave Mr H a loan that was not affordable for 
him. So, my final decision is the same. 
I recognise that this decision is likely to be disappointing for HSBC, however I can assure 
them that Ive considered all the evidence provided and believe on balance that my 
provisional findings are fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable, in the
circumstances I uphold this complaint and instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
refund all the interest and charges that Mr H has paid to date in relation to the new 
loan
ensure that the loan is not subject to any future interest or charges
remove any adverse information that may have been recorded with the credit 
reference agencies in respect of this loan
pay Mr H £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds calculated from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
If HSBC UK Bank Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriateUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman