DRN-3783162
The complaint
Mr C complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) didnt do enough to protect him when 
he fell victim to a scam, failed to act when he notified it of the issue, and hasnt reimbursed 
him for the loss. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. Instead, Ill summarise what happened and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
In April 2021, Mr C said he became the victim of fraud when he gave his card details 
to a person who offered to track a previous BitCoin investment and reclaim it for him. 
He agreed to a charge of £436 for this service. Without his authorisation, two further 
payments of £500 were also made. 
Mr C said he contacted Vanquis and logged a complaint within 10 minutes of 
discovering the fraud. Mr C believes that it would have been possible to reverse the 
fraudulent payment given how quickly he notified Vanquis of the fraud. But he said he 
didnt hear anything from Vanquis until July 2021. 
Vanquis raised a chargeback. But the chargeback was unsuccessful as the merchant 
involved in the transaction is a legitimate cryptocurrency provider that fulfilled the 
service it was required to  the purchase of cryptocurrency.
While Vanquis didnt agree to refund Mr Cs losses, it refunded two charges of £12 
for over limit fees. It also gave Mr C £75 to reflect some service failings, including 
matters around communication and a delay in freezing the transactions for the 
purposes of accruing interest etc.
Our investigator considered this complaint and upheld it in part. He concluded that 
Vanquis should refund the two £500 payments on the basis that they were 
unauthorised transactions made using a credit facility. In addition, he said it should 
refund any interest, fees or charges associated with the £1,000, and remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a direct result of the fraud. But 
he didnt think it should refund the initial payment of £436.
Vanquis agreed to the refund of the £1,000 plus associated interest, fees, and 
charges. In terms of the credit file, it said that, as Mr C is being held responsible for 
the first payment, there was still a minimum payment due by October 2021  the 
month after the payments were re-debited  and no further payments were received. 
So, it believes the account position has been correctly reported to the credit 
reference agencies and sees no reason for removing any adverse credit history 
applied from October 2021.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He reiterated how quickly hed notified 
Vanquis of an issue and believes he must be entitled to a cooling-off period, or 
similar. And he said that if Vanquis accepted liability for the second and third 
payment, it has to accept it for the full amount. He doesnt believe Vanquis pursued 
the fraudsters to any degree and feels it was seriously negligent in managing his 
account so should be held accountable for the whole loss. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. Ill explain why below. 
But, before I do, Id just like to mention that Ive not commented on every individual detail. 
Ive focused on the details that are central to me reaching what I consider to be a fair 
outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
As Vanquis has accepted that the second and third payments should be refunded, 
along with the associated fees etc. I dont see the need to focus too much on this. 
Instead, Ill focus on the first payment. However, I would just note that these two 
payments of £500 were unauthorised  Mr C didnt agree to them being made. And 
its because of this, and the fact the payments were made using a credit facility (a 
credit card) that Vanquis has been asked to refund these. 
Turning to the first payment of £436 (plus associated fees), its not in dispute that 
Mr C authorised this, albeit not realising he was being scammed  he notes that he 
instigated the charge. So, the starting position  in line with the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017  is that hes liable for the transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id 
expect Vanquis to have systems in place to monitor for indications of fraud. In some 
circumstances, when such a risk is identified, Id expect it to make additional checks 
before processing a payment. If it failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent 
loss, it might be fair to hold Vanquis liable. 
Ive considered whether Vanquis ought to have made additional checks on the 
disputed payment. And I dont think it ought to have. I say this because the payment 
was made to a legitimate cryptocurrency provider. And, while I appreciate that its not 
an insignificant amount of money to lose to a scam, its a relatively low payment  
and not one Id expect to have flagged up on Vanquis fraud alert systems as being 
unusual or out of character. So, I dont think it would be fair to expect Vanquis to 
have intervened with this payment.
I recognise that Mr C contacted Vanquis very quickly after falling victim to the scam. 
But, as the payment didnt trigger Vanquiss fraud systems, it wouldnt have been 
able to stop the authorised payment, regardless of how quickly it acted. The only way 
this money could be returned by Vanquis from this point would be if the merchant 
didnt pull the payment, in which case the funds would eventually have been 
returned to Mr Cs account.
Vanquis raised a chargeback, but it was unsuccessful. As outlined above, this is 
because the payment went to a legitimate cryptocurrency provider that carried out 
the service it was required to  the purchase of cryptocurrency. It doesnt appear that a Section 75 claim (under the Consumer Credit Act 1974) has 
been considered. However, to uphold a claim for a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, there would need to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. In this 
case, as the payment went via a legitimate merchant, the debtor-creditor-supplier 
chain is broken. I say this because the supplier that seems to have misrepresented 
themselves to Mr C  the caller  was not a party to the payments. And, as 
referenced above, the cryptocurrency provider carried out the service it was required 
to provide. So, I dont consider a Section 75 claim to have had a reasonable prospect 
of success.
So, I dont think Vanquis acted in error by not intervening with these payments. And I 
think it did what it reasonably should have to try to recover the payments. I also note 
that Vanquis wouldnt be expected to pursue the fraudsters  that would be a matter 
for a relevant authority, such as the police.  
Mr C believes he must be entitled to a cooling-off period, or similar. However, once 
the payment was made to the merchant, it was outside of Vanquiss control. Any form 
of cooling-off period would involve contacting the merchant. 
So, in summary, I wont be asking Vanquis to refund Mr C for the first payment. And 
that does mean that he was, and remains, liable for this debt. It also means that 
where payments fell due on this portion of the debt, he was required to make these 
and has chosen not to. Banks are required to accurately report to credit reference 
agencies. It would be inaccurate for Vanquis to report that payments were made 
when they werent, or not to report at all.  
Im sorry Mr C has been the victim of a scam. I note hes told us he was in a lot of pain at the 
time of falling for the scam and wouldnt normally have given his details out so readily. But 
Im afraid this doesnt change that the first payment was authorised  Vanquis couldnt have 
known about this. So, for the reasons given above, I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Vanquis to refund the first payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I direct Vanquis Bank Limited to:
- Refund Mr C the two unauthorised payments of £500 (along with any associated 
interest, fees, and charges); and
- If applicable, amend Mr Cs credit file to remove any adverse information recorded in 
relation to these two payments only.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman