DRN-3059065
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) declined to offer her a refund 
after she was the victim of a scam.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too much detail 
here. However, in summary, Mrs S has been the victim of a scam. She met a man (who we 
now know to be a fraudster) on a social networking site in 2019. She and the man began 
talking. Around 3 weeks later the man started to ask for money. He told Mrs S that he was 
an engineer working on an oil-rig in Italy and he was able to persuade her to pay for a piece 
of machinery on the rig that he said was broken. The man told Mrs S that if she didnt give 
him the money to pay for the new part, he and his fellow employees would lose their lives. 
Mrs S was also told that any transferred funds would be paid back to her in around two 
weeks - when the man was able to get off the rig and access his own funds.
So, on 27th August 2019, Mrs S went into branch and transferred £9,594.26 to an 
international bank account. RBS say that a Customer Protection Checklist (CPC) was 
completed by its cashier in branch at the time and the notes set out that Mrs S said she was 
buying machinery for business purposes. She also told branch staff that she knew the payee 
personally and was happy everything was genuine. She also confirmed she was transferring 
the money to a friends Italian account who would then buy the part from the machinery 
company. 
The CPC also contains the following question that RBS said wouldve been asked at the 
time:
Relationships where you have never met the individual face to face often result in a request 
for you to send funds urgently to help out. This is a scam, no matter how convincing the 
relationship may seem. Are you making this payment to someone you have never actually 
met face to face?
RBSs notes from the time detail that Mrs S responded with a no to this question. They also 
note that branch staff enquired why Mrs S wasnt making the payment to the machinery 
company directly and Mrs S said this was the way she had been asked to transfer the 
money and she trusted her friend implicitly.
A few days later, the man told Mrs S that the new part he had purchased was not right and 
he needed to borrow more money to purchase the correct part. He reiterated that many 
people would die if Mrs S didnt send the money and also threatened to kill himself. 
On 30 August 2019, Mrs S makes a second payment. This time amounting to £39,004.79 
and again to an international bank account. Another CPC is completed and Mrs S tells 
branch staff that she is again sending money to a friend to pay for machinery. She tells 
branch staff she is expecting to be repaid in two weeks and is able to provide the name of 
the company that the machinery is being purchased from. However, Mrs S is becoming 
suspicious of what the man is telling her and she returns to the branch the next day to ask if 
the payment can be stopped. Mrs S speaks to someone at the door who tells her the 
payment cannot be stopped and Mrs S leaves. 
Over the next couple of weeks, the man persuades Mrs S that she needs to send a further 
amount. This time to pay for a ship to get him and the crew off the oil-rig. Mrs S is 
suspicious, worried and upset but the man tells her that if he doesnt get back to land, she 
won get any of her money back. Having already paid a substantial amount and worried she 
wont get any of it back, Mrs S agrees to make a further payment. On 11 September she 
transfers a further £45,030. A CPC is completed in branch and again Mrs S tells branch staff 
she is paying for machinery/transport and shipping fees with the company she is using being 
based in the Mediterranean.
A couple of days after this transfer, Mrs S goes into branch again to make a fourth payment. 
But this time she is turned away by branch staff who refuse to make any further payments 
until Mrs S is able to provide a legitimate invoice for the purchases she says she is making. 
Mrs S then tells RBS that she has been the victim of a scam and RBS raise a fraud 
investigation. Following their investigation, RBS decline to offer Mrs S a refund. RBS say 
that they are satisfied branch staff followed the correct processes at the time of each 
payment and the relevant CPCs were completed. RBS say that Mrs S ultimately mislead 
branch staff by saying she had met the person she was transferring money to face-to-face 
and by not telling them the full details of why she was making the payments. RBS state that 
this meant branch staff hadnt been able to uncover and prevent the scam despite their 
efforts. And so RBS didnt think it should now be held liable for the payments.
Unhappy with RBSs response, Mrs S bought her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be partially upheld. She said the 
payments Mrs S made were unusual and shouldve prompted further questioning from RBS 
 over and above what had been asked in branch at the time.  She recognised that the 
information provided by Mrs S to branch staff had made it more difficult for RBS to uncover 
the scam but ultimately the onus was on RBS to satisfy itself that the payments being made 
were legitimate and she didnt think the story put forward by Mrs S was persuasive enough 
to persuade branch staff Mrs S wasnt at risk of financial harm. She thought Mrs Ss 
cover-story wouldve unravelled fairly quickly had RBS asked some further probing 
questions, knowing that customers in Mrs Ss situation are often given a cover-story to 
provide to the bank. Our investigator thought had further questions been asked or had Mrs S 
been asked to provide some kind of documentation, such as the invoice which later 
unravelled the scam, the scam wouldve been uncovered and Mrs Ss loss prevented. 
Our investigator also recognised that Mrs S should bear some responsibility for her losses 
too. She pointed out that Mrs S had gone on to send the final payment despite being 
suspicious that she had been the victim of a scam and so at this point, our Investigator 
thought Mrs S had failed to mitigate her losses. To recognise this, our Investigator 
recommended that RBS refund the first two payments Mrs S made in full (plus interest) and 
she recommended it refund half of the final payment. 
Mrs S accepted our Investigators findings but RBS did not. RBS maintained that it should 
only be liable for 50% of Mrs Ss loss. It recognised that it could have done more to help Mrs 
S but ultimately felt that its ability to help had been made much more difficult by Mrs S 
misleading its branch staff. RBS therefore felt it would be fair to accept joint responsibility 
with Mrs S and refund 50% of her total loss. Mrs S did not accept. As an agreement has not been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. Having taken into account all of the above, I am partially upholding this 
complaint for largely the same reasons as our Investigator has previously set out. Ill explain 
why.
It is not now in dispute that the transactions shouldve prompted further questioning from 
RBS and RBS has accepted that it couldve done more to prevent Mrs S losses. It follows 
that the only thing left here for me to decide is the extent to which RBS should be held liable. 
Ive thought carefully about what RBS has said about Mrs S also sharing responsibility for 
the processing of the first two payments. And I agree with RBS that Mrs S did not disclose all 
of the circumstances that had led to her requesting the payments in branch. However, as 
RBS will be aware, customers in Mrs Ss position are often provided with a cover-story by 
the fraudsters they are speaking with in order to maximise the chances of success of the 
payment. This is a hallmark of this particular type of scam and its for the bank, as the 
industry expert, to satisfy itself that their customer is not at risk of financial harm before 
processing payments at their customers request. And having thought carefully about what 
happened in this particular case, I dont think RBS did enough to satisfy itself Mrs S wasnt at 
risk of financial harm. Of particular relevance here is the Banking Protocol, so I have 
provided more detail below. 
The Banking Protocol
The Banking Protocol is a multi-agency initiative between the Police, financial sector 
organisations (including banks, building societies and The Post Office) and Trading 
Standards aimed at identifying customers who are in the process of being defrauded and 
implementing safeguarding procedures to prevent their repeat victimisation and further loss 
of funds. It has been fully in force since March 2018.
In broad terms, according to the UK Finances toolkit for financial businesses, firms should: 
-       Look out for any unusual or out of character withdrawals and to implement the Banking 
Protocol procedure when such transactions are identified.
-       Discreetly question the customer about any identified withdrawal or transaction and their 
reasons for making it, keeping in mind that the customer may have been told they are 
helping to catch a corrupt bank employee and may have been given a cover story to tell if 
asked about the transaction.
-       Consider the responses against what they expect normal activity on the individuals 
account. If they are concerned or suspicious that the customer may be the victim of fraud, 
they should notify a senior member of staff, who should take the customer to a quiet area 
and ask further questions to establish more details.-       If the senior colleague believes the customer is the victim of fraud, either as a result of 
the answers provided or through their general behaviour, they should call the Police 
immediately who will attend the branch to speak to the customer.
The initial transaction Mrs S was attempting to make was out of character and unusual when 
compared with Mrs Ss usual account activity. And the branch notes suggest that at least 
some effort was made in branch to question Mrs S about it. However, the Banking Protocol 
sets out that branch staff should ask discreet questions as to the nature and purpose of the 
transaction (when a transaction is deemed unusual and out of character), and should keep in 
mind that customers may have been given a cover-story  like Mrs S had here. And I think 
there were enough red-flags here to have reasonably prompted additional action from RBS. 
But it appears that Mrs Ss answers to the questions posed in branch were essentially taken 
at face-value - despite the Banking Protocol setting out that scam victims may not always be 
willing to tell branch staff the whole truth when initially questioned.
This is a particularly common type of scam, and it should be something branch staff are 
encouraged to look out for, particularly where payments are of a high value and are being 
sent abroad, which is a common feature of this type of scam. The transaction Mrs S was 
attempting to make had all of the above hallmarks. And the story she had put forward, that 
she was paying a friend abroad to buy machinery was also somewhat odd. I also think its 
reasonable to assume that RBS branch staff had at least some suspicions when they asked 
why Mrs S wasnt making the transfer to the machinery company directly. 
So, whilst I accept Mrs S didnt tell branch staff the whole truth about the reasons she was 
making the transfer in branch, Im not persuaded that this is what led to the success of the 
scam. Im satisfied that RBS asked further probing questions, in line with its obligations 
under the Banking Protocol, the scam couldve been prevented  despite Mrs Ss cover-
story.  
I say this because, had RBS asked further questions, Im not persuaded Mrs S wouldve 
been able to answer them confidently. She knew her story wasnt strictly true, she had 
simply been told to say what she needed to say to make sure the payments were processed, 
she hadnt thought about her answers in any great detail. So, Im not persuaded she would 
have been able to provide plausible and persuasive answers that would have left branch 
staff satisfied that she wasnt at risk of financial harm or being scammed. The reason for the 
payment is unusual in itself and under scrutiny would have become clearly suspicious. The 
Banking protocol couldve been invoked and the scam prevented. My conclusions on this 
point are further supported by the fact that when branch staff do probe further and ask Mrs S 
to provide an invoice that will support what she is telling branch staff, the scam comes to 
light and further payments are prevented. 
And so for the reasons set out above, Im not satisfied it would be reasonable to hold Mrs S 
jointly liable for the first two transactions. However, I agree with the investigator that Mrs S 
should bear some responsibility for her losses in relation to the final transaction. I appreciate 
Mrs S made this transfer in order to try and resolve everything and get her money back. 
However, Mrs S was suspicious enough after the second transaction to try and stop it 
leaving her account. And whilst I acknowledge the reasons why she went on to make the 
final payment, I also have to acknowledge that Mrs S has contributed to her losses here - by 
continuing to send money to the scammer when she was already suspicious that she had 
fallen victim to a scam. In continuing to send further funds and by not notifying her bank or a 
friend or family member as to what was happening, Mrs S exposed herself to further risk. 
And so Im satisfied Mrs S should fairly and reasonably bear some responsibility for her loss 
in regard to the third payment  amounting to 50%. This also recognises that RBS shouldve 
asked further probing questions thats may have prevented the scam from the outset. My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to partially uphold this 
complaint about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  and I therefore require the bank 
to:
Refund the first two transactions in full.
Refund half of the final transaction - amounting to £22,515.
Apply 8% simple interest to the first transaction and to £29,827.43 of the second 
transaction - from the time the amounts left Mrs Ss account until the date of refund.
Apply interest at Mrs Ss ISA account rate to the remaining £9,176.57 of the second 
transaction - from the date the amount left her account to the date of settlement.
I am not recommending any interest be paid on the final transaction
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman