DRN-2042255
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) has failed 
to commence payment of an annuity he purchased, on the correct date.
What happened
Mr B held a personal pension with Prudential. In June 2018 Mr B advised Prudential of his 
intention to retire on 1 August when he reached 61 years of age and requested quotations 
to show the pension benefits that were available to him. The receipt of those quotations 
was not a straightforward process for Mr B. Prudential appears to have initially overlooked 
his request. And then the quotations sent to Mr B used an incorrect retirement age. So it 
took some considerable time before Mr Bs pension was put into payment. But I have 
seen that Prudential has paid Mr B considerable compensation for those delays and Mr B 
no longer considers this part of his initial complaint to the business to require further 
resolution.
The pension plan that Mr B held with Prudential offered a valuable guarantee in the form 
of a guaranteed annuity rate. The terms of that plan provided for pension income to be 
paid annually in arrears. The first payment would be due of the anniversary of the benefits 
being put into payment. But Prudential offered alternative payment terms to Mr B. The 
quotation that he accepted meant that his pension benefits would be paid monthly, in 
advance.
Although there were problems, as Ive noted above, with the setting up of Mr Bs 
pension benefits, Prudential agreed to honour the start date that Mr B had originally 
requested. So Mr Bs pension benefits commenced on 1 August 2018. But because of 
the delay in setting up the annuity, Mr B didnt receive his first payment until 
January 2019. That payment included the backdated income that Prudential calculated 
was due to Mr B.
Prudentials calculations indicated that the first monthly payment that was due to Mr B 
should have been paid on 1 September 2018. Mr B considers that the first payment due 
to him should have been paid on 1 August 2018. So he complained to Prudential that his 
backdated payments were short of one months income. Prudential didnt agree with 
Mr Bs complaint so he brought it to this Service.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2020. In that decision I said;
The original terms of Mr Bs pension plan were clear. His pension benefits would be 
paid annually in arrears. So here I think the first payment to Mr B would have been 
due on 1 August 2019 and would cover the period from 1 August 2018 to 
31 July 2019. A second annual payment period would commence on 1 August 
2019.
But Prudential offered Mr B an alternative payment frequency. Instead it offered to pay 
his benefits to him monthly, in advance. So that suggests to me that by the end of 
July 2019 Mr B should have received his entire first years payment. And since each 
monthly payment was made on the first day of the month, that would suggest to me 
that the payment he received on 1 July 2019 should have been his twelfth instalment, 
paid in advance of, and covering, the month to the end of his first year of payment on 
31 July 2019. And so following on from that the first payment due to Mr B should have 
been made on 1 August 2018.
It makes little sense to me, as Prudential suggests, that a pension commencing on 
1 August 2018 with payments being made in advance wouldnt have the first payment due 
until 1 September 2018. That would leave a period of a month where no income was 
payable  or would suggest that the payments were being made monthly in arrears. That 
is not the payment frequency that Prudential offered to Mr B.
For completeness I should note that before agreeing to accept Prudentials benefit 
quotation Mr B asked for a number of matters to be clarified. In particular he asked 
whether the first payment would cover the months of August, September and October. 
Prudential answered that question by replying that the first payment will include all 
payments due from the annuitys start date.
I have to say that I dont find Prudentials reply to Mr B particularly helpful. He asked 
a specific question, listing the months for which he thought payment should be made. 
And Prudentials reply is, to my mind, rather vague. I doubt Mr B would have 
expected that the first payment wouldnt include those payments that were due to 
him.
But I only include this detail for completeness. I dont think it particularly matters, given 
the vague nature of Prudentials response, whether or not Mr B could have reasonably 
taken that response to mean that the first payment was due on 1 August 2018. My 
finding above is that it is logically correct that the first payment should have been made 
on 1 August 2018 and so the inference Mr B drew from Prudentials reply, whether or 
not that was what it intended, is supported by the facts of the matter. I think, if 
Prudential had given him a clearer response, that it thought the payments should only 
start on 1 September 2018, Mr Bs complaint would still stand, and would have been 
answered by me in the same manner.
Mr B has said that he agrees with my provisional decision. He has confirmed that he 
expected the initial payment to include backdated income to the start of the policy. And that 
he saw no inconsistency with the first payment being made later than the policy start date, 
as long as that payment included the relevant back pay. That would mean that any future 
payments were in advance as had been agreed. He did however ask that I consider 
whether an additional payment should be made by Prudential to cover the costs and 
disbursements he has incurred in making his complaint.
Prudential doesnt agree with my provisional decision. It maintains that in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy the annuity has been set up correctly. Those show that the first 
payment would be due on 1 September, being the first of the month following the retirement 
date. And it has directed me towards a decision issued by another ombudsman in 2012 that 
it thinks supports that conclusion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The additional comments that Prudential have made in response to my provisional decision 
have not made me change my mind. Mr Bs pension commenced on 1 August. So he should 
expect to receive income from that date. If the first payment was due on 1 September then that would suggest, incorrectly, that he had agreed to receive his payments in arrears. But 
the quotation that Prudential provided was for payments to be made in advance. I dont see 
any contradiction between a payment being owed in advance to cover the month of August 
and the first payment actually being made on 1 September to cover two months worth of 
income.
As Prudential was paying Mr B in advance it needed to have completed its payments for the 
first year before the end of that period. That end date was 31 July 2019. So a payment made 
on 1 August 2019 cannot be seen to form part of that years income if it was being paid in 
advance.
I have considered the historic decision that Prudential has directed me towards. As 
Prudential knows we consider each complaint on its own merits. That is important since in 
the majority of cases the circumstances behind each complaint differ greatly. And I think that 
is the case here  this isnt simply a matter of a payment being made on an agreed date. 
Prudential offered to vary the terms of its agreement with Mr B, changing his payment 
frequency from annually in arrears to monthly in advance. And it is that agreement that sets 
when the first payment is due.
As I said in my provisional decision Prudential has already paid Mr B some compensation in 
respect of the inconvenience he was caused by the delays to his pension payments. And it 
has compensated him for the financial losses those delays caused too. I dont underestimate 
the time that Mr B has spent in dealing with this complaint. But Im sorry that I cannot agree 
Prudential should pay additional compensation for that over and above what it has already 
paid.
But I do agree that Prudential has failed to pay the first months income that was due to 
Mr B and so it needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I direct Prudential to pay Mr B an additional months income to cover the period 
1 to 31 August 2018. I additionally direct Prudential to add simple interest at a rate of 8% 
per annum to this amount from 1 August 2018 to the date of settlement. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Prudential to take off tax from this interest. Prudential 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 Paul Reilly
Ombudsman