DRN-1506656
 
Complaint
Mrs H complains that HSBC UK Bank plc breached its duty of confidentiality when it 
provided information about accounts held in the name of her late mother, Ms H, to a third 
party.
Background
Mrs H, acted as a deputy, on an account her late mother, Ms H, held with HSBC. Ms H sadly 
passed away. HSBC was informed of her death by a third party who was also next of kin. 
Mrs H says that HSBC shouldnt have acted on this information since shed been appointed 
as deputy on the account and it shouldve contacted her before stopping the account.
The third party also asked HSBC to provide her with historical statements on the account 
and copies of various cheques. HSBC gave this information to the third party.
Mrs H says she provided HSBC with copy Letters of Administration which stated shed been 
appointed as the sole representative of the estate of her late mother. So, she says that 
HSBC shouldnt have provided any information to the third party. And, she says shes 
suffered significant stress and financial loss as a result of HSBCs actions. 
After she asked it to close the account, Mrs H says that HSBC delayed taking action and it 
was some time before the account was closed. She complained to HSBC.
HSBC investigated her complaint. It said that when Ms H died the deputyship automatically 
ended. It said that it could stop the account after itd been informed of the death of Ms H and 
it didnt have to wait until Mrs H informed it of her mothers death.
In its final response letter to Mrs H, HSBC said that every beneficiary became equally 
entitled to be given historical information about the account once the deputyship ceased. It 
also said thered been no breach of Data Protection Regulations since they didnt apply to 
personal information after an individual had died.
It acknowledged that there was a slight delay in closing the account but said that this wasnt 
unusual where it had to check paperwork. But, it accepted that the request for the 
information from the third party shouldve been declined once HSBC had been provided with 
the Letters of Administration. It offered to pay £300 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs H didnt agree. She says that HSBC should pay her substantially more for the trouble 
and distress shes suffered and the legal costs that the estate has incurred. So, she 
complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He said that it wasnt in dispute that HSBC 
shouldnt have released the information to a third party. He said that although Mrs H had 
experienced stress as a result of whatd happened, she wasnt the eligible complainant. So, 
our service couldnt award compensation to Mrs H.Mrs H wasnt satisfied with the outcome and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint
At the outset Id like to express my condolences to Mrs H on the death of her mother. I can 
see that this has been a very difficult time for her and her family.
Ive considered the various points that Mrs H has raised. I agree with HSBC that it was able 
to rely on the information provided by the third party to stop the account. The third party had 
provided a copy death certificate. But, as Mrs H has said, I wouldve expected HSBC to 
contact her at that time to let her know that this meant the deputyship would cease. I think 
that wouldve been good service.
It is the case that shortly after this Mrs H was in contact with HSBC and she provided it with 
copy Letters of Administration appointing her as the sole representative of the estate. This 
meant that she had sole authority to operate the bank account. She completed the closure 
forms. I can see there was a slight delay in processing the closure but I dont think HSBC 
acted unfairly or unreasonably when it completed the administration associated with closing 
the account.
As our investigator has said there is no dispute that HSBC shouldnt have provided the 
information to the third party. This is especially the case because the third party had 
informed HSBC, when she requested the information, that Mrs H would probably be taking 
out Letters of Administration and there was a family dispute. I think that on the basis of this 
information HSBC should have proceeded with much caution before disclosing any 
information to the third party. 
HSBC has said that the Data Protection Regulations dont apply to Ms Hs personal data 
after she died. But, it is the case that HSBC still owed Ms H a duty of confidentiality. The 
issue I have to decide is whether this service should award any compensation because of 
whats happened.
Ive thought about whether the estate of Ms H suffered any financial loss as a result of the 
breach of confidentiality. I can see that the estate was asked to answer a number of 
questions, some of which were about the historical operation of the bank account. Some of 
the questions raised by the third party were about other matters associated with the 
administration of the estate.
Its clear from what the third party told HSBC, and from what Mrs H has told us, that there 
was a dispute which had been going on for some time. The third party was also a beneficiary 
of the estate. So, even if the third party hadnt been given the information by HSBC, I think 
shed still have been able to ask questions about how the bank account had been 
operated. She could also have asked the personal representative to provide information and 
documents, such as statements or copy cheques, about the bank account.  And, even if she 
hadnt been successful in her requests for information, its likely the estate wouldve incurred 
costs. In these circumstances, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require HSBC 
to pay legal costs associated with an ongoing dispute. 
Ive also considered what Mrs H has told us about the impact on her health and financial 
position. When considering the impacts of HSBCs actions, I can only take into account what they 
were on the complainant. Here, that is the estate of Ms H, as it was Ms H who had the 
relationship and account with HSBC and its her estate that now holds that position. Mrs H, 
as the representative of her estate, can bring a complaint on behalf of Ms H  but that 
doesnt mean that I can consider the impact of HSBCs actions on her directly. 
So, whilst I am very sorry to hear about the stress and financial loss that Mrs H says shes 
suffered as a consequence of whats happened here, our service cant make any award to 
her. But, as mentioned above, Ive considered the impact on the estate and the 
inconvenience caused to it. 
Having considered everything here, I think that the offer HSBC has made to pay £300 as a 
gesture of goodwill is fair and reasonable and I dont require it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H, as the 
personal representative of the estate of Ms H, to accept or reject my decision before 1 July 
2020. 
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman