DRN-1884588
The complaint
Mr F complains Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (APS) have incorrectly taken money 
from his business bank account.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won't repeat them again 
here. Instead I'll focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
APS have provided internal screenshots of Mr Fs account. Im satisfied these 
screenshots relate to his account as they show information identifying Mr F, such as 
his name and account number. It shows the transaction being claimed in June 2019, 
the transaction being marked as expired and the same amounts being released back 
into Mr Fs account in September 2019, increasing his balance.
 
APS also provided confirmation from the third party, sent to them in December 2019, 
that there had been an error resulting in the funds incorrectly being released back 
into Mr Fs account. So Im satisfied the funds were incorrectly released back into the 
account and were not Mr Fs.
 
APS accepted they could have done more to make Mr F aware of the error before 
taking the money out of his account. APS initially told Mr F he would be able to see 
the errors reflected in his statement. But they later said this wasnt the case. 
Putting things right
APS have agreed to our investigators recommendation they pay Mr F £100 compensation 
for the inconvenience caused. APS have also agreed to refund £105 worth of charges Mr F 
incurred on his account at the time. In the circumstances I think this is reasonable as it fairly 
reflects the inconvenience he has been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
To put things right Advanced Payment Solutions Limited should:
Pay Mr F £100 compensationRefund Mr F £105 for account charges
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman