DRN-2704723
The complaint
AXA France IARD has accepted responsibility for the complaint. So, to keep things simpler, 
Ill just refer to AXA in my decision as the business that sold the PPI.
Mr E says AXA mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mr E took out with a store card in August 2000. It was 
added to his account when he applied for the card in the store whilst shopping.
Mr E mainly told us he was not aware of the policy and said he would not have purchased 
the insurance had he been asked. Mr E also mentioned that he had a medical condition 
when he took out the policy so the policy may not have paid out for that condition. And hed 
also told AXA about another (different) medical condition hed had since 1987.  
Our adjudicator felt that wed seen enough information to uphold the complaint. He said the 
policy didn't cover accident and sickness claims if they resulted from a health problem Mr E 
already knew about and Mr E had mentioned having a condition at the time. So if he needed 
to claim for this, he wouldn't have been able to. 
Our adjudicator felt it was important that Mr E had understood this so he could make a 
proper choice about taking out the PPI. But he didn't think that AXA did enough to make this 
policy restriction clear to Mr E - and if it had, then our adjudicator didn't think Mr E would've 
taken the policy out.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.  
In summary, AXA accepted that, when he took out PPI, Mr E had the condition he had told 
AXA about. But AXA said it was usually a manageable condition which would not affect 
lifestyle and would be treated with medication. AXA said there was nothing to suggest the 
severity of Mr Es condition or the prolonged effect it had on his ability to work when he 
signed up for the PPI - or afterwards.
Our adjudicator asked Mr E to tell us a bit more about this condition and how it affected his 
day to day life  and in particular, whether it had ever led to him having to take time off work. 
In relation to the other medical condition Mr E had mentioned when he first contacted us, he 
told us hed had hospital treatment for this but only for a few hours a day. We also asked for 
more details about this. 
We didnt receive any response to our request for further information. So the complaint came 
to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, I dont feel I've seen enough 
information to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
AXA has given us a copy of Mr Es completed store card application. Mr E has signed in the 
PPI part of the form, next to where it says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until further 
notice. I think its reasonable to expect Mr E wouldve first read through anything he was 
asked to sign. So, although I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it 
wouldve been clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mr E to say if he wanted to have PPI 
added on. Mr E also signed the completed application at the end of the form. So it seems to 
me that he must have agreed with the information on the form at the time  even if, 
understandably, he has forgotten this now. On balance, I think Mr E was aware the policy 
was optional and he chose to take it out.
AXA should have given Mr E enough clear information to decide if the policy was right for 
him. Its possible some information AXA gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. So I need to consider if Mr E wouldve acted differently, and not bought the 
policy, if clearer information had been provided. 
The policy couldve paid out for as long as Mr E was off work sick or if Mr E lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. In the event of a successful claim, the policy couldve 
cleared the card balance if Mr E wasnt able to go back to work. 
Mr E told us that he was only able to rely on his employer paying him a few days worth of 
sick pay and he didnt have any other ways to pay his store card if he wasnt able to work. 
So I think Mr E couldve benefitted from the policy if hed needed to claim.
 
Looking at the likely policy wording, I think Mr E wouldnt have been covered for a medical 
condition he knew about or should have known about or for which he received advice, 
treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the PPI start date.
Mr E told AXA that hed had at least one of his medical conditions since 1987. So its likely 
that he probably wouldnt have been covered for absence from work due to that condition. 
But Ive seen nothing to suggest that, when he arranged the PPI, Mr E had any reason to 
think that this condition (or the other condition he mentioned to us) was likely to affect his 
ability to work. I say this because Ive seen no information (despite our adjudicator asking) 
about any problems his conditions had caused him before August 2000 and if or how these 
had affected him day to day. I havent been told if hed ever had to take any significant time 
off work because of his conditions before he took out the PPI. 
AXA says that as the condition Mr E mentioned to it is one that can be managed, sometimes 
with medication if needed, it doesn't believe Mr E wouldve had any reason to think hed be 
likely to need to claim on the policy as a direct result of his condition. And I think thats 
broadly true of the other medical condition that Mr E mentioned to us.
Looking at the information I've got, I havent seen enough to be able to fairly say that, when 
he took out the PPI, Mr E wouldve had any reason to expect his conditions to lead to him 
being off work for long enough for him to need to make a sickness claim. 
And Mr E still had the benefit of other cover that the policy offered. Given his lack of any 
other dependable ways to pay his store card if he wasnt working, I think the policy offered 
Mr E useful protection as it wouldve covered absence from work due to accident or any 
sickness unrelated to his conditions or if he became unemployed. As a result, I dont think its likely that having clearer information about the policys limitations and exclusions for an 
existing medical condition wouldve put Mr E off taking it out. So I cant fairly say that hes 
lost out as a result of paying for the policy. 
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Mr E clear enough information about the costs of the 
policy. But Mr E chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he seems to have 
wanted it at the time. And Mr E indicated on the application form that he was happy to pay to 
have it. Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mr E, I think it unlikely he wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think hed 
still have taken out the policy. 
This means, as things stand, Im not currently planning to tell AXA that it needs to do 
anything to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Neither party has made any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman