DRN-4188522
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Bastion Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy that it 
turned down a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Bastion includes its agents.
What happened
Mr M made a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy after he lost his phone. When 
Bastion looked into the claim it turned it down. It said Mr M was in a public house at the time 
the phone was lost or stolen. And it believed he was under the influence of alcohol, so it 
declined the claim. This was because there was an exclusion under the policy meaning that 
there was no cover in place for accidental damage, loss, or theft while under the influence of 
alcohol. As Mr M wasnt happy about this he complained to Bastion and then this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M and asked Bastion for information and details 
around the decline of Mr Ms claim. And as it didnt provide all of the relevant information she 
decided the case on the information available and upheld the complaint. She didnt think 
Bastion had sufficient evidence to say that Mr M was under the influence of alcohol at the 
time of loss. So, she thought Bastion should pay the claim and £100 compensation for the 
clear stress and inconvenience all this had caused him.
As Bastion didnt respond the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. It is a shame that Bastions agent 
hasnt provided the relevant information requested or said whether it does or doesnt agree 
with the investigators position or not. So, Ive had to finalise my decision on the evidence 
available.
Bastion has declined the claim as it believes Mr M was under the influence of alcohol. The 
clause says it wont pay a claim when Accidental Damage, Loss or Theft while You were 
under the influence of alcohol and/or drug, 
However, I havent been provided with any detail or evidence to support this position. Just 
because Mr M was in a public house doesnt mean he was drinking or under the influence of 
alcohol. Mr M has explained that he wasnt drinking at the time. And without any evidence to 
the contrary I cant say Bastion has acted fairly here.
As such, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do is for Bastion to settle the claim. If Mr M 
has already replaced the phone, which would be understandable given the months of delay, 
it should pay him the cash equivalent of the value of his phone. And it should pay £100 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused by the delay in settling the claim.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Bastion 
Insurance Company Limited to settle the claim as outlined above and to pay £100 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman