DRN-2951215
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) in relation to a direct debit 
request (DDR) from her account that was cancelled. The DDR was in connection with her 
husbands life insurance policy.
 
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in great detail here. But broadly summarised, Mrs Rs husband held a level term 
life insurance policy and the DDR was made from Mrs Rs account with Barclays.
In May 2015, a DDR was returned. Ultimately as a result of further non-payments of the 
premiums  the policy was cancelled. Mrs R says there were funds in her account in 
May 2015 and says she hadnt cancelled the DDR.
Mrs R initially complained about the insurer, as she thought the fault regarding the 
cancellation of the DDR may have laid with them. The complaint about the insurer was 
referred to our service in 2018. 
Our service didnt consider the merits of the complaint. The insurer had issued its final 
response letter to Mrs Rs husband on 23 December 2015 and within it, it advised Mr R he 
had six months from the date of that letter to refer the complaint to our service  if he 
remained unhappy. As the complaint was brought in 2018, an ombudsman concluded it was 
brought outside of the time limits that our service has to apply. 
Mrs R remained unhappy with matter. And as she strongly believed she hadnt cancelled the 
DDR, she considered Barclays had. Mrs R says the cancellation of the life insurance policy 
had a massive impact, as they werent able to re-instate the old policy and her husband was 
unable to take out a new policy. Mrs R would like her old policy re-instated and considers 
Barclays are at fault and should be held liable for the sums due under her husbands policy. 
Mrs R raised her concerns and had ongoing correspondence about the matter with Barclays 
in 2020. Barclays wrote out to Mrs R in August 2020 explaining that given the time that had 
passed since the cancelled DDR it was unable to see who cancelled it. It suggested that 
either the insurer or Mrs R may have cancelled it. And in later correspondence it also 
explained that it would not cancel a DDR unless instructed to do so.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mrs R referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. In investigating the 
complaint, while Barclays due to the time that had elapsed werent able to provide proof of 
who had cancelled the DDR, our investigator referred to the case file that was submitted by 
the insurer to this service in 2018  as it contained information regarding the cancellation of 
the policy and information about the DDR from May 2015. 
Our investigator concluded, on the balance of probabilities, that the information gathered by 
the insurer in 2015 showed Barclays hadnt cancelled the DDR to the insurer  so they didnt 
conclude Barclays were at fault or should be held liable. 
Mrs R disagreed with the investigators opinion. Mrs R strongly believes that she didnt 
cancel the DDR in May 2015 and Barclays are at fault. 
As the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Before I go on to explain my findings, I would like to comment on two aspects.
First, from reviewing all of Mrs Rs submissions, I would like to acknowledge her strength of 
feelings on the matter and acknowledge the impact the cancelled life insurance policy has 
had.
Second, within this complaint, I cant comment on the actions of the insurer and the 
cancellation of the policy in 2015. The actions of the insurer are a separate matter and the 
complaint about the insurer was referred outside of the time limits that this service has to 
apply. Within this decision, I can only consider the DDR cancellation from Mrs Rs account 
held with Barclays in May 2015 and determine whether I think Barclays were at fault in any 
way.
The DDR cancellation occurred around six years ago  so it isnt surprising that Barclays 
doesnt now have full information to hand. That said, I have to agree with Barclays when it 
says that its process isnt to cancel a DDR unless instructed. This is standard practice within 
the banking industry. That said, I am mindful things can and do go wrong.
However, in this case, as Mrs Rs husband referred a complaint about the insurer to our 
service in 2018, in which Mrs R was his representative, our service had information available 
from the insurer which included some information about the cancelled DDR in May 2015.
In short, the information the insurer obtained in 2015 included a Bankers' Automated 
Clearing System (BACS) report. The insurers notes at the time of investigating Mrs Rs 
husbands complaint about the policy stated:
REVIEWED BACS REPORT AND CUSTOMER CANCELLED THE DIRECT DEBIT 
ON 8 MAY 2015 AND PREMIUM WE APPLIED FOR ON 10 MAY 2015 WAS 
RETURNED UNPAID AS A RESULT. THIS WAS FOR PREMIUM DUE ON 28 
APRIL 2015.
The insurer explained this to Mrs Rs husband in its final response letter of 
23 December 2015 where it stated:
On 8 May 2015 we received an instruction from your bank that your direct debit was 
cancelled. Your bank told us the instruction was 'cancelled by payer'. This meant the 
premium due on 28 April 2015, which we applied for on 10 May 2015, was returned 
unpaid.It isnt uncommon for two parties to disagree on what happened. Where this happens, and 
while Mrs R strongly believes she didnt cancel the DDR, I have to weigh up all the evidence 
that is presented to me. From this, I have to reach a decision based on what I think that 
evidence or information shows me and what I think is most likely to have happened based 
on the balance of probabilities. 
So while I know my outcome will disappoint Mrs R, I consider, based on the balance of 
probabilities, the information obtained from 2015 shows that it was more likely than not that 
Barclays didnt cancel the DDR to the insurer. The information suggests that the instruction 
to cancel the DDR came from the payer. 
Given the above, I dont think it would fair or reasonable to hold Barclays liable for the DDR 
cancellation and the knock-on effect it had with the policy subsequently being cancelled.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman