DRN-3068353
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA, didnt uphold a claim that she made 
under its buyer protection scheme in her favour.
What happened
Ms M purchased several items of clothing online and paid using her PayPal account. When 
the items arrived, Ms M didnt feel that the clothing was to a sufficient standard of quality, so 
she attempted to return the items to the vendor. However, the vendor didnt respond to Ms 
Ms return request, so Ms M contacted PayPal and requested a reimbursement for the cost 
of the items under PayPals buyer protection scheme.
PayPal reviewed Ms Ms reimbursement claim, but they noted that Ms M had raised the 
claim on the basis that the items received were significantly not as described. PayPal further 
noted that Ms Ms description of the quality of the items not being to the standard she 
expected didnt meet the criteria necessary for a claim on the basis that Ms M had raised it 
to be successful. So, they didnt uphold Ms Ms reimbursement claim.
Ms M wasnt happy that her claim had been declined, so she raised a complaint. PayPal 
looked at Ms Ms complaint, but they felt that they had acted in accordance with the terms of 
their buyer protection scheme and that Ms Ms claim didnt qualify for reimbursement. So, 
they didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Ms M wasnt satisfied with PayPals response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that Ms Ms buyer 
protection scheme claim met the criteria for it to have been successful, and so they also 
didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Ms M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Ms M might want to obtain a reimbursement for the cost of items that 
shes not satisfied with. However, its important to note that the scope of this complaint 
doesnt cover the issue of whether Ms M should receive such a reimbursement, but rather is 
focussed specifically on whether PayPal acted fairly in choosing to decline Ms Ms buyer 
protection scheme claim.
Ms M raised that claim on the basis that the items received were significantly not as 
described. Ms M has since confirmed to this service that the claim should probably have 
been raised on a different basis. But PayPal can only assess the claims that are raised to 
them on the basis on which they are raised. This means that in this instance my assessment 
of this complaint will be based on whether I feel PayPal acted fairly by declining the claim 
raised by Ms M which was raised on the basis that the items were significantly not as 
described.
PayPal have confirmed that it declined Ms Ms claim because the terms of their buyer 
protection scheme confirm that an item may not be considered as being significantly not as 
described if:
The item was properly described but did not meet your expectations.
PayPal contend that Ms Ms description of events provided in her claim  that the quality of 
the items received was poor although they looked good in the online pictures  does 
constitute an example of the items being as described but not meeting Ms Ms expectations. 
Its difficult to find fault with PayPals logic here, and so Im satisfied that it was fair and 
reasonable for PayPal to have declined Ms Ms buyer protection claim which she raised on 
the basis that the items were significantly not as described, and I say this because its 
evident that the items were as described but that Ms Ms expectations of the quality of the 
items wasnt met.
This isnt to say that I dont sympathise with Ms M here, and I do hope that shes able to 
resolve this matter to her satisfaction via alternative channels. But I dont feel that I can 
reasonably say that PayPal acted unfairly towards her by declining the reimbursement claim 
that she made.
Ms M has also advised this service that she later discovered that a number of the items of 
clothing shed purchased hadnt been delivered at all. However, this matter falls outside the 
remit of this complaint, which as explained previously, is concerned only with whether 
PayPal acted fairly in declining Ms Ms buyer protection scheme claim on the basis on which 
the claim was raised. If Ms M still hasnt received the items in question that matter would 
need to be raised as a separate issue through the appropriate channels.
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Ms M was wanting here, but it follows that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing PayPal to take any further action at this time. 
I trust that Ms M will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman