DRN-3861653
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked and closed his account without notice. The 
closure has impacted his credit score. He would like his adverse credit rating removed.
What happened
Mr K had a current account and a credit card with HSBC. HSBC carried out a review of his 
accounts. Following the review, they sent Mr K a letter dated 11 December 2020 giving him 
60 days notice of closure of his accounts. Accounts were due to close on 16 February 2021. 
Mr K had an overdraft facility which he had to clear in full because of the closure.
Because HSBC hadnt heard from him, HSBC put a block on Mr Ks account in 
February 2021.
Mr K says he didnt get the notice to close letter.
Mr K received a letter on 6 May 2021 demanding full payment of the overdraft of £2,574.52.
Mr K tried to make a payment on 17 May but was unable to.
Mr K complained, he said he hadnt received the closure letter and couldnt settle the 
account before the deadline. HSBC said they were entitled to close the account following 
their review. They were sorry Mr K hadnt been able to make a payment on 17 May and any 
payment he made would be backdated to that date. They said the credit balance from 
February to May was correctly reported.
Mr K was unhappy so complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint. She said HSBC were entitled to review and close the account. They werent 
responsible for Mr K not receiving his letter of closure. She thought the default on Mr Ks 
credit file had been correctly applied. HSBC were not unfair in applying the default on his 
credit record as Mr K hadnt paid the amount in full as was required but had paid off the 
money in instalments, 
Mr K disagreed he thought HSBC should have sent more correspondence to him. Mr K said 
he had cleared the whole balance and he wanted the default removed.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Ks account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied HSBC were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Ks account. 
As a result of the review of Mr Ks accounts HSBC decided to close the accounts.
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. I can see that 
HSBC wrote to Mr K on 11 December 2020 and let him know it was closing his account 
giving him 60 days notice. Mr K has said he didnt receive this letter. I can see that HSBC 
sent the letter to the address they had for Mr K and Mr K hadnt told them of any issues with 
his post. I dont think HSBC can be held liable for Mr K not getting the notice to close letter, 
so Im satisfied HSBC closed the accounts in line with the account terms. And gave Mr K 
adequate time to open another bank account and clear his overdraft.
Mr K says HSBC should have written to him more times to let him know of the account 
closure and of the need to pay off his overdraft. He says its unfair he only got a letter on 
6 May 2021 to inform him of the default and charges.  I appreciate Mr K is very frustrated 
and worried about the adverse information on his credit record. But I dont think HSBC have 
a responsibility to send more than one letter to a customer to inform them of their account 
closing.
Mr K has also said the bank should have sent him more letters before defaulting him. I 
appreciate that Mr K feels frustrated by the situation, but HSBC did nothing wrong when they 
required him to pay his outstanding overdraft due to the closure of the account. As Mr K 
wasnt able to pay the amount in full on demand, he would have had a default added to his 
credit file. So, I dont think that more letters would have changed the situation and prevented 
a default in this case.
Mr K has said he cleared the overdraft entire balance so he cant see why he has a default 
on his credit score. As the investigator has mentioned a default is registrable when a 
customer has failed to keep up with payments. HSBC made a demand for the overdraft as a 
result of the account closing. And as Ive said HSBC were within their rights to close the 
account. And the terms and conditions entitle them to request the payment of an overdraft if 
the account is to close. So, I dont think the bank has done anything wrong here. And I 
appreciate that although Mr K has now cleared the balance, he repaid the overdraft by 
23 May 2022, he didnt do so by the date the account was due to close. So, I dont think 
HSBC have done anything wrong when they disclosed this on his credit file.
Mr K attempted to make a payment on 17 May 2021, but he was unable to. HSBC have 
recognised that he was prevented from making a payment and have said they would credit 
any payment he made to 17 May. Had Mr K cleared the full amount outstanding in one 
payment, the amount would have been credited to his account on 17 May 2021 for credit 
reporting purposes. But as Mr K made a series of monthly payment starting in September 
2021 and finally cleared the outstanding overdraft balance on 23 May 2022, I dont think 
HSBC can be required to lift the default. As I said I dont think HSBC have acted unfairly 
here and I wont be asking them to remove the default.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman