DRN-3678949
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the support he received from Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) when he was in financial hardship. 
When I refer to what Mr M and BPF have said or did it should also be taken to include things 
said or done on their behalf.
What happened
In September 2017, Mr M entered into a conditional sale agreement with BPF to acquire a 
used car first registered in July 2014. The cash price of the car was around £16,270. The 
total amount payable was approximately £23,334. Mr M made an advance payment of 
around £500. There were 59 monthly payments due, each around £378, followed by a final 
payment of around £527. 
 
In 2018, Mr M missed some payments and accrued arrears, but he brought the account up 
to date by February 2020. From February 2020 Mr M made no payments towards his finance 
agreement. 
On 23 March 2020, the UK Government announced that UK would enter a lockdown due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic. 
In May 2020, BPF sent Mr M a Notice of Default (NOD) as at the time, his account was 
around £756 in arrears. 
Mr M made no more payment towards the agreement and in May 2021, he raised a 
complaint with BPF. He felt that he was discriminated against by them due to his accent, and 
he felt that he shouldve been entitled to a payment deferral, as he had been impacted by 
the Covid-19 pandemic, so he feels that BPF should have given him support available under 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Covid-19 guidance.
In June 2021, BPF responded to his complaint. In this correspondence they said that 
following a review of his account they do not believe that there was any discrimination by 
them as, they said, they have attempted to arrange a payment plan with Mr M for the 
arrears, however they did not receive a response from him by the deadline noted on the 
letters. They said the arears, at the time of the correspondence, were at around £5,671, 
which they said resulted in recoveries being notified and potential repossession of the car. 
They explained that to prevent this, Mr M would need to pay his entire balance. Alternatively, 
they said he could contact their collections team to discuss all his options in more depth.
Mr M was unhappy with BPFs response, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said 
that he has offered to make up the arrears by paying around £756 each month (equivalent of 
two monthly payments).
BPF, in their submissions to this service, said they dont accept Mr Ms offer of around £756 
a month, and they said that he had three options: 
1. Mr M to pay full arrears amount within six months.
2. Voluntary Termination (VT)  BPF said Mr M can return the car back to them as he 
has paid half of the total amount payable under the finance agreement. They said if 
Mr M chooses this option the car will be taken to an auction house to be sold. Whilst 
at the auction house the car will be inspected against the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association Guidelines (BVRLA) to determine if it has excessive wear and 
tear or damaged, based on the age and mileage of the car. Any damage outside 
general wear and tear will be payable by Mr M following the sale of the car. 
3. Voluntary Surrender (VS)  BPF said that if Mr M doesnt take the two options above, 
and once they serve another NOD and a Termination Notice, he will have the option 
to VS the car. They said this involves, at that time, Mr M agreeing for them to collect 
the car so that it can be sold at an auction house. After the car is sold Mr M will then 
be liable for the full outstanding balance on the finance agreement less the net sale 
proceeds which will be used to reduce the outstanding amount due. But BPF said 
that under this option he will not be liable for any additional charges such as court 
costs, however if Mr M chooses to do nothing, the car will be repossessed and he will 
be liable for the full remaining balance on the account and additional charges such as 
court costs.
Our investigator didnt think that BPF need to take any further action regarding Mr Ms 
finance agreement. He said that he hasnt seen any evidence that BPF ever received a 
request for a payment holiday under the FCAs Covid-19 guidance. But he said that BPF 
were still required to follow guidance for customers in financial difficulties that could be found 
in the FCAs  Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), and specifically CONC 7, on Arrears, 
default and recovery (including repossession). Taking that into consideration, he thought 
BPF treated Mr M fairly whilst he was in financial difficulty, as on a few occasions they tried 
to come to a payment arrangement with Mr M. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
After reviewing the case, I issued a provisional decision on 11 August 2022. In the 
provisional decision I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mr M acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. In summary, Mr Ms main complaint point is that he was not treated fairly by BPF when he 
found himself in financial hardship due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He feels that he was 
discriminated against by them due to his accent, and he feels that he shouldve been entitled 
to a payment deferral. 
So, Ive taken the above into consideration and Ive considered whether BPF have done 
enough to support Mr M, when he told them that he was experiencing financial hardship. 
When doing so, Ive also thought about the relevant rules and guidance at the time. The 
rules and guidance mentioned below referrer to customers and consumers, and I will be 
using these words interchangeably, but in this decision the words are to have the same 
meaning.  
 
On 24 April 2020 the FCA published additional guidance which came into effect on 27 April 
2020  Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. This 
guidance introduced temporary measures for consumers whose finances had been impacted 
by Covid-19, and it builds on Principle 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. In relation to the payment deferrals, the guidance states the 
following: Where a customer is already experiencing or reasonably expects to experience 
temporary payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and 
wishes to receive a payment deferral, a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral 
for three months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that its obviously not in the 
customers interests to do so. 
This guidance was further updated by the FCA in July 2020, and later in September 2020. 
Both updates build on the previous guidance that was issued, and stipulate that payment 
deferrals can be granted for a total period of six months. It is also important to note that 
within the mentioned guidance it states that: There is no expectation under this guidance 
that the firm makes enquiries with each customer to determine the circumstances 
surrounding a request for a payment deferral, or whether this is not in the customers 
interests. Firms can, however, choose to make the enquiries they consider necessary in 
order to satisfy themselves that the customer is eligible for support and to identify whether 
the customer would benefit from any additional support, provided that this does not delay the 
provision of timely support.
Ive considered that in March 2020, when Mr M started to be in financial difficulty and didnt 
make his payments, the above mentioned FCA guidance on Covid-19 had not yet been 
published or in force. Ive also taken into consideration that Mr M never did ask BPF at the 
time, or in the proceeding few months following, for a payment deferral. And Ive considered 
that before the additional Covid-19 guidance was in force, there was other guidance such as 
the FCA  Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), and in particular CONC 7, titled Arrears, 
default and recovery (including repossession), which say that firms should treat consumers 
in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. Treating 
consumers with forbearance would include such things as considering suspending, reducing, 
waiving, or cancelling any further interest or charges, allowing deferment of payment of 
arrears, and accepting token payments for a reasonable time period. And from what Ive 
seen, it looks like BPF was trying to help Mr M, by treating him with forbearance and due 
consideration. I say this because when Mr M had previous difficulties making payments 
towards the finance agreement, they offered to set up payment arrangements and allowed 
him to make overpayments to make up the arrears. But Ive gone on to consider whether 
they shouldve done more when he made contact in September 2020 and told them more 
about his situation. 
I understand that in September 2020 Mr M never asked BPF for a payment deferral, and I 
can see from the contact notes provided by them that from March 2020 onwards BPF did try 
to contact Mr M without success. So, I think at the time it was reasonable that when he missed two payments, they sent him arrears letter notifications and an NOD in May 2020. 
But I also considered that Mr M did make them aware that he was impacted by Covid-19 in 
September 2020, and considering his payment were up to date in February 2020, and I think 
most likely the FCA Covid-19 guidance was intended for customers in situations like the one 
Mr M found himself in. So, I think it wouldve been in the spirit of the FCA Covid-19 guidance 
for BPF to offer Mr M the payment deferral and backdate it to March 2020; the date he was 
impacted and missed his payment. 
Overall, I think BPF should give Mr M the benefit of the payment deferral as per the
FCA Covid-19 guidance. I think this should be applied for six months from March 2020 to
August 2020. Also, BPF should remove the adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit 
file during this period. Im aware that Mr Ms financial difficulties lasted longer than six 
months and that he hasnt made any payments towards the finance agreement since 
February 2020, so I know that a large number of arrears have accrued. It is only fair that Mr 
M is responsible for those. So, Im not asking BPF to drastically change the options that 
were available to him when they gave our service their submission  those being that:
1. Mr M pays full arrears within six months. 
But, as I think Mr M shouldve been given a six-month payment deferral, I think it is 
reasonable that the arrears should only be classed as missed payments from September 
2020 onwards. And, considering that in this scenario Mr Ms arrears would be less, 
naturally BPF would be able to offer more generous terms than those above, if it now 
wanted.
2. Voluntary Termination (VT)  Mr M can return the car back to BPF as he has paid 
half of the total amount payable under the finance agreement. 
I know Mr M has mentioned that currently the car has some damage on it, so I think it 
would be reasonable for BPF to give Mr M 30 days after the final decision is issued to 
get the car fixed,  provided he accepts the final decision. Mr M could choose not to fix the 
damage, but he has to remember that if he chooses the VT option, the car should be 
taken to an auction house to be sold, and it will be fair and reasonable for BPF to have 
the car inspected and charge Mr M for any excessive wear and tear or damage, based 
on the age and mileage of the car.
It is important to note that under this option the proceeds of the sale would remain with 
BPF, and are not returned to the Mr M. At the same time, Mr M is not liable for any 
shortfall BPF believes its suffered from the sale. Nor is Mr M entitled to any sums the car 
achieves over and above the expected sale value. 
Also, under this option it is only fair, as Mr M had possession and use of the car, that he 
will owe the arrears and any other sums, such as monthly payments due before 
termination. If Mr M can't afford to pay that straightaway, then I'd expect BPF to offer a 
suitable repayment plan for him. 
3. Voluntary Surrender (VS)  if Mr M doesnt take the two options above, BPF will be 
able to serve another NOD and a Termination Notice, at which point Mr M will have 
the option to VS the car.
I think what BPF proposed in their submissions it is reasonable  that being that, as long 
as Mr M agrees for them to collect the car, it can be sold at an auction house. After the 
car is sold, Mr M would then be liable for the full outstanding balance on the finance 
agreement, less the net sale proceeds which will be used to reduce the outstanding 
amount due. But BPF said that under this option he will not be liable for any additional charges, such as court costs. However, if Mr M chooses to do nothing, the car will be 
repossessed and he will be liable for the full remaining balance on the account and 
additional charges, such as court costs. Just as above, I think if Mr M can't afford to pay 
that straightaway, then I'd expect BPF to offer a suitable repayment plan for him.
I thought about what should happen if Mr M doesnt accept one of the above options, or if he 
decides to give the car back. Meaning that if BPF grant him the six months deferral, this 
could end up him having a default on his credit file registered at a later date, so in effect will 
put Mr M in a worse position. So, I think if Mr M doesnt agree to one of the options above, 
this would mean that most likely he still wouldve defaulted, but at a later date, once the six 
months payment deferral runs its course. I say this, because he has not made any 
payments towards the finance agreement since February 2020. The six-months payment 
deferral Im proposing, wouldve ended in August 2020 and, most likely, two months later, in 
late September early October, BPF wouldve registered a default on his credit file. So, I think 
if Mr M doesnt accept one of the above options, it would be fair to leave the default on his 
credit file as it is now.
Also, Mr M said that BPF discriminated against him when deciding not to uphold his 
complaint due to his race. So, I think it is important for me to explain that its not my role to 
say whether BPF have breached the Equality Act 2010 (2010 Act). This is because that is a 
matter for the courts to decide, not for our service. Ive taken the 2010 Act into account when 
deciding this complaint, as it is relevant law, but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based 
on what is fair and reasonable considering the circumstances of this case. If Mr M thinks that 
BPF breached the 2010 Act, then he will need to go to court. I know that Mr M feels that his 
complaint has not been upheld by BPF because he feels they have treated him 
differently/unfairly when compared to other customers. But I think most likely their decision 
was based on the information he provided BPF at the time and the contact they had with 
him. So, Ive not been given any evidence to show that their actions have been unfair in that 
way.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays
Partner Finance should:
-Allow Mr M to keep the car, if he brings the account back up to date by paying all 
arrears within the six months, or allow him to voluntarily terminate, or voluntarily 
surrender, the car.
-Treat the missed payments from March 2020 to August 2020 as a six-months 
payment deferral, and remove the adverse information from Mr Ms credit file for 
those months. If Mr M terminates the agreement or surrenders the car, I think it is 
reasonable, in the circumstances of this complaint, that BPF should register the 
default on his credit file with the date of May 2020. 
If Mr M is unable to pay all the arrears and bring the agreement back up-to-date within six 
months of acceptance of a final decision, or come to another sustainable arrangement with 
BPF, and provided that BPF start recovery proceedings, I would expect it to liaise with Mr M 
about the outstanding balance and come to an arrangement with him to sustainably repay 
the debt. 
BPF should also remember that unless Mr M hands the car back voluntarily, they would 
need a court order to repossess the car, as he paid over a third towards the finance 
agreement.I asked both parties to provide me with any additional comments or information they would 
like me to consider by 25 August 2022. 
Mr M responded and said that he has nothing further to add.  
BPF responded, and I will address their points below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following my provisional decision, BPF responded and said that Mr M has not made any 
payments towards the account since February 2020 or shown any indication of willingness to 
pay. So, they said that they feel that he should bring the account up to date within 28 days if 
he wishes to keep the car. They said that the arrears, as of 24 August 2022, were around 
£10,964. They also said that if Mr M would like to VT the car, they would require him to let 
them know within 28 days too. And they reminded our service that if he wishes to VT, he 
may be liable for additional charges i.e. wear and tear and collection fees, as per the terms 
and conditions of the agreement. 
Ive taken the above into consideration, but I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask 
Mr M to bring the account up to date within 28 days instead of the six months previously 
offered by BPF. I understand that BPF have said that Mr M has not made any payments 
towards the account since February 2020 or shown any indication of willingness to pay, but 
as I mentioned in my provisional decision, I considered that Mr M did make BPF aware that 
he was impacted by Covid-19 in September 2020, and considering his payments were up to 
date in February 2020, I think it wouldve been in the spirit of the FCA Covid-19 guidance for 
BPF to offer Mr M a payment deferral and backdate it to March 2020. So, I think had this 
been done by BPF, his next payment wouldve only been due after August 2020. And even 
though Mr Ms financial difficulties lasted longer than six months, he wouldve been in a 
better position, as a smaller number of arrears wouldve accrued had he been given the 
payment deferral.
Ive also taken into consideration that the relationship most likely wouldve been less broken 
down between the parties, had Mr M been given the payment deferral at the earlier time. I 
say this because Mr M was very unhappy he was not offered a payment deferral, so I think 
had he been offered one, its most likely he wouldve been more inclined and motivated to 
work with BPF to come to an agreement. Also, I dont agree with BPF that he didnt show 
any indication of willingness to pay, because Mr M had offered to make up the arrears by 
paying around £756 each month (equivalent of two monthly payments). But BPF, in their 
submissions to this service, said they didnt accept Mr Ms offer of around £756 a month, and 
that is when they said that one of his options was to pay full arrears amount within six 
months. So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to now retract this offer, taking all of 
the circumstances into account, as well as taking into account that 28 days is a very short 
period for Mr M to now make arrangements to make up for such a significant deficit to be 
paid back. 
Regarding treating the missed payments from March 2020 to August 2020 as a six-months 
payment deferral, BPF said that they agree to update Mr Ms credit file. But they said that if 
Mr M terminates the agreement, they feel that the default should be recorded in November 
2020. So, Ive considered this, and I think, had Mr M been given the payment deferral, his 
next payment wouldve been due in September 2020. And, if he was unable to make his 
payments by the time BPF would have sent him the arrears and default letters at that time, I think most likely they wouldve applied a default a couple of months after that. So, I dont 
think BPFs proposal to apply the default in November 2020 is unreasonable.  
Overall, I still think it is fair and reasonable that Mr Ms complaint is resolved as per the 
details mentioned in my provisional decision. The only difference being that if Mr M doesnt 
accept one of the options mentioned in my provisional decision and the agreement ends up 
being terminated, BPFs proposal to apply the default in November 2020 is not 
unreasonable.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I require Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to:
- Allow Mr M to keep the car, if he brings the account back up to date by paying all 
arrears within the six months, or allow him to voluntarily terminate, or voluntarily 
surrender, the car.
- Treat the missed payments from March 2020 to August 2020 as a six-months 
payment deferral, and to remove the adverse information from Mr Ms credit file for 
those months. If Mr M terminates the agreement or surrenders the car, I dont think it 
is unreasonable for BPF to register the default on his credit file with the date of 
November 2020. 
If Mr M is unable to pay all the arrears and bring the agreement back up-to-date within six 
months of acceptance of this final decision, or come to another sustainable arrangement 
with BPF, and provided that BPF start the recovery proceedings, I would expect them to 
liaise with Mr M about the outstanding balance, and to come to an arrangement with him to 
sustainably repay the debt. 
BPF should also remember that unless Mr M hands the car back voluntarily, they would 
need a court order to repossess the car, as he paid over a third towards the finance 
agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman