DRN-4067706
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the advice he received from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) to invest 
into the Options Equity Fund and the compensation to put the matter right. 
Mr B is represented in bringing his complaint by a third party but for ease of reference I shall 
refer to Mr B in my decision.
What happened
In January 1991 Mr B was advised by Lloyds to invest £50 per month into Lloyds Options 
Plan  a whole of life plan  and the underlying Equity Fund. He surrendered the investment 
in February 2001 and received £7,459.00.
In 2019 Mr B complained to Lloyds about the advice he had been given. In response it 
agreed that it hadnt given advice that was appropriate for Mr B as a first-time investor and a 
lower risk investment would have been more suitable than the Equity Fund.
Lloyds found that Mr B hadnt been financially disadvantaged because of the poor advice 
and therefore no compensation was due to him. Lloyds had compared the performance of 
Mr Bs medium risk Equity Fund with the lower risk Managed Fund which showed that the 
medium risk Equity Fund had performed better.
Mr B doesnt agree. He wants the redress to be calculated against the performance of a mix 
of fixed rate bonds and the WMA Total Return Index. Mr B doesnt think Lloyds has been 
able to evidence that he would have invested in the Managed Fund and it is an attempt to 
refuse to pay compensation. 
Unhappy with the outcome, Mr B brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our 
investigator who considered the complaint didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything more. 
He said;
He concluded that the whole of life plan wasnt unsuitable for Mr B taking into 
account his circumstances and objectives.
While the whole of life plan might have been suitable, Lloyds had already agreed that 
a more suitable underlying investment would have been lower risk than the fund 
invested into. 
By investing In the Option Plan there were two different types of funds available  
one being of a lower risk, the Managed Fund and the other being of a medium risk, 
the Equity Fund. So, Lloyds based its redress on the difference between the 
performance of the two funds available within the Options Fund. Lloyds calculations 
show that Mr B had benefited by £1,259.45 by being invested in the Equity Fund.
The investigator concluded that he would only recommend an alternative redress 
method if the whole of life plan was unsuitable for Mr B. As it wasnt, he didnt think 
redress should be based on an alternative method.
Mr B disagreed with the investigator. He said; 
at the time of the sale there was a requirement to provide best advice which he 
didnt believe occurred in this case.
If it was accepted that he needed whole of life cover that in itself didnt limit the 
advice to being the Options Funds which only offered two underlying funds.
Mr B could have been sold many different investments as alternatives. He gave 
examples of other types of investment which would have offered more flexibility.
The investment left him hampered with investment growth and inflexible life cover 
with additional costs.
Mr B couldnt accept the investigators view and asked for the complaint to be considered 
further so it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. 
There is little documentation available from the time of the sale  which I dont find unusual  
but after reviewing the paperwork that Lloyds has been able to provide from the point of sale, 
like the investor, I dont find the whole of life policy  the Options Plan - was unsuitable for 
Mr B. Ill explain why.
Lloyds has been able to provide the Confidential Financial Appraisal document completed at 
the time of the sale. It records that Mr B was 49 years of age, was married with two children 
aged ten and 15. His net monthly income was £1,064 and he had been with his then current 
employer for over 30 years. He had six years left on his mortgage. Jointly with his wife, they 
had a surplus monthly income of £814. He had no foreseeable changes in his financial 
circumstances.
The Personal Illustration records that the objective of the investment was To build some 
capital by regular disciplined savings, gaining maximum growth & tax advantages to perhaps 
give your children a good start in life, perhaps for their education or wedding expenses. 
Under the summary of needs section, it says You have just had a substantial rise, 1 of 2 
things will happen, either you save some or you spend it. You have 2 children and each will 
in turn need your help financially either for weddings or education or just to give them a good 
start in life. By starting to save now you can make provision for these needs. As a result, the 
Options Fund with a £50 monthly premium was recommended and accepted. 
While I accept there is limited information for me to consider, taking the above into account, I 
dont find that the whole of life plan was wrong for Mr B. I say this because he was married 
with two dependents and a mortgage  all of which no doubt he would have wanted to 
financially protect if he were to die. And it was identified at the time of the sale that his 
priority was to save for his childrens future. The Plan had a small element of life cover, but 
Im satisfied its main purpose was for savings for the benefit of Mr Bs children. The cost of 
the life cover was small.
While the documents from the time of the sale arent very detailed, I think they suggest 
Lloyds had a reasonable understanding of Mr Bs financial circumstances and objectives 
when making the recommendation. Mr B was a novice investor and his financial circumstances werent complicated. However, I cant see that Mr Bs attitude to risk was 
assessed. And I think its reasonable to assume that without any investment experience     
Mr B would have been totally reliant upon the advice given to him by Lloyds. 
Lloyds has told us that at the time of the sale its sales process involved the adviser going 
through a copy of the Your Guide to TSB Funds document and using that to explain the 
various levels of risk at which any investment could be made. 
Lloyds has said the fund guide would have been used to help compare the differences 
between the two funds that were available  the Managed Fund which was considered low 
and the Equity Fund which was considered to be medium risk. 
Its difficult to know what was discussed at the time of the sale about what level of risk was 
right for Mr B to be exposed to. But after Mr B complained, Lloyds has subsequently 
recognised that it would have been more suitable for him to have invested in a lower risk 
fund as the evidence suggested that he was a first-time investor. 
While I accept its not always necessarily the case that a first-time investor wants to take a 
low risk approach, in this case I dont disagree with Lloyds conclusion that a lower risk 
approach would have been more in line with Mr Bs investment experience and objectives. 
While its clear from the available paperwork that Mr B did have some limited funds in 
bank/building society accounts, had recently received a good pay rise and his excess 
income over outgoings on a monthly basis was healthy, I dont think his financial 
circumstances could have absorbed much capital loss if that had occurred. And his primary 
reason for the investment was for saving for his childrens future with the added protection of 
the benefit of the plan itself. So, I think Lloyds reached the correct conclusion when 
considering Mr Bs complaint.  
So, I have gone onto consider the redress method and whether the method of redress made 
by Lloyds is the correct one in the particular individual circumstances of this complaint.
In circumstances such as these I would usually say that there were many different ways that 
Mr B could have invested which couldnt be known for sure and it would be appropriate to 
use a benchmark to assess the type of return Mr B would have been able to achieve with 
suitable advice. And that is the approach that Mr B is seeking.
But in this case, I have found that the overall advice  for Mr B to invest into the whole of life 
plan  wasnt wrong for him. And that being the case, I dont think its unreasonable to 
consider what other options Lloyds would have offered him at the time if his attitude to risk 
had been established as being lower risk.
As part of the Options Plan, Lloyds has told us there were only two funds available for 
investment, the Equity Fund, and the Managed Fund. So bearing in mind I dont disagree 
that the whole of life plan itself wasnt wrong for Mr B in the first instance, then it follows that 
I would expect Lloyds to look at the performance of a more suitable Fund for Mr B but within 
the parameters of the options available for the whole of life plan he was investing into. So, 
the lower risk alternative of the two was the Managed Fund the performance of which Lloyds 
has used as its method of redress. I dont find this to be an unreasonable method.
The outcome of the calculation is that Mr B has benefited from this unsuitable investment. 
When we uphold a complaint, we look to put the complainant back in the financial position 
they would have been but for the error caused by the business. As a result of Lloyds 
recommendation that Mr B invest into the Equity Fund rather than the Managed Fund, he is 
in a better financial position than he would otherwise have been, so Im satisfied he isnt due 
any compensation. Taking all of the above into account, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint and dont find that 
Lloyds has to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman