DRN-4369075
The complaint
Mrs Ss complaint is about the service provided by Aviva Insurance Limited when dealing 
with a claim under her central heating insurance policy. 
Mrs S is represented in this complaint by Mr K. Whenever I refer to Mrs S in this decision, it 
should be read as including anything done or said on her behalf by Mr K.
What happened
Mrs S held a central heating insurance policy with Aviva. The insured property is rented and 
Mr K told us he is the landlord and Mrs S is his tenant. However, the complaint form also 
says Mr K is her husband. 
Mrs S contacted Aviva on 22 February 2023, as there was a leak from the boiler. Aviva 
attended on 23 February 2023 and advised that the boiler was beyond economic repair. The 
policy provides for the cost of the new boiler in such circumstances and said she would only 
have to pay the installation costs. The new boiler was booked to be put in on 2 October 
2023. However, on 1 March 2023, Mr K called to cancel the appointment and said Mrs S had 
already had the boiler replaced as it was taking too long. 
Mr K said he spent over 20 hours on the phone to Aviva imploring it to get the new boiler 
installed urgently. Mrs S had young children and a new baby and having no heating or hot 
water in extremely cold weather caused considerable hardship. Mr K asked for the cost of 
the new boiler less what Mrs S would have had to pay Aviva for the installation (around 
£1,400) which he says he deducted from her rent and £1,000 compensation for Mrs S to 
regain the her trust.
Aviva says it dealt with the matter in a reasonable time. The first appointment was on 23 
February 2023 and the boiler replacement was booked to be done on 2 March 2023, which 
was a week. Aviva acknowledges there was a delay between 24 and 28 February 2023 but 
says this was because it was waiting for Mrs S to confirm the quote was accepted and pay 
the deposit. The deposit was paid on 28 February 2023 and the appointment made for 2 
March 2023 to install the new boiler. Aviva said there is no cash equivalent provided under 
the policy, if the policyholder decides to arrange the installation themselves and so did not 
agree to make any payment. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not think Aviva had acted 
unreasonably and did not recommend that it do anything further. 
Mr K said that Mrs S did not accept the Investigators assessment. He said the information 
provided by Aviva was false and incorrect.  
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ss policy with Aviva provided for a replacement boiler as hers was beyond economic 
repair. The policy says
The new boiler make and model will be chosen by us and will provide a suitable 
level of heating and hot water for your property. It will match your existing boiler type 
(e.g. a combination boiler will be replaced with a combination boiler). Any heating 
system or boiler upgrade costs will be charged for. There is no cash alternative to the 
replacement offered.
Mrs S did not go ahead with installation of the new boiler under the policy and the terms are 
clear that Aviva will not pay any cash alternative in the event a policyholder makes their own 
arrangements. I do not therefore consider there is any cover under the policy for the costs 
incurred by Mrs S for the new boiler. 
Mr K has said that there was delay on Avivas part and Mrs S could not wait any longer for it 
to install the new boiler. I have therefore considered whether Aviva should pay towards the 
costs Mrs S incurred on a fair and reasonable basis due to delay on its part. 
I can only consider and make an award that recognises the impact of any wrongdoing by a 
financial business on an eligible complainant. In this instance, the eligible complainant is    
Mrs S. I cannot therefore consider any impact on Mr K personally, either in relation to any 
rent reduction he says he gave Mrs S to reflect the cost of the boiler, or compensation for his 
time in dealing with the issue. 
I understand there were young children living at the property and so the boiler needed to be 
replaced as soon as possible. It would have been a week in total for Aviva to have replaced 
the boiler. It says that it waited for four days for Mrs S to agree the quote and pay the deposit 
and it made the appointment for two days after she paid the deposit. Mr K then cancelled the 
appointment the day after it was made and the day before it was due to take place. Mr K 
says that Aviva has provided false information but I have not seen any evidence that what 
Aviva has said about this is not correct. It seems to me likely that if the quote had been 
agreed and the deposit paid sooner, the boiler would have been fitted within around 3 days 
of the initial call out, which does not seem unreasonable to me. 
Mr K also says he spent 20 hours on the phone chasing up Aviva. Avivas records show a 
few phone calls from Mr K but there is no evidence of either him or Mrs S having to chase 
Aviva repeatedly.
Having considered everything provided to me, I do not think there is any convincing 
evidence that Aviva caused unnecessary or avoidable delays in arranging the new boiler. I 
do not therefore consider that it needs to make any payment to Mrs S for the cost of the 
boiler, or in compensation.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthyOmbudsman