DRN-3855802
The complaint
Mr M complains British Gas Insurance Limited failed to properly service his boiler under his 
HomeCare insurance policy, resulting in it requiring replacement. 
What happened
In 2022, Mr M says a British Gas engineer carried out an annual service and recommended 
his boiler be replaced due to corrosion. Mr M says this was news to him, as during previous 
visits, there was no mention of corrosion and the boiler was said to be in working order. He 
thinks corrosion occurred as the result of British Gas failing to maintain the boiler and 
missing a previous leak, so they should pay to replace it. 
British Gas say Mr Ms boiler was over ten years old, so the policy didnt entitle him to a 
replacement boiler. They say corrosion could have happened at any time due to several 
reasons, and the job history notes left by engineers dont support they failed to service it 
correctly. They removed the boiler from cover after recommending it be replaced and 
refunded the premiums Mr M paid at renewal. 
Mr M says he and his partner are retired, have underlying health conditions, and couldnt 
afford a new boiler. He approached our Service for an impartial review, but our investigator 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She wasnt persuaded British Gas failed to carry 
out annual services correctly, missed a leak, or caused corrosion to occur. She also didnt 
think Mr M was entitled to a replacement boiler under the policy. 
Mr M responded to say private engineers inspected the boiler and said British Gas failed to 
maintain it which led to corrosion occurring. Mr M said, however, the engineers didnt provide 
a report to support this as they didnt want to become involved in the matter. He also 
provided photos of the corrosion. Our investigator reviewed Mr Ms further comments and 
photos but didnt change her opinion on the matter. So, the case was passed to me to have 
our Services final say. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says an annual service will be carried out each year to ensure a boiler is working 
safely. It also says British Gas will replace a boiler if they cannot repair it  provided a boiler 
is less than seven years old, or between seven and ten years old, was installed by them and 
covered under a warranty or HomeCare product. Mr M says his boiler was installed in 2010, 
so he wasnt entitled under the policy to a replacement. Mr M, however, says British Gas 
should pay to replace his boiler as they failed to maintain it, missed a leak having reported 
the pressure was dropping to them, and caused corrosion to occur. 
Ive reviewed job history notes completed by engineers following visits. In 2015, the notes 
suggest parts were required as the condense pipe had a hole in it causing water to leak into 
the boiler  leaving it inoperable. Further parts were replaced during this period and later, in 
2019 and 2021, its suggested a powerflush was recommended, as the engineer suspected 
sludge was present. 
The notes suggest engineers during previous visits identified and resolved issues  and 
whilst there isnt anything to suggest corrosion was present prior to 2022, there also isnt 
anything to suggest engineers failed to identify and resolve issues found during these visits. 
So, although Mr M says British Gas failed to maintain his boiler, Im not satisfied the job 
history notes support this. 
Mr M also says British Gas missed a leak which resulted in corrosion occurring and his boiler 
needing replacement. He says private engineers inspected the boiler and said, broadly, 
corrosion was due to British Gas failing to maintain it. Mr M, however, hasnt provided 
evidence to support this  such as an independent engineers report that states where the 
leak he alleges British Gas missed was coming from, when it started, and why British Gas 
should have identified and resolved it sooner. In the absence of this, Im unable to agree it 
would be fair and reasonable to conclude British Gas failed to properly service his boiler 
based on the job history notes, or missed a leak that later resulted in an engineer 
recommending it be replaced. 
It's clear based on photos Mr M provided corrosion is present  that isnt disputed. British 
Gas referred these to their technical team who said, broadly, corrosion could have been 
caused by aggressive system water, and advice was given in 2019 for a powerflush to be 
carried out. They also say whilst they couldnt determine how long the rust had been there or 
taken this form, in severe cases with aggressive water it can be as little as six months. I note 
there was a period of roughly nine months between the 2021 visit where the engineer 
recommended Mr M carried out a powerflush, to an engineer in 2022 recommending the 
boiler be replaced. 
Im aware Mr M thinks the recommendation of a powerflush wasnt related to the boiler 
corrosion issue. However, a powerflush is generally recommended where a build-up of 
sludge, debris and rust is suspected to have accumulated within a central heating system. 
And if not carried out, can lead to corrosion, amongst other things. The claim notes suggest 
Mr M didnt go ahead with the recommendations in 2019 or 2021 to have a powerflush 
carried out.  
I accept being informed the boiler was in bad condition as the result of corrosion would have 
been concerning for Mr M. I say this because the job history notes suggest the 2022 visit 
was the first time Mr M was informed of this. And having had his boiler serviced in the years 
prior by British Gas, I understand why he thinks they didnt carry out their responsibilities or 
missed something which caused it to later need replacing. But I havent been persuaded on 
balance, based on what Ive seen, theres evidence to support this. 
British Gas removed Mr Ms boiler from cover after it was recommended to be replaced and 
refunded the premiums he paid at renewal for that period which I think was reasonable. 
Because Im not persuaded British Gas made an error or treated Mr M unfairly here, I wont 
be directing them to do anything. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve his dispute with British Gas  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman