DRN-4357420
The complaint
Ms D complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank was 
irresponsible in its lending to her
What happened
Ms D applied for a M&S Bank credit card in 2005. In June 2005 her account was opened 
with a credit limit of £7,000. Ms Ds credit limit was increased to £8,000 in December 2006. 
Ms D says that she was unemployed when the credit card was provided, and limit increase 
applied. She says she had been receiving benefits since 2004 and was using the new 
lending to pay off other debts.
M&S Bank said that given the time that had passed it didnt still have the details of the 
checks undertaken before the credit card was provided and limit increase applied. It said that 
when the account was opened Ms D used it in line with expectations and regular repayments 
were received until September 2009. From August 2009 to September Ms D made a large 
number of transactions which took the account over its credit limit following which the 
account went into arrears. M&S Bank said Ms D contacted it in January 2010 about her 
financial difficulties and a payment plan was set up. Ms Ds account was defaulted in July 
2010 and transferred to a debt collection company in January 2021.
M&S Bank explained that it refunded Ms D over £1,600 of interest and charges that were 
applied to her account after she had informed it of her financial difficulties.
Ms D wasnt satisfied that M&S Bank had done enough in response to her complaint and 
she referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. She accepted that given the time that had 
passed since the account was provided and credit limit increased that M&S Bank no longer 
held details of the search results from the time. However, she said based on other 
information provided by Ms D from around the time of the credit limit increase she didnt 
think that this should have been considered affordable. Therefore, she upheld this complaint 
in regard to the December 2006 credit limit increase.
M&S Bank didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that the Office of Fair Tradings 
irresponsible lending guidance did not exist at the time. That said it confirmed that when 
Ms D applied for the credit card an affordability assessment was undertaken which included 
considering Ms Ds income and undertaking a credit reference agency check. It said Ms Ds 
application was reviewed by its underwriters which assessed this based on the rules relevant 
at the time. It said that in relation to removing any adverse data, Ms Ds default expired in 
July 2016.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings are set out below.
Ms D applied for a credit card in 2005. I note Ms Ds comments that she wasnt employed at 
the time and was receiving benefits, but this isnt a reason on its own to say the lending 
shouldnt have been provided. Depending on the nature of the benefits, these can be 
considered as part of a customers income when assessing affordability.
Given the time that has passed I do not find it unreasonable that M&S Bank isnt able to 
provide the details of the checks it undertook when Ms D applied for the credit card account. 
It has said that it considered Ms Ds income at the time and that a credit check was 
undertaken. I also note that the application was referred to M&S Banks underwriters for 
consideration. I find these checks reasonable. But without seeing the outcome of these 
checks I cannot say whether M&S Bank acted reasonably by considering the credit card with 
a credit limit of £7,000 as affordable. That said, I also havent seen anything to show that the 
lending wasnt affordable to Ms D and noting that Ms D didnt start to use the credit card 
account until May 2006, I do not find this suggests she was reliant on the credit at the time it 
was provided or that she needed this credit to repay other debts.
Therefore, on balance, based on the information provided I do not find I can say that M&S 
Bank acted irresponsibly by providing Ms D with a credit card account with a £7,000 credit 
limit in June 2005.
In December 2006, Ms Ds credit limit was increased by £1,000 to £8,000. M&S Bank hasnt 
been able to confirm whether this was requested by Ms D or was automatically applied to 
her account. Ms D has said she didnt request this increase and I find it reasonable to accept 
this.
M&S Bank hasnt provided any details of the checks it undertook before the credit limit was 
increased and given the time that has passed, I do not find this surprising or unreasonable. I 
note its comment about the OFT regulations not being in place at the time, and I have had 
this in mind in my decision. That said, I think it would still have been reasonable for M&S 
Bank to have checked that Ms D wasnt struggling financially before any further lending was 
provided and that it could reasonably expect the new lending to be affordable for her.
Given when the credit limit happened, I cannot say that M&S Bank was required to 
undertake a credit check. But I would expect it to have considered the information available 
to it to understand whether it was reasonable for the limit to be increased. Ms D had opened 
her account over a year before the credit limit increase and so M&S Bank had data available 
to it about how Ms D was managing her account. M&S Bank has said that Ms D didnt start 
to use the account until she requested a balance transfer in May 2006. She then maintained 
her repayments until September 2009. The account balance was within the credit limit and 
Ms D had been reducing the balance from the date of the balance transfer until the credit 
limit increase such that her balance just prior to the limit increase was around £2,780. Ms D 
wasnt using the credit card at this time for retail spending. Therefore, having considered 
Ms Ds management of the account I do not find this should have raised any concerns that 
she might be struggling financially.
While I cant say that a credit check had to be undertaken, I have considered whether, if this 
had happened it would raise any serious concerns about how Ms D was managing her 
finances. I have looked at the statements and other information Ms D has provided and can 
see that Ms D had an overdraft limit of £2,000 on her current account and another credit 
card with a £6,000 credit limit. In the months immediately following the credit limit increase 
her bank statements show she was also making payments towards another credit card 
provider and also another financial institution.
While Ms D did have other debts, based on the statements I have seen it seems that Ms D 
was maintaining her accounts within their limits, and I have nothing to suggest that she wasnt maintaining her payments at the time. Therefore, it is likely that a credit check 
wouldnt have identified any serious concerns and I have nothing to show it would have 
revealed any adverse information being recorded about Ms Ds commitments. Given this, 
along with Ms Ds account management, I do not find I have enough evidence to say that 
M&S Bank should have identified that the credit limit increase of £1,000 was irresponsible.
While I understand that this isnt the outcome Ms D wants, I have considered the information 
available to M&S Bank at the time of the credit limit increase and what it would have been 
reasonable to have checked and the likely outcome of this and I do not find I have enough to 
uphold this complaint.
Ms D didnt agree with my provisional decision. She said that she was in a lot of debt at the 
time and that M&S Bank hadnt provided any evidence of the affordability checks it 
undertook. She said her debts were more than she was receiving in benefits. 
M&S Bank confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As has been explained, our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending is set out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when 
considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I can understand why Ms D was disappointed with my provisional decision but as I have 
explained given the time that has passed it isnt surprising or unreasonable that M&S Bank 
no longer has details of the checks it carried out when Ms D applied for a credit card. While I 
note the comment it made in regard to the application being referred to its underwriting team 
and that Ms Ds income was considered and a credit check carryout without the outcome, I 
cannot say whether it was reasonable that M&S Bank considered a credit limit of £7,000 to 
be affordable. That said, as I have nothing to show the lending wasnt affordable and noting 
when Ms D started to use the credit card, I do not find I have enough to say that the lending 
was irresponsible.
Ms Ds credit limit was increased in December 2006. Again, given the time that this 
happened I do not find it surprising or unreasonable that M&S Bank no longer has the details 
of the checks it carried out. But as I set out in my provisional decision, having looked at the 
information that was available to M&S Bank  being the account management - I do not find 
that this raised that she might be struggling financially. While Ms D did have other debts, she 
appeared to be managing these and so I cannot say that a credit check at that time would 
have raised concerns.
While I understand Ms Ds disappointment with my decision, based on what I have seen I do 
not find I have enough to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 Jane Archer
Ombudsman