DRN-3469147
Complaint
Mr N says that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as George Banco.com) unfairly failed to 
set up a repayment plan with him and instead went to his guarantor for payment. Hes also 
complained about being sent communication offering further loans after his arrears.
Background
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ns concerns. She didnt think that George Banco 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr N unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr N disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Its clear that Mr N got in contact with George Banco as far back as November 2015 to 
explain that he was having difficulty making the payments to his loan. And, in these 
circumstances, I would expect a lender to exercise forbearance and due consideration in line 
with its regulatory obligations. 
George Banco has supplied its contact history between it and Mr N in the period he was a 
customer. These records show that there were a number of attempts to set up payment 
arrangements for Mr N. Some of these were temporary and others were longer-term. But   
Mr N wasnt able to keep to them. And when this happened, George Banco got in contact 
with Mr Ns guarantor to update them about the situation and ask if they wished to make 
payment. Mr N may consider this to be unfair. But that is the nature of the agreement he 
entered into. And George Banco had to also be mindful of the obligations it had to Mr Ns 
guarantor. 
I think that it would have been unfair for George Banco not to have kept Mr Ns guarantor 
updated on the status of the account, when it had agreed to do so, and instead attempted to 
contact them only after significant arrears had built up. Furthermore, if Mr Ns guarantor is 
unhappy at receiving these communications and being asked to make payment this is a 
matter that they will need to contact George Banco about as Mr N is ineligible to complain 
about this matter.
Overall, Im satisfied that the available evidence shows that George Banco took reasonable 
steps to arrange payment plans with Mr N. So Im satisfied that it attempted to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration in line with its regulatory obligations. And as George 
Banco wasnt able to resolve the arrears with Mr N, Im satisfied that it wasnt unreasonable 
for it to contact Mr Ns guarantor as per the terms and conditions of the agreements it 
entered into with Mr N and his guarantor. So I dont think that George Banco acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in relation to this matter. 
I now turn to the communications Mr N received. 
Mr N is unhappy that George Banco kept notifying him that he was eligible for top up loans 
despite his previous arrears. Ive thought about what Mr N has said and I can see that Mr N 
was sent marketing materials offering further loans. 
I do think that it is concerning that George Banco wrote to Mr N offering further credit in 
circumstances where hed clearly had previous difficulties repaying this loan. I suspect that 
George Banco will argue that this was a generic marketing material which wont have taken 
into account how Mr Ns existing loan was or wasnt being repaid  even though it has 
obligations regarding the communication of financial promotions to customers.
That said, I cant see that Mr N ever told George Banco that he no longer wished to receive 
such marketing communications and wanted to be taken off its mailing lists. Furthermore, 
Ive not seen anything to indicate that Mr N acted on these communications and actually 
took out further borrowing from George Banco either. So while I do have concerns about 
George Bancos marketing in this case, I dont think that Mr N lost out and Im not upholding 
this part of the complaint either.   
Overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ns 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr N. But I hope that hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman