DRN-1543881
The complaint
Ms W complains as a director of J, a limited company about Cater Allen Limiteds timescales 
for transferring payments. 
What happened
Ms W complained to Cater Allen that it was taking too long for payments to be transferred 
from her business account into an account she held with another bank. She said this meant 
she wasnt able to pay her bills on time.
In response Cater Allen said it was not currently part of the Faster Payment Scheme and so 
payments were received the working day after they were processed. It told Ms W that it was 
planning to introduce Faster Payments where payments would typically be processed within 
two hours, subject to regulatory checks. 
It said it provided a same day transfer service via CHAPS payments for a £25 charge. It 
advised of its timescales every time a payment was made, and these were also outlined in 
its terms and conditions.
Ms W brought the complaint to our service. She was unhappy that Cater Allen hadnt 
upgraded its systems to allow faster payments and that the upgrade was being delayed. It 
was taking three days or longer to transfer her money from her business account to her 
current account.
Cater Allen wrote to Ms W and apologised that she was given the impression her account 
would be upgraded by this point. It said it was taking time to ensure any issues arising from 
the upgrade were resolved before it upgraded the remainder of its customers accounts. It 
told Ms W that in the meantime it would arrange same-day CHAPS payments free of charge 
for all Sterling payments below £100,000 if she phoned before 4pm on a business day.
Ms W remained unhappy, so our investigator looked into her concerns. But he didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. He didnt believe Cater Allen had acted unfairly as it was 
processing payments in line with the time scales stated in its terms and conditions. It was 
also giving its customers the option to use CHAPS free of charge.
Ms W disagreed with our investigators view and asked for the case to be looked at by an 
ombudsman. So, the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold company Js complaint. Ill explain why.
Cater Allen had a responsibility to treat J fairly and to communicate with it in a way which 
was clear, fair and not misleading.Ms W says her salary is paid into the Cater Allen account, and she needs to transfer it to the 
current account she holds with another bank to access the money. It might take several days 
for the funds to appear in her other bank account if she transfers it on or before a weekend 
or bank holiday.
Cater Allen has set out the timescales for transferring payments in the terms and conditions 
of the account. These say that money usually arrives at the recipients bank the Next 
Business Day before cut-off times stated, following Business Day after cut-off times stated. 
The cut-off time for phone transfers is given as 2.30pm and is 4pm for online transfers. Cater 
Allen says it also advises its customers of the timescales each time a payment is made.  
Cater Allen says its been processing Js payments in line with the terms and conditions and 
Ms W hasnt disputed this. I appreciate Ms Ws frustration with the length of time its taking 
for the money to be transferred. But I dont think Cater Allen has acted unfairly because its 
done so in line with the terms and conditions of the account. And its also given J clear 
information about these.
Ms W is also unhappy about the length of time its taking to upgrade the account to allow 
payments to be processed using the Faster Payment Scheme. But Cater Allen has 
explained that this could take some time. And its offered Ms W the option of transferring the 
money via a same-day CHAPS payment free of charge. So overall, I think its acted 
reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman