DRN-2258878
The complaint
Miss D has complained after seeing her car advertised for sale, despite esure Insurance 
Limited (esure) settling her claim after telling her the car was beyond economical repair.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and were set out in my 
provisional decision, so I am not going to describe them again here. 
My provisional decision.
I thought the complaint should be upheld in part and I set out my reasons why. I said:
There are two things to consider here. Firstly, have esure applied the policy terms and 
conditions fairly by selling the car on despite deeming it a total loss. I can see that Miss Ds 
policy says esure has total discretion over the handling of the claim. It also says that if it 
settles a claim as a total loss, the car will become its property.
esure says it would only explore the possibility of a vehicle being retained after being 
classed as a total loss if the policyholder requested it (which it says Miss D didnt). And I 
dont think thats unreasonable. 
So, theyre entitled to do with the car as they see fit. Often they sell the cars salvage to a 
salvage agent. The salvage agent might sell the car as is or they might break it into parts 
and sell it on. That is a matter for them. I do appreciate that it was upsetting for Miss D to 
then see the car advertised for sale, having previously been told it was beyond economical 
repair and not been happy with the settlement amount which was paid to her. However, 
esure have acted fairly here and in line with the policy. 
This brings me on to the second point. Miss D is also unhappy she continued to receive 
letters about the car after esure had taken control of it following the settlement being paid. 
These include a letter from the Highways Agency about driving on the hard shoulder, a 
parking fine and a letter looking for a spare key, service pack and wheel nut key for the car 
from a new owner. Whilst none of these have led to Miss D incurring any financial loss, I 
believe they have caused further distress to her. 
I have asked esure why Miss D received these letters despite the car becoming their 
property. Theyve said Miss D had a cherished plate on the car and so it was her 
responsibility to transfer ownership, once shed retained the private plate and received the 
donor V5C logbook from the DVLA. Despite this, esure have nothing to show this was 
explained fully to Miss D. An email sent to her by esure regarding the cherished plate does 
not explain this process to Miss D. Instead, this email only gives a DVLA link to follow 
without explaining when to do it and the importance of it. 
Because of this, it does not appear the logbook transfer was actioned and this is why Miss D 
continued to receive further correspondence regarding the car. 
esure state the V5C confirms its the owners responsibility  here Miss D - to advise of a 
transfer of ownership. Whilst I agree with this, I also believe its the responsibility of esure - 
as the insurer and experienced party - to have made this process clear to Miss D. esure 
have not done that on this occasion and this has caused upset to Miss D.   
So to address that Im currently minded to require esure to pay her £200 compensation. This 
compensation takes into account the impact of the trouble and upset these letters caused. 
Esure responded to confirm that they accepted my findings. 
Miss D responded to say that she remained unhappy. She still feels that she had missed the 
opportunity for a like for like vehicle replacement through no fault of her own. Which had 
been dealt with in a seperate complaint. She said that esure have continued to handle this 
poorly and that she maintains they were responsible for the car being advertised for sale on 
a third party website. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D has not raised any new information or evidence in response to my provisional 
decision and esure has accepted my findings. 
So I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint in part, in relation to the distress and inconvenience suffered by   
Miss D as she wasnt told that she was responsible for the transfer of ownership. I find that 
esure Insurance Limited should pay her £200 to compensate for this.
My final decisionFor these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss Ds complaint in part and I order esure 
Insurance Limited to:
Pay Miss D £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she has experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them Miss D has accepted my final decision. 
If they pay later than that they must also pay interest on that amount from the date of my 
final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman
1 If esure consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Miss D how much they have taken off. They should also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.