DRN-2952298
The complaint
Mr K complains that loans given to him by Bamboo Limited trading as Bamboo Loans were 
unaffordable for him. Hes complained using a representative, but Ill only refer to Mr K.
What happened
Mr K applied for and received the following loans from Bamboo:
Date Amount New Money Monthly repayment Term
Loan 1 9 July 2019 £1,000 £1,000 £109.72 12 months
Loan 2 6 November 2019 £1,356.08 £532.40 £144.36 12 months
Loan 3 10 August 2020 £1,069.29 £509.03 £113.75 12 months
Mr K says Bamboo failed to carry out effective affordability assessments for the loans. If it 
had carried out sufficient checks, Mr K says Bamboo ought to have refused to lend to him. 
Bamboo looked into Mr Ks complaint and rejected it. It said it had undertaken its usual 
processes and noted he had no defaulted accounts or County Court Judgments registered 
on his credit file. It used electronic means and statistical data to check Mr Ks income and 
expenditure and felt the loans had been affordable for him at the time. Overall, it felt it had 
reached a reasonable decision to lend to Mr K on each occasion. 
Mr K didnt agree and referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. 
She felt that the information Bamboo obtained during the application process for the loans 
ought to have led it to carry out further checks. Had it done so, our investigator said Bamboo 
ought to have realised that increasing Mr Ks indebtedness was likely to be unsustainable, 
so it was unfair for it to have agreed to lend. She upheld Mr Ks complaint and asked 
Bamboo to put things right for him. 
Mr K accepted what our investigator said, but Bamboo didnt. It said (in summary) that 
Mr Ks demographics were strong and stable and it had no reason to ask for further 
evidence. It said the bank statements our investigator had obtained from Mr K during her 
investigation, supported its view that the loans were affordable. As there was no agreement, 
Mr Ks complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
Bamboo needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it didnt 
lend to Mr K irresponsibly. I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint:
Did Bamboo carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr K was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
Did Bamboo make a fair lending decision?
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr K in some other way?
Bamboo had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr K 
would be able to repay the loan sustainably. Its not about Bamboo assessing the likelihood 
of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr K.
There is no set list of checks that it had to do, but it could take into account several different 
things such as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments 
and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Did Bamboo carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
When Mr K applied for each loan, Bamboo searched his credit file, used its detailed credit 
model and decision-making engine and used information provided by a third party to verify 
his income, as well as information taken from his application. It said it didnt take into 
account any payments to his payday loans as hed confirmed they would be repaid in the 
next two months. 
The rules lenders must follow are set out by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). CONC 5.2A.12 says that a lender 
should consider the borrowers ability to make repayments under the agreement as they fall 
due over the life of it without having to borrow to meet the repayments. The borrower should 
be able to meet the repayments without them having a significant impact on their finances.
For Loan 1, it calculated Mr K had £428.90 disposable income which it said left plenty of 
room for the repayment of £109.77. Bamboo reached its figure based on Mr Ks stated (and 
verified) income of £2,900 per month less his stated expense for accommodation, an amount 
for living expenses calculated by its credit model and a figure for debt repayments (excluding 
payday loans) based on his credit file. The debt repayments when Mr K applied for Loan 1 
totalled £1,700  roughly 60% of his income.
Based on this calculation, I can understand why Bamboo felt Loan 1 was affordable. But Im 
not persuaded of the accuracy of the calculation. For example, Bamboo acknowledged Mr K 
had payday loans, but didnt include those.
When Loan 1 was taken, his credit file showed two open payday loans. One was under an 
arrangement to pay with a contractual monthly payment of £257, and another  taken out 
two months prior to this application  had a monthly repayment of £202. But Bamboo didnt 
take these loans into account when it calculated Mr Ks disposable income of £428.90, and 
yet the repayments to the payday loans were £459. So its clear that it would be difficult for 
Mr K to meet the first repayment at least without having to borrow further. 
Mr Ks credit file showed he had ten active credit accounts and hed taken five of them in the 
last six months. Hed missed payments to some lenders and was up to his limits on his credit 
cards. I think these factors show he wasnt fully in control of his finances.
When Mr K applied for Loan 2 four months after Loan 1 was drawn, Mr Ks income had 
increased to £3,500, his accommodation costs remained the same, his debt repayments had 
fallen to £1,620 and Bamboos calculation of his living expenses had fallen to £398 (although his living situation appears the same in his application). So according to Bamboos figures, 
this left Mr K with a monthly disposable income of £1,185. Despite this calculation, Mr K was 
seeking to borrow a further £530 at a relatively high rate of interest. 
According to his credit file, during the four months since Loan 1, Mr K had taken three new 
loans and a further payday loan. I dont think this is indicative of someone in control of their 
finances or with a monthly disposable income in excess of £1,100. The new loans were fairly 
evenly spread across the four-month period, indicating he may have been requiring further 
finance to meet regular bills.
If Mr K really had a £1,185 monthly disposable income prior to this loan being drawn, why 
would he be borrowing the sums he had in a short space of time? Bamboo had relied on a 
statistical figure to estimate his expenditure which may or may not have been accurate for 
his specific circumstances. Given he was refinancing a loan hed drawn just a few months 
earlier, and had taken further credit in the meantime, it would seem sensible to have asked 
Mr K for evidence of his expenditure, rather than assuming it was in line with averages.
When Mr K applied for Loan 3 in August 2020, his income and expenditure (according to 
Bamboo) appeared fairly similar. His debt repayments had fallen to £1,435 and his income 
remained the same, leaving a disposable income of £1,367. Given this, its not clear why 
Mr K would have been looking to borrow £509 at a relatively high rate of interest. Hed taken 
another loan within the last six months, a credit card and a further payday loan. Again, if he 
really had £1,367 disposable income why would he be looking to borrow a relatively small 
amount? I think it would have been sensible to ask further questions about his expenditure.
I think the information outlined above, together with the frequency with which Mr K was 
borrowing ought to have prompted Bamboo to look more closely at Mr Ks finances to ensure 
he could sustainably repay the loans. I dont think the checks it carried out were reasonable 
and proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did Bamboo 
make a fair lending decision?
Ive outlined above some of the circumstances which I think ought to have led Bamboo to 
carry out further checks on Mr Ks finances. I think it would have been reasonable for it to get 
a detailed understanding of his expenditure, for example by asking to see several months of 
his bank statements in light of what appears to be a reliance on credit.
Mr Ks provided us with copies of his bank statements for periods shortly before each loan 
was taken. The bank statements show payday lenders that dont appear on his credit file, 
returned direct debits and overdraft fees. He was regularly up to his £2,000 overdraft limit on 
his current account and exceeded it from time to time.
It's clear from his statements coupled with his credit file that Mr K was living on credit. It 
seems he was unable to meet his existing commitments and living expenses without 
borrowing on a regular basis. I think it ought to have been evident to Bamboo that Mr K 
would not be able to repay the loans on a sustainable basis. It follows that I dont think 
Bamboo reached a fair decision to lend to Mr K on each occasion.
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr K in some other way?
Ive carefully read and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to this 
complaint. Having done so, I dont think Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr K in some other way. But I do think Bamboo should have refused to lend to him, so I am 
upholding his complaint about the loans.Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. 
In this case, that would mean putting Mr K in the position he would be in now if he hadnt 
been given the loans. But Mr K was given the loans and used the money. So, I think 
Bamboo should:
Calculate the total amount Mr K received from Bamboo and deduct from that figure 
the repayments hes made to each loan. 
oIf this results in Mr K having repaid more than he received, any overpayments 
should be refunded to him. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per year should be 
added to any overpayments from the date they were made until the date of 
settlement*.
oIf the calculation means theres still a balance for Mr K to pay, Bamboo should 
let him know how much is outstanding and reach a suitable, affordable 
payment plan with him. I remind Bamboo of its obligation to treat customers 
fairly. 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ks credit file regarding each loan. 
*If Bamboo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. Bamboo Limited trading as 
Bamboo Loans should put things right for Mr K in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman