DRN-4496887
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service provided by Aviva Insurance Limited when handling his 
motor insurance claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to Mr M and Aviva. In my decision, Ill focus 
mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr Ms car suffered vandalism damage and he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
Aviva accepted the claim and repairs were arranged. 
Mr M later complained to Aviva about the repairs. In particular, the cars rims not being 
repaired and a previous ceramic paint coating not being replaced. As Mr M remained 
dissatisfied, he referred his complaint to our Service for an independent review. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but she didnt recommend that it be upheld. As Mr 
M remained unhappy, the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Service is an alternative, informal dispute resolution service. Although I may not address 
every point raised as part of this complaint - I have considered them. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
I note Mr M has requested to speak to the deciding Ombudsman. I dont find that is 
necessary given the wealth of evidence and responses already on file - as well as the 
thorough investigation thats already taken place. By concentrating on considering the 
evidence provided by both parties and not directly speaking to either the respondent or 
complainant, it generally allows our Ombudsmen to preserve their impartiality and help more 
customers overall. 
My decision will address the two complaint points referenced above and I note than an 
additional complaint point not addressed by the final response letter was referred to our 
Service. This was in relation to the service provided, specifically the Equality Act and 
accessibility. In the interests of pragmatism and because Aviva have had the opportunity to 
respond on this point, Ive kept it in mind when reaching my decision.
Mr M has another complaint with our Service in relation to other issues around this claim. I 
wont comment on those issues in this decision. 
The wheel rims
Mr M has said that the damage being claimed for wasnt caused by wear and tear, but by the 
act of vandalism. Hes told us the police have referred to the vandals having steel toe boots 
and presumably kicking the rims. Aviva on the other hand, say that the damage to the rims 
was likely caused by scraping from contact with kerbs. 
Having reviewed photographs of the damage, on the balance of probabilities and in the 
absence of other sufficiently persuasive supporting evidence from Mr M, I find that Aviva 
have fairly considered this area of damage in line with the policy terms before declining to 
repair it. 
The ceramic paint/coating
Mr M is unhappy that a previous paint finish he had applied to the car after policy inception 
hasnt been restored. Aviva say that they do not insure ceramic coatings. Generally, this will 
be because an insurer perceives that the paint modification makes a car more attractive to 
thieves as theres an element of customisation above and beyond the factory specification. 
Mr M further says he had contacted Aviva in 2019 to let them know and hed been told it 
wouldnt be treated as a modification. Aviva say theyve no record of any such contact and 
as the coating wasnt applied as part of the repairs - so theyd treated the car as no longer 
having it. In the absence of any other supporting evidence of Mr M having contacted Aviva, 
Ive considered (for the purposes of my decision) that Aviva only became aware of the paint 
modification at the time of repair. 
Had Aviva been fully aware of the coating theyve said theyd not have continued to insure 
the risk. But on the other hand, Mr M now has a car that doesnt have the benefit of the 
additional ceramic paint that he paid extra for. 
Our Services normal approach to this type of scenario would be to consider the relevant 
law, which is usually the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). Without going into detail, wed generally look at whether Mr M took reasonable 
care not to make a qualifying misrepresentation either when renewing his insurance contract 
following the ceramic paint application or when the risk changed (following the paint 
application) and what steps Aviva could take a as result. Some policies will require 
disclosure of information that changes the risk to the insurer at the point of the risk changing 
(mid-term) and other policies when renewal comes around. But in the specifics of this 
complaint I wouldnt seek to apply the principles of CIDRA or interfere with what Aviva have 
done. I say this because:
Whilst I can see how Mr M would feel aggrieved, he has benefited under this policy 
(through this claim).
Had Aviva chosen to cancel or avoid the insurance policy (when the ceramic paint 
came to light) I find it likely that Mr M would arguably be in a worse position now 
because the claim may not have needed to have been settled and hed have to 
declare any cancellation or avoidance to future insurers - and would almost certainly 
have higher premiums. 
Ive kept in mind that he has had the damaged paint work areas repaired under this 
claim. 
On balance, I dont find that Aviva have treated Mr M unfairly, unreasonably or that Mr M has 
lost out in relation to this point - and I wont seek to interfere with their actions 
Access to Avivas servicesMr M says that Aviva have discriminated against him based on his disabilities. But its not my 
role, or the role of this Service to decide whether Aviva acted unlawfully or not breached the 
relevant legislation (including the Equality Act 2010). That would be a matter for the Courts. 
My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. But 
when reaching that finding, I have taken a number of things into account - including relevant 
law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So, although its 
for the Courts to say whether or not Aviva breached the Equality Act 2010 (or other relevant 
legislation), Im required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account - if its relevant, amongst 
other things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint.
Ive considered what Mr M has told us about his accessibility requirements alongside what 
Aviva have told us about the customer journey here when taking out a policy. Im satisfied 
that the relevant website makes it clear that this particular brand of Avivas is online only. 
The relevant home page states:
Our self-service insurance means you manage your policy online. You can even 
make a claim online and get back to normal quickly. You can also do things like view 
and download your documents and make changes to your policy.
Being online means well send your policy information via email or SMS. If you get 
stuck or have a question just email us and one of our friendly experts will help you.
Im also satisfied the website makes it sufficiently clear what their service offering is and their 
accessibility section of the website includes contact details where a customer has been 
unable to find a solution based on the information provided. Aviva have made a commercial 
decision to make this brand of their business online only, likely resulting in cost savings 
which can be passed on to customers. Thats not something our Service can interfere with. 
My overall decision outcome will disappoint Mr M but it brings to an end our Services 
involvement in trying to informally resolve this part of his dispute with Aviva.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman