DRN-3599338
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain about Hiscox Underwriting Limited trading as Hiscox (Hiscox) for 
declining their claim for a broken window. They want Hiscox to reimburse them for the cost 
of a new window, minus their policy excess.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs L held home insurance with Hiscox. Their policy covered their home against 
physical loss or physical damage which happened during the period of insurance, subject to 
the policys exclusions.
Around mid-2018 they had a window installed at their home, which used tempered glass.
After around two and a half years, in late 2020, Mr L and Mrs Ls window spontaneously 
shattered.
They contacted Hiscox and logged a claim. They were given the impression that the claim 
would be covered, subject to the policy excess.
Mr L and Mrs L replaced the glass in their window and returned a sample of the broken glass 
to the manufacturer. The manufacturer wrote to them advising that, after testing the sample, 
there was a small metal inclusion in the glass. It appeared likely that the cause of the 
breakage was heat expansion of the metal inclusion in the glass.
Hiscox considered the claim and declined the claim. Hiscox referred to an exclusion in its 
policy wording which excluded damage caused by faulty workmanship or design, or the use 
of unsuitable or faulty materials.
Mr L and Mrs L were not happy with this and complained.
Hiscox sent its final response to their complaint in September 2021. It referred to the report 
from the window manufacturer and reiterated that it considered this to fall within the policy 
exclusion.
Mr L and Mrs L were not happy with this and contacted us.
Our investigator reviewed the matter and recommended that Hiscox should pay the claim, 
subject to the excess. She considered that Hiscox had not sufficiently demonstrated that the 
window was faulty, and so had not done enough to show that the exclusion applied.
Hiscox did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
I previously set out my view in a provisional decision issued in June 2022. In that provisional 
decision I explained that I thought that Hiscox had reasonably relied on the exclusion to 
decline the claim, as the evidence supported that the window broke due to a faulty material. 
That provisional decision has been shared and the parties have been invited to comment on 
it. 
Hiscox has not responded to the provisional decision. Mr L and Mrs L have made some 
submissions in response. 
They disagree with my assessment and argue that there is no evidence of fault in the way 
the window was manufactured, supplied or installed, and that metal inclusions are a naturally 
occurring phenomenon in glass which it would be impossible to fully eradicate. They say 
that, even with all parties doing the right thing, there would still be a small proportion of glass 
that would fail and they think that insurance ought to cover those cases. They think that to 
fairly decline the claim, Hiscox would need to conclusively find that metal inclusions were the 
cause of the window breaking and that the manufacturer had failed to identify them. 
They also refer to a commercial case where a high level of proof was needed to demonstrate 
that the manufacturers were at fault. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr L and Mrs Ls upset and frustration at my provisional decision, and I have 
considered all that they have said in response. 
These submissions do not, however, change my view and I still think that Hiscox was not 
unreasonable to decline the claim relying on the exclusion. 
Mr L and Mrs L have commented that there was no evidence of fault from the manufacturers 
or installers and I agree with this. I do not think that this makes a difference however, as I am 
not saying that any party is at fault for the window breaking. 
I accept much of what Mr L and Mrs L have said, and accept that even with flawless 
processes, it would not be possible to eradicate metal inclusions completely. I do not 
suggest that the manufacturer made a mistake or that the process for reducing the incidence 
of windows with metal inclusions is inadequate. 
There is little dispute that the likely cause of the breakage was a metal inclusion, and I 
remain of the view that this was a fault within the material. I appreciate that every effort was 
made to ensure that the window placed did not include a metal inclusion, but it appears that 
it ultimately did. The window contained a latent defect (the metal inclusion) and that defect 
caused the window to shatter. 
The exclusion in the policy was for faulty workmanship or design, or the use of unsuitable or 
faulty materials. I do not suggest that the workmanship or design were faulty, or that the 
materials were generally unsuitable, but in this case the material contained a fault (the 
inclusion) and so can be fairly described as a faulty material. Ordinarily, faults manifesting in 
a material would be an issue for the manufacturer, or for a warranty, but in this case the 
manufacturer does not warrant that the windows are free from inclusions. I understand that 
this leaves Mr L and Mrs L with no other recourse, but I do not think that makes it the 
responsibility of the insurer when they have agreed the policy on the basis of damage 
caused by latent defects not being covered. 
I appreciate that this does not feel fair when Mr L and Mrs L have not done anything wrong, 
but I remain of the view that Hiscox has acted fairly in applying the exclusion and declining 
the claim. Consequently, whilst I know this will be disappointing to Mr L and Mrs L, I do not uphold their 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold Mr L and Mrs 
Ls complaint and I do not ask Hiscox Underwriting Limited trading as Hiscox to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman