DRN-2028530
The complaint
Mrs N complains about the way Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) have 
handled her claim made under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. 
What happened
The lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide a 
summary of the key events here. In 2008 Mrs N made a purchase on her Barclaycard for 
£4,900 to a company Ill refer to as F. 
Mrs N said that the goods shed ordered from F were never delivered and she later made a 
claim to Barclaycard under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA). Barclaycard 
accepted the claim and offered to refund Mrs N the £4,900 that had debited her card.
Mrs N said that shed paid a further £5,000 to F by payment of two cheques the year before 
the transaction on her Barclaycard  she wanted this to be refunded too. Barclaycard 
declined saying that there was no evidence to suggest these previous payments had been 
made, nor that they were linked to the same invoice for her £4,900 payment in 2008. 
Barclaycard responded to Mrs Ns complaint about this in 2015 and again in 2018 when Mrs 
N raised a number of further claims. Barclaycard maintained their position that their offer of 
£4,900 would stand, but they wouldnt agree to more. Ultimately Mrs N accepted the offer of 
£4,900 from Barclaycard and signed an acceptance form in full and final settlement on 19 
June 2019. Mrs N had by this time already referred the matter to our service. One of our 
investigators didnt think it was a complaint we should consider. In summary, she concluded 
that Mrs N had accepted Barclaycards offer in full and final settlement and that there was no 
further dispute for us to consider. 
Mrs N disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. Ive previously 
issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I wasnt persuaded this complaint 
should be dismissed without considering its merits. I also set out that having thought about 
the complaint, I didnt think it should be upheld. I said:
Barclaycard explained to Mrs N that theyd accepted that the goods in relation to her £4,900 
payment hadnt been delivered. As such they offered a refund of that amount in full and final 
settlement. Mrs Ns testimony is that shed previously made another order in 2007 for which 
shed paid a total £5,000 by two cheques. She wants that too considered under Section 75. 
Barclaycard explained that there was insufficient evidence to link the payments Mrs N says 
shed made by cheque to the £4,900. They gave an example to explain that if there was an 
invoice for £9,900 from F  which evidenced that £5,000 had been paid by cheque and 
£4,900 on her Barclaycard  then they would consider the full amount. But as no such 
evidence had been provided, there was nothing to link the two transactions. They also 
pointed out that Mrs N hadnt provided evidence of the cheque payments themselves.
The CCA means that in certain circumstances Barclaycard, as the credit provider, can be 
liable if there is a breach of contract by F. And there is no requirement that the full amount is 
on credit. But in the circumstances here, I dont think Barclaycards position is unreasonable. 
They gave Mrs N the opportunity to provide further evidence to support that the £4,900 
payment was part of a larger transaction. But when this wasnt provided they limited the 
reimbursement they would offer to £4,900. This is in line with what Id expect. 
Mrs N has also argued that interest should be payable to her on the £4,900 that she 
accepted in June 2019. Barclaycard made this offer available to Mrs N in at least 2015 and 
she didnt accept it until 2019. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclaycard to pay 
interest on that amount. Ive not seen evidence to suggest that Barclaycard ought to have 
made their offer sooner than they did. Overall, I dont think that Barclaycard were 
unreasonable to decline to pay Mrs N the additional £5,000 that she says she should be due. 
Barclaycard offered Mrs N £100 as a gesture of goodwill in October 2018 for any confusion 
that had been caused in their handling of the matter. On the evidence Ive seen so far, I dont 
think there were significant service failings by Barclaycard, so Im not intending to tell 
Barclaycard they need to pay more.
Barclaycard responded to say they accepted the outcome of my provisional decision. Mrs N 
responded and made some points which Ill address below. Now both sides have had the 
opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to deviate from the outcome I set out in my provisional 
decision. Much of Mrs Ns response repeated the same points shed previously raised. So, I 
wont cover those points again as they were addressed in my provisional decision, part of 
which is copied above. 
Mrs N also believes that our service has confused matters and that this complaint is solely 
about the claim for £5,000. She believes it is inappropriate for me to comment on the claim 
for £4,900. Ive considered this but I dont agree. Mrs N herself says that the £5,000 payment 
made to F was paid using two cheques. But there is no entitlement to protection under 
Section 75 of the CCA for payments made by cheque (and not on credit). And indeed, some 
of the documentation Mrs N submitted shows she was making one claim for £9,900 rather 
than two different claims as she now states.  
If, as Mrs N now says, this is two separate matters, there would be no reason for 
Barclaycard to consider a claim in relation to cheque payments. The only way the cheques 
could be considered as part of a Section 75 claim would be if there were evidence that they 
were part of a larger payment at least some of which was made on credit with Barclaycard.
As I explained above, I dont believe there is evidence to link the cheque payments to the 
£4,900 credit payment. Mrs N herself is now agreeing that the cheque payments were 
separate. I therefore dont believe Barclaycard need to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. If the £100 gesture of goodwill referred to above hasnt already been paid, and 
she would like to accept it, Mrs N should contact Barclaycard to arrange this.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman