DRN-3771426
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy with what DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited did after she 
made a claim on her legal expenses insurance policy in February 2020. 
What happened
Ms A was injured following an assault at work in June 2009. She made claims on her policy 
but following an assessment of their prospects of success by panel solicitors cover was 
withdrawn in 2012. Ms A continued to pursue the claims and contacted DAS again in 
February 2020. I understand that followed a successful judicial review challenge to a 
decision of the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority. 
DAS requested information from Ms A which she provided in early April. She also set out 
reasonable adjustments she required because of her disabilities. However, it doesnt appear 
DAS fully considered that information and policy coverage wasnt confirmed until June 2020 
when panel solicitors were appointed. DAS issued a final response to the complaint Ms A 
made in August. It acknowledged it could have taken action earlier and offered £250 to 
recognise the inconvenience its delays had caused. 
Following Ms As complaint to us DAS provided consent for us to consider the matter (as it 
had been referred more than six months after its final response was issued). It also 
acknowledged additional failings as it hadnt made reasonable adjustments to enable Ms A 
to access its final response and there had been a delay in providing information the panel 
firm asked for about the case. It offered £500 in total to recognise the impact of this on Ms A. 
Our investigator agreed there were failings in the customer service DAS provided but 
thought the £500 it had now offered fairly recognised the impact on Ms A of this. 
Ms A didnt agree. In summary she said:
Her complaint had been made in time as she hadnt received the final response DAS 
sent in August 2020. And DAS hadnt provided her with information about the panel 
solicitors who had been appointed to act or updated her on what the current position with 
her claim was. 
Compensation should apply for the whole of the period from February 2020 when she 
made her claim until 30 November 2022 (the deadline shed set for contact to be made 
by DAS).  A figure of £1440 would be appropriate for this period plus £2000 for 
discriminatory and abusive conduct contrary to the Equality Act 2010 and the Human 
Rights Act 1998.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say DAS has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ms A has expressed concern about the original decline of her claim in 2012. However, our 
investigator explained those arent matters we can consider because theyve been referred 
to us too late. So that isnt something Im looking at in this decision. What Im considering is 
what happened after Ms A contacted DAS to make a fresh claim in February 2020. 
However, Im only doing so up to and including the point at which DAS issued a final 
response to the complaint Ms A made in August 2020. Ms A may well have further concerns 
about what happened after this but those would need to form part of a separate complaint 
which it would be for DAS to consider in the first instance.
Turning to what happened after the claim was made in February 2020 I dont think its in 
dispute DAS didnt handle this as it should. Ms A provided information in support of her claim 
in April but DAS doesnt appear to have properly considered this. DAS also accepted it didnt 
make reasonable adjustments to ensure Ms A could access the final response it sent and 
there was also a delay in passing on information once panel solicitors had been appointed. 
Ms A believes the failings were to DASs benefit and designed to save it money. I havent 
seen other evidence to support that but, in any case, the key point is DAS got things wrong. 
So, in line with our normal approach, Ive moved on to consider how thats impacted Ms A 
and what DAS needs to do to put things right. In doing so Ive taken into account the Equality 
Act 2010 given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on 
whats fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. 
I think if DAS had acted as it should its likely the claim would have been referred to panel 
solicitors earlier than it actually was. And while the delay here is over a relatively short period 
I do accept the impact of that on Ms A is likely to be greater given her disabilities and her 
understandable concern about the underlying legal case. I think it will have been both 
frustrating and distressing for her that DAS didnt then make the necessary adjustments to 
enable her to access its final response; Ms A says she didnt even receive that letter until 
much later.  
Ive considered the compensation figures Ms A has put forward. But her calculation appears 
to take into account events that relate to her 2012 claim and things that happened after DAS 
issued its August 2020 final response. Those are outside of the scope of this complaint. 
Taking everything into account, in particular the points in the previous paragraph about the 
impact on Mrs A, I think the £500 DAS has now offered is an appropriate amount to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience she was caused by what it got wrong in this case. 
Ms A has also argued her complaint was made in time because she didnt receive the final 
response. However, the six month clock for a referral to be made is started when a valid 
final response is sent. Not receiving the response is something we could potentially consider 
as an exceptional reason for not meeting the time limit. But that isnt something I need to 
consider in this case because DAS agreed we could look at the complaint despite it being 
referred out of time. Finally, I appreciate in her last contact with us Ms A was unclear about the current position 
with her claim and said information shed requested hadnt been provided to her. I can also 
see our investigator previously asked DAS to contact Ms A and ensure matters were now 
moving forward as they should. If there are outstanding issues here Id encourage DAS to 
ensure Ms A is clear about the current position and what the next steps with this claim are. 
And if shes unhappy with actions DAS has taken since the August 2020 final response 
those are matters she can raise as part of a fresh complaint. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited will 
need to put things right by paying Ms A £500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman