DRN-3487902
The complaint
Mr A complains about The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
not adding a horse to his horse and rider insurance policy when he asked them to, then 
declining a claim made for treatment to his horse as they said the horse wasnt covered.
References to NFU include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Mr A had a horse and rider insurance policy with NFU, under which he insured three horses. 
In June 2021 he phoned NFU as he wanted to add a fourth horse to the policy, for which he 
was completing the purchase, from the following day. NFU couldnt give him a price for 
adding the horse to the policy, as the horse was valued at more than £10,000 and under 
their guidelines it needed to be referred to the underwriters to calculate a price. Because of 
this, NFU said theyd call him back (the following day) to give Mr A the price and confirm 
cover (and to ask for specific documentation about the horses vet history and proof of 
purchase). But this didnt happen. 
However, Mr A thought NFU understood his wish to add the horse to his policy and when his 
monthly premium changed, he thought this meant the horse had been added to his policy.
A while later the horse developed a condition and was treated by a vet, so Mr A made a 
claim for the cost of treatment. But NFU declined the claim as they said the horse wasnt 
insured under the policy. Unhappy at the claim being declined and NFU saying the horse 
wasnt covered, when he thought it was, Mr A complained to NFU.
NFU didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said when Mr A contacted 
them, hed asked for a quote to add his horse to the policy. But theyd told him theyd have to 
refer the issue to the underwriting team, due to the value of the horse, and then call Mr A 
back. However, this didnt happen. NFU apologised for this poor service and awarded £150 
as a goodwill gesture. But they didnt think cover for the horse had been confirmed, or that 
Mr A had paid for the additional cover. Cover hadnt been provided as theyd not confirmed 
the terms of any cover and obtaining Mr As explicit consent to those terms. Consequently, 
they couldnt backdate cover to the date Mr A called them, so cover wasnt in place for the 
horses treatment.
Unhappy at NFUs response, Mr A complained to this service. The main part of his complaint 
was that he thought NFU should have understood his wish to add the horse to his policy and 
that when he contacted NFU hed made it clear this is what he wanted (not simply to ask for 
a quote for adding the horse to the policy). Mr A asked for the policy to be backdated to 
include the horse from the date he contacted NFU to ask for the horse to be added. He also 
wanted NFU to accept his claim for the cost of treatment to the horse.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint, concluding NFU didnt need to take any 
action. He thought NFU hadnt confirmed the horse had been added to the policy in the initial 
call and while NFU hadnt called Mr A back as theyd said they would, he thought Mr A could 
have contacted NFU to confirm cover for his horse was in place. Based on this, he didnt 
think NFU not calling Mr A back could be held directly responsible for the horse not being 
added to the policy.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether NFU has acted fairly towards Mr A.
 
The key issue in Mr As complaint is whether NFU acted fairly in saying his horse hadnt 
been added to the policy following his request for it to be added. Mr A says it was very clear 
when he contacted NFU that he wanted to add the horse to the policy (not simply ask for a 
quote for the cost of doing so) from the following day. And that NFU said that wouldnt be an 
issue (given the details hed provided about the horse). And because his premium 
subsequently changed, he thought that meant the horse had been added.
  
NFUs view is Mr A asked for a quote to add his horse to the policy, but theyd said theyd 
have to refer the issue to the underwriting team and then call him back. Because this didnt 
happen (which they acknowledge was their mistake) cover for the horse wasnt confirmed, 
and Mr A hadnt paid for the additional cover. Cover hadnt been provided as theyd not 
confirmed the terms of any cover and obtaining Mr As explicit consent to those terms.
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the supporting information and evidence 
provided by both Mr A and NFU. Given the importance of the call Mr A made to NFU asking 
for his horse to be added to the policy, Ive also listened to the recording of the call to see 
what was said. Based on this, Ive concluded NFU have acted fairly towards Mr A, so I wont 
be asking them to take any further action. I know this will be very disappointing to Mr A, so 
Ill set out why Ive come to that conclusion.
Given its importance, Ive first considered the call from Mr A to NFU. Listening to it, its clear 
Mr A wants to add his horse to the policy, from the following day. He isnt (as NFU argues) 
asking for a quote. The call covers details of the horse, which is what Id expect. However, 
its made clear the value of the horse means NFU would need to pass the details to the 
underwriting team  although NFU say it shouldnt be an issue given the other details 
provided about the horse. Its also made clear NFU will need a vet report and proof of 
purchase (Mr A provides an email address for NFU to contact him for those details, as well 
as a mobile number for NFU to call him the following day). Its also clear NFU say the call 
will provide Mr A with the price of adding the horse to the policy and confirm cover.
Taking all these points into account, I think it was clear that cover would need to be 
confirmed through the follow-up call  it wasnt in place from the initial call Mr A made to 
NFU. Had the call back taken place, I think it likely that cover would have been confirmed. 
But thats not what happened (and NFU acknowledge it to be their mistake). However, in the 
circumstances, I would have expected Mr A to contact NFU to confirm cover (and provide 
the documentation theyd requested). I dont think NFUs failure to call him back could 
reasonably have been taken to indicate cover was in place  NFU hadnt confirmed it directly 
(or the price of the cover) nor had they sent updated policy documentation that would have 
confirmed cover
. 
Another point Mr A makes is that the direct debit for his policy changed, which he took to 
indicate the horse had been added to the policy. However, from the documents Ive seen, Mr As policy renewed shortly after the call made to add his horse to the policy. The notice of 
renewal documents (issued in May 2021) indicate the renewal premium was going to 
increase, compared with the previous year. For that reason, Im satisfied thats why Mr A 
saw his direct debit increase. That would explain why Mr A subsequently saw his direct debit 
increase - it wasnt because the horse had been added to the policy. As he wouldnt have 
received any subsequent documentation showing an additional increase for his horse being 
added to the policy, I think that would support the conclusion cover hadnt been confirmed 
and agreed for the horse.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman