DRN-3728495
The complaint
Mr B complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In December 2020, Mr B acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr B paid a £13 deposit and was required to make 59 monthly repayments of 
around £403. The total repayable under the agreement was around £23,796.
Mr B says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a full credit search which showed Mr Bs 
most recent default was 10 months prior to the application. It said it verified Mr Bs income 
through the credit reference agency and used statistical data to assess his non-discretionary 
spending. It said based on its checks Mr B had monthly disposable income of just over 
£1,000. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr B didnt agree and said he had experienced payment issues over an extended period 
with defaults and county court judgements being applied to his accounts. He said the 
assessment of his income was incorrect as his bank statements showed turnover from his 
self-employment not the income that was available to him.  
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before lending to Mr B, Moneybarn has explained it carried out a credit check. It noted that 
Mr B had defaulted debt on his credit report but the most recent of the defaults was ten 
months prior to application. Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it 
completed. Ive therefore relied on a copy of the credit file supplied by Mr B. I think this gives 
a good indication of what Moneybarn would likely have seen. At the time of the application it 
shows that Mr B had a judgement in place (from March 2018) and had previously defaulted 
on accounts. His most recent default was recorded in February 2020. Mr B was over his limit 
on this credit card and was in arrears. I think this ought to have indicated that Mr B had 
experienced previous financial difficulties and that these may be ongoing. It therefore would 
have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have got a more thorough understanding of 
Mr Bs financial circumstances before lending.
Given the overall size of the borrowing, the monthly repayments and the term of the 
agreement, I think it would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have verified Mr Bs 
income and expenditure before lending. I note that it verified Mr Bs income with the credit 
reference agency and gathered statistical data for his expenses, but I t think in this case it 
would have been proportionate to have gathered specific information about Mr Bs 
circumstances to ensure the lending was affordable.
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. These show that 
Mr B was receiving income from different sources which is consistent with his self-
employment. While I note his comments about the income in his statements being his 
business turnover and not available for his personal use, I have assessed the information in 
his statements to include all income and outgoings to get an understanding of his financial 
position. Having looked through his statements for the three months leading up to the 
agreement, his average monthly income was around £2,700. 
Mr Bs regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was around £900. In calculating 
this figure, Ive included payments for car tax, insurance, communications providers, food 
and fuel as well as transfers to third parties and payments for what appear likely to be work 
related expenses. Additional to this I note that Mr B was making regular cash withdrawals. 
While these may have been for work related costs, I cannot say for certain the full amount 
was for these purposes, but I think it reasonable that a proportion of these were taken into 
account. Taking these figures into account, I think had proportionate checks taken place, 
Moneybarn would still more likely than not have found the agreement to have been 
affordable. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving 
the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman