DRN-1574780
 
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by Mr Ms father as he has a Lasting Power of Attorney 
over Mr Ms affairs. Any reference to Mr M in this decision should be taken to mean the 
mortgage-holder, and Ill refer to his father as Mr M1.
Mr M1 says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) shouldnt have granted Mr M this 
mortgage in 2015.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Suffice to say Ive read and 
understood everything Mr M1 has told us about his son and his circumstances.
I dont doubt that this is very important to Mr M but although Ive read and considered the 
whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point, such as the individual rules Mr M1 thinks Halifax has breached, its not 
because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach the right outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
The mortgage broker wasnt appointed by - or acting on behalf of - Halifax; the businesses in 
question just didnt have that relationship. The mortgage broker was appointed by - and 
acting on behalf of - Mr M. There was no regulatory requirement for Halifax to replicate the 
role of the mortgage broker and separately ensure the advice was suitable. So, the fact it 
may not have done so isnt something I can blame it for as it simply didnt have to.
Ive seen Halifaxs lending policy and Im satisfied the information Mr M provided about his 
contract and income met that. That policy is commercially sensitive so were unable to 
disclose it to Mr M or Mr M1. I understand Mr M1 thinks Halifax should have asked more 
questions or obtained more information but what it obtained was fairly standard in the 
industry. Its not my role to tell a lender what its lending policy should be, nor is it my role to 
interfere with lending decisions that are made in line with that policy.
There was also no reason for Halifax to obtain more information based on what was said 
and provided as it had a copy of Mr Ms contract (which had been running for about 
18 months) and there were payments into his bank account from the company he was 
contracting for that were broadly in line with what youd expect to see based on the contract. 
The fact the payments in were round figures wouldnt ring alarm bells, as whilst Mr M1 has 
never received - or paid - a round figure monthly salary that doesnt mean no-one does. 
Unless Mr M1 is saying his son and the company he was working for were involved in a 
serious fraudulent incident, such that the company was paying Mr M for work he hadnt done 
then the evidence suggests Mr M was contracting for the company in question and getting 
paid for doing so in line with the contract provided. 
At the time of the sale Mr M had a loan, a credit card and used his overdraft. The total debt 
wasnt significant in relation to his declared (and proven) income. All his credit commitments 
were up to date with no recent missed payments. So all things considered there was nothing 
there that would cause a lender any concern, as there was nothing to indicate either an 
unusual use of credit, or a reliance on it.
Halifax sent a copy of the mortgage application form to Mr M as part of its processing of his 
application and asked him to check the form and let it know if there were any errors.
Mr M1 has said Halifax shouldnt have lent the money to his son as he was vulnerable, but 
Halifax had no way of knowing that. From the information weve been provided it seems 
Mr M didnt receive his mental health disorder diagnosis until two years after the mortgage 
was taken out, and Mr M1 didnt register a Lasting Power of Attorney until about three years 
after the mortgage was taken out.
Mr M1 has said the reason given for the remortgage was wrong as he had already bought 
out his other sons share of the property, so Mr M didnt need to borrow further funds for that. 
Hes questioned why Halifax believed a half share of the property would be worth under 
£100,000 and why Mr M was paid directly. 
The mortgage that was being paid off was held jointly by Mr M and his brother. The new 
mortgage was taken out just by Mr M. So that gives support to the application Mr M had put 
forward, in that he was raising funds to buy his brother out. The funds werent sent to Mr M 
directly, they were sent to Mr Ms solicitor (that he chose himself, rather than them being 
appointed by Halifax). The solicitor was then responsible for paying off the existing mortgage 
and distributing the remaining funds correctly. Halifax would have no way of knowing  and 
no reason to get involved in  what happened to the surplus funds after the existing 
mortgage had been paid off.
The amount being borrowed wouldnt cause any concerns as Halifax wouldnt have known 
whether Mr M had savings he was using to top-up the pay-off to his brother, or what the 
agreement was between them. The property could have been owned 75/25 in Mr Ms favour, 
or there could have been an informal agreement between Mr M and his brother that Mr M 
would pay a much lower sum to buy his brother out. Or, it could have been that Mr M put in a 
much larger deposit upfront. 
Im not saying any of these were the case, Im just explaining that there are so many reasons 
why Mr M may have been borrowing less than 50% of the property value that it wouldnt 
have raised any concerns with Halifax. It had no responsibility to delve into Mr Ms personal 
agreement with his brother as that simply wasnt its concern.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Halifax did nothing wrong in granting this 
mortgage as all the evidence Mr M provided supported the information he declared, and the 
information and evidence met Halifaxs lending criteria.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2020. 
Julia MeadowsOmbudsman