DRN-4242118
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how One Insurance Limited dealt with her claim on her accidental 
damage cover as part of her home insurance.
What happened
Mrs B had a home insurance policy. It came with an accidental damage extension that was 
underwritten by One Insurance. 
In September 2022 she made a claim after a kitchen cupboard suddenly fell from the wall 
causing damage to the contents as well as the kitchen surface and floor. One Insurance l 
sent a contractor to look at the damage and accepted the claim.
However it took some time for it to repair the kitchen surface and when it did, Mrs B was 
unhappy with the standard of repairs. There was also a disagreement about how the floor 
should be settled. As the kitchen floor joined straight onto the floor in the hallway. One 
Insurance said the hallway floor wouldnt be covered as it wasnt damage. So said it would 
create a threshold between the two and just replace the damaged kitchen floor. However 
Mrs B didnt agree to this as she said she didnt have a threshold before and didnt think it 
was fair she was left with one.
She made a complaint and One Insurance awarded £150 compensation as it agreed the 
repair to the kitchen surface had been inadequate. However it said it had acted fairly by 
offering to just replace the kitchen floor and install a threshold at the doorway between the 
kitchen and hall. It said it would provide a cash settlement so Mrs B could see if she could 
get both done for the amount. 
Mrs B was unhappy with this response and brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought One Insurance should 
complete the repair to the kitchen floor and provide a 50% contribution to a new hallway 
floor. And she thought it should pay an additional £150 to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused.
Mrs B accepted our investigators outcome, however One Insurance didnt respond. So the 
matter has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One Insurance has provided this service with very little information in relation to this 
complaint, despite being given ample opportunity to do so. Nor has it responded to our 
investigators outcome.
The rules that govern this service are laid out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook  the Dispute Resolution: Complaints Sourcebook (DISP). DISP 3.5.1 states that 
The Ombudsman will attempt to resolve complaints at the earliest possible stage and by 
whatever means appear to him to be most appropriate
As One Insurance has been given many months to provide information, I dont believe it 
would be fair to delay matters any further. I therefore consider it appropriate to proceed to a 
decision based on the evidence available, without waiting further for a response from One 
Insurance
One insurance has accepted that the kitchen floor has been damaged as part of the claim. 
And that the flooring was previously continuous into the hallway. However under the policy 
its only required to repair or replace items that were damaged as part of the claim. So its 
only offered to repair the kitchen floor and create a threshold where this meets the hallway. 
While One Insurance has said it will create a threshold between the two floors, this wouldnt 
put Mrs B back into the position she was in before the claim  which is what wed expect it to 
do. 
Further, this service generally takes the position that where a customer suffers a loss of 
match due to damage thats covered under the policy, then its fair for the insurer to 
compensate them for this. Even when its not covered by the policy. We generally think this 
should be at 50% of the cost of the additional repair thats required in order to obtain a 
match. 
Based on this, I agree with our investigator that One Insurance should repair the flooring in 
the kitchen and pay 50% of the cost of a full repair to the hallway floor. 
From looking at the correspondence provided by Mrs B I can see that its taken a long time 
for One Insurance to deal with this claim. While some delays were due to its contractors 
availability, so out of its control, it appeared to do very little to help try and find alternatives 
that may have moved the claim along more promptly. And during this time, Mrs B was left 
with a kitchen surface that she felt presented a safety risk to her children. 
Additionally, when the repair was carried out, One Insurance has accepted it wasnt done to 
a good standard, which caused a further delay. Based on this I agree with our investigator 
that it should pay an additional £150 compensation to apologise for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I direct One Insurance Limited to:
Repair Mrs Bs kitchen floor and provide her with 50% of the cost of a replacement 
hallway floor, based on a quote provided by Mrs B. 
Pay an additional £150 compensation on top of the £150 already offered. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman