DRN-1464869
The complaint
Mrs T complained about how Hastings Insurance Services Limited handled her cancellation 
of her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs T sold her car and emailed Hastings to cancel the policy. She said that despite several 
emails and calls, it took them two weeks to cancel it. She felt that she could been held 
responsible for any incidents occurring with the car between the sale and cancellation. She 
wanted compensation for that and for Hastingss poor service and said that one of their call 
handlers had been threatening.
Hastings apologised for not having replied to her email within a couple of days. They 
explained that they preferred to hear about cancellation by phone. That was so that they 
could verify the insureds identity, explain about the cancellation process and that they 
needed to see proof that shed sold the car when she said she had.
Once Hastings had that information, they did backdate her policy cancellation to the date of 
sale and made her a premium refund. They also apologised, waived the £45 cancellation fee 
and compensated her £30 to recognise the distress and inconvenienced caused. Mrs T 
didnt think this was enough.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Hastings acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances and that theyd put her back in the 
same position. Mrs T didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do see that Mrs T is very unhappy about this issue. She says that she has asked the police 
to look at how the motor insurance industry deals with it, and that she is aware of other 
consumer complaints about it. However as our investigator has explained, it's not our role to 
punish a business and we can only look at Mrs Ts situation and the impact of Hastingss 
actions on her. 
Ive looked at Hastingss records and listened to the recordings of calls she had with them. 
She felt that shed given Hastings all the information they needed right away to cancel the 
policy. But I think that it was reasonable for Hastings to require proof that she no longer 
owned the car. As the investigator explained, Hastings does have a legal obligation to 
maintain insurance cover and cant cancel a policy without doing necessary checks and 
getting good evidence. 
I see that Hastings asked her for the DVLA change of ownership form, but it wasnt legible, 
so they had to ask again. I dont think was their fault that it wasnt clear enough for them to 
act on. They reasonably progressed the matter until they did receive a clear copy, and they 
then backdated the cancellation to the sale date. So I dont think that was unfair of them and 
I dont think that they have treated her unfairly or unreasonably in relation to other 
consumers. 
Mrs T wanted them to cancel right away because shed had a previous difficult situation after 
shed sold a car. So I do see that the situation must have been worrying for her. She wants 
to be compensated for what could have gone wrong during the period before Hastings 
cancelled the policy and backdated it. But in fact nothing did go wrong and so she has not 
suffered any loss because of that. And if there had been any issue with the cars ownership 
in the intervening period, her DVLA proof of change of ownership would have made it clear 
from when she was no longer responsible for the car.
She didnt think that she should have to pay a cancellation fee, but its clear from her policy 
and other documentation Hastings sent her when she took out the policy, what fee they 
would charge on cancellation. I think this was clear and not unreasonable. And in any event 
Hastings waived the cancellation fee. 
She complained that a Hastings staff member was threatening to her on the phone. Ive 
listened to all the call recordings Hastings have sent us. They are with more than one person 
and deal with both the claim and the complaint.  But I havent heard anything rude or 
threatening. I think the staff in those calls were polite and dealt reasonably with her 
complaint. 
Mrs T says Hastings havent sent the right call. But Hastings say they havent been able to 
trace any other calls. The investigator provided Mrs T with a timeline of the calls and asked 
her to give us more information to help Hastings trace any other call. But Mrs T hasnt done 
so and has asked us to decide on the information we have. Without listening to a call I cant 
decide if it was threatening, so I cant say that Hastings have done anything wrong there. 
Hastings accepted that they could have dealt with some aspects of their service better, but I 
think that theyve resolved things fairly and their offer of compensation is reasonable and 
does fairly reflect the inconvenience Mrs T had in cancelling her policy. This means I dont 
require Hastings to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
