DRN-3046097
The complaint
Mr A complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided him with loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided loans to Mr A as follows: 
Loan Date taken Loan status Number of 
monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly  
repayment*
1 27 March 2015 Repaid (when loan 2 
taken out).36 £3,000 £210.93
2 November 2015 Outstanding 42 £5,000 £309.30
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided Mr A with the loans and she asked Everyday Loans to put things right. 
Everyday Loans didnt agree with the investigators assessment. The complaint came to me 
to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr A would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did Everyday 
Loans make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr A 
irresponsibly. The lender was required to carry out an affordability check. The checks had 
to be borrower focussed  so Everyday Loans had to think about whether repaying the loan 
sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr A.
Everyday Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr A would be able repay his loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Everyday 
Loans had to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, 
the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts and the borrowers overall financial 
circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Everyday Loans was required to establish whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loan  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case.
This is because the regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint. 
Before providing each loan, Everyday Loans asked Mr A for information about his income 
and expenditure. It also obtained a credit report and reviewed bank statements from Mr A 
and used statistical information to help build a detailed picture of Mr As financial situation. 
From what Ive seen, I think the checks that Everyday Loans carried out before it agreed to 
lend to Mr A were, broadly speaking, reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances. So 
I've thought carefully about whether the lending decisions made by Everyday Loans were 
fair.
Loan 1
Everyday Loans gathered information that showed Mr As actual income from his various 
jobs in March 2015 was around £1,789 in total. The previous month it saw that he had been 
paid around £1,649. So its unclear to me why Everyday Loans recorded his income as 
£2,041 in its affordability assessment when the evidence it saw on the bank statements it 
obtained from Mr A suggested a lower figure. I think our investigator was right to point this 
out - although I think its fair to say that Ive included all the salary credits shown on Mr As 
February and March 2015 bank statements and arrived a slightly higher figure than our 
investigator worked out. 
But even so, had Everyday Loans used a more accurate income figure to work out its 
affordability assessment, by my reckoning, it looks like this shouldve shown that Mr A would 
most likely have had around £259 spare cash each month after taking out loan 1 and using it 
as planned. I think, broadly speaking, that seems a reasonable amount to cover unplanned spending or 
emergencies arising. So, I think it wouldve looked like the loan was potentially affordable for 
Mr A. But Everyday Loans had to consider more than just a pounds and pence approach to 
this lending and think about whether it could safely say that the loan looked sustainably 
affordable for Mr A over the whole three year loan term. 
And whilst I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans has said, I dont think that 
Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision on this occasion. 
Everyday Loans had information showing that Mr As average take home pay from 
both his jobs was approximately £1,719 in the two months running up to him taking out 
this loan. After taking out this loan and using it to repay the credit debts Mr A told 
Everyday Loans it was intended to clear, Mr As new total monthly credit repayments 
would be around £476.77. This meant that he would be spending approximately 27% 
of his income on servicing debt. 
I agree with our investigator that this was such a significant proportion of Mr As 
monthly income it couldnt reasonably say that it was likely that Mr A would be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way. And as well as this, I think Everyday Loans was 
able to see that Mr A had already been struggling to manage his money. The 
information Everyday Loans saw on Mr As credit report showed he was making 
payments to a debt collector, he had two credit cards and had used most of the 
available credit offered they offered and he owed £4,839 to two mail order agencies. 
The amount he owed on revolving credit accounts at the time he took out loan 1 was 
£7,987. So, even allowing for the debt consolidation, this still meant he had a 
significant amount of outstanding debt. And taking out loan 1 didnt improve the 
amount of spare cash Mr A would have each month  I think he would likely be slightly 
worse off in cash terms (and Everyday Loans own affordability assessment shows this 
too). 
So its hard to see how taking out this new loan with Everyday Loans was going to be 
enough to enable Mr A to make any significant overall improvement in his financial 
situation. I think, taking all this into account, Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have 
been aware that taking further, costly lending was unlikely to help Mr A and more likely 
to potentially increase his indebtedness over the longer term. 
So, I am planning on upholding Mr As complaint that he should not have been given loan 1.
Loan 2
Everyday Loans income and expenditure assessment suggested that this loan would leave 
Mr A with enough disposable income to ensure that the loan would be affordable for him. It 
relied on his income being around £1,997  which I think was a fair figure to use as it was 
borne out by the information on Mr As bank statements. His rent was unchanged at £383 
per month. Everyday Loans assessed Mr As living costs around £699 (based on 35% of his 
income which I think was reasonable) and allowed for the amount he was currently spending 
on his existing credit (around £593.24 monthly).
Everyday Loans gathered information showing that taking out loan 2 and using it as planned 
to pay other debt would leave Mr A around £60 per month better off and that he should have 
around £382 spare cash each month.
But I dont think it made a fair lending decision when it decided to provide loan 2.Taking the same approach as I did when thinking about loan 1, I can see that the amount of 
£533 that Mr A would be likely be paying each month to his creditors was still around 27% of 
the disposable income Everyday Loans worked out that Mr A would likely have. I think that 
Everyday Loans should have realised that this was such a significant proportion of his 
income that keeping up the monthly repayments was likely to be difficult for Mr A  
especially bearing in mind that Mr A had signed up to make this level of repayments for the 
next three and a half years. 
Also, since hed taken out loan 1, Mr As total indebtedness had increased and I think 
Everyday Loans should have been particularly concerned to see that the balances 
outstanding on the same credit cards that were around their limit when Mr A had taken out 
loan 1 were both still around the card limits  even though the credit limit on one of those 
cards had been increased by £250. And Everyday Loans was able to see from its credit 
checks that Mr A had also taken out a new credit card within the previous three months and 
already taken full advantage of its £300 credit limit. He still owed money to a debt recovery 
agent  and the amount had increased significantly since loan 1 suggesting that Mr A had 
faced some payment problems on that account. 
I dont think Everyday Loans wouldve seen anything else on Mr As bank statements to 
reassure it that he was in control of his finances  he wasnt always able to stay in credit 
(even though he had no overdraft set up), a returned direct debit can be seen and Mr A was 
incurring bank charges. He was still paying a loan taken out with another high cost lender 
that he was paying when he took out loan 1. 
Thinking about all of this information and keeping in mind that Mr A was returning to 
Everyday Loans to borrow a substantially larger loan than he had taken out just eight months 
or so earlier, to consolidate debt a second time, I think Everyday Loans should have 
recognised the signs that he was in serious financial difficulty and struggling to manage his 
money problems.
I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised that loan 2 was unlikely to be sustainably 
affordable over the loan term  irrespective of Mr As debt consolidation plans. So I dont 
think it shouldve been provided to Mr A. 
For these reasons, Im planning to uphold Mr As complaint about loan 2.  
I havent seen anything which makes me think that Everyday Loans acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr A in some other way. But taking everything into account, I dont 
think Everyday Loans should have agreed to provide the loans to Mr A. 
As Mr A has been further indebted with expensive loans that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what Everyday Loans did 
wrong. So, as things stand, I think Everyday Loans needs to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr A has nothing further to add and is happy for me to proceed.
Ive heard nothing further from Everyday Loans and deadline for responses has now expired. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr A to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not 
have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr A shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount he borrowed. 
Everyday Loans should: 
add up the total amount of money Mr A received as a result of having been given 
loans 1 and 2. The repayments Mr A made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr A having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr A keeping in mind its obligation 
to treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr As credit file regarding the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr A. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 15 
October 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman