The complaint
Mrs S complains about how The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc dealt with a request to transfer 
funds to a family member. Shes also unhappy with the service she received.
Mrs S is represented by her son in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by her directly.
What happened
Mrs S held a current account with RBS for many years. Her son, Mr S1, holds a Power of 
Attorney (POA) on her account as, due to her age and health, she requires support in 
dealing with financial matters.
On 18 July 2019 Mrs S attended an RBS branch in order to transfer £20000 from her 
account to a family member overseas. Mr S1 attended the branch to assist her in making the 
money transfer. She said she was intending to gift the money she wanted to transfer to 
another son, Mr S2, in order to assist him and his family with a business venture.
Mrs S said she performed some basic fund transfers successfully in branch. However, when 
she attempted to transfer money to Mr S2 she was asked questions about the transaction by 
the bank teller. Mrs S said she provided all identification documents requested and 
answered the questions she was asked correctly. 
While in branch it became apparent that the bank account information Mrs S had for Mr S2 
was incorrect. So, Mr S1 contacted Mr S2 over the telephone to confirm the correct details. 
During that process there was a change in bank teller. So, when Mrs S returned to the 
counter with the correct account information, the branch manager took over the transaction. 
Mrs S said the branch manager was abrupt, rude and overly challenging regarding the 
transfer she wanted to make. She said Mr S1 was answering questions on her behalf and 
was told to allow her to answer directly. Mrs S said she was taken into a separate room and 
interrogated about the circumstances of the transfer in the absence of Mr S1. She said this 
caused significant distress. 
Afterwards, Mrs S said the branch manager advised he wasnt prepared to make the transfer 
on her behalf as there were red flags present. Mrs S said she wasnt told what these red 
flags were and she left the branch without making the transfer.
Later that day Mrs S said police attended Mr S1s address. The branch visit was discussed. 
But the police left without taking any further action. So Mrs S complained to RBS about what 
had happened.
When RBS formally responded to Mrs S complaint it told her it had thoroughly investigated 
what had happened in branch. And it said it had had legitimate concerns about the 
DRN-1347070circumstances of the transfer shed asked it to make. It said its concerns hadnt been 
resolved in branch. So, it said it declined to make the transfer, which it felt had been in the 
best interests of Mrs S. Overall, RBS said it felt it had followed the correct security 
processes. So, it didnt uphold Mrs S complaint.
But Mrs S wasnt happy with RBS response to her complaint. She said shed been caused 
significant trouble and upset by what had happened, which hadnt been adequately 
recognised by RBS. So she referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator assessed the information Mrs S and RBS had provided. They empathised 
with Mrs S, but thought RBS had dealt with this complaint fairly. And they didnt think it had 
made in error in the action it took in branch. So, they didnt think it needed to do anything 
more. But Mrs S disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs S experienced when she attended her branch in 
July 2019. Its clear this was a very difficult situation for both her and RBS. And I appreciate 
Mrs S was upset by what happened. Indeed, I can see she feels very strongly about the 
issues raised in this complaint.
I can see Mrs S has gone to some trouble to provide our service with detailed submissions. I 
want to assure her that Ive read everything shes sent us. I hope she will understand if I 
dont address every comment shes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I 
consider to be key to this complaint; namely whether RBS made a mistake, or treated her 
unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. 
Ill say at the outset I dont consider the status of the POA Mr S1 holds in this case to be in 
question. RBS has never disputed the validity of the attorneyship; indeed, Im satisfied that 
Mr S1 has previously exercised his power as an attorney. And Ive no doubt that he was 
legally entitled, as an attorney, to give instructions on Mrs S account on her behalf. But that 
wasnt the problem here. Ill explain why.
Banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts and their 
money  particularly when a customer is elderly and vulnerable. This is as important for the 
bank as it is for its customers. To do so a bank must be vigilant to transactions that may 
raise concerns. And it may decline to process a money transfer request if its concerns arent 
resolved.
As set out in the background to this complaint, Mrs S wanted to transfer £20000 to Mr S2. 
That was a substantial amount of money and it was an out of character transaction. I say this 
because Mrs S account, up to that point, had been mainly used to make direct debit 
payments and other typical household transactions.  
Given the above, RBS said it wanted to explore the reason for the transfer with Mrs S and 
ensure she was making the payment voluntarily and without coercion. And the only way to 
do that was to ask her questions about the transfer she wanted to make. I think this was 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
RBS said it became concerned that Mr S1 answered the majority of the questions it asked 
about the transaction. And RBS also told our service that Mrs S was becoming confused by 
what was happening.I appreciate that Mr S1 was trying to assist Mrs S given his status as an Attorney of her 
account. However, I can also understand why it would be important for RBS to want Mrs S to 
answer its questions directly. 
RBS said Mrs S was asked to accompany the branch manager into a separate room in the 
absence of Mr S1 to enable him to speak to her independently. RBS explained that this was 
recommended after it took advice about the situation. In the overall circumstances I dont 
think this was unreasonable given the concerns RBS had here. 
Mr S1 told our service that his mother was interrogated in an insensitive manner while in the 
separate room. Ive taken into account what both Mrs S and RBS have said about what 
happened. But I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that RBS acted oppressively 
or inappropriately as has been suggested by Mr S1. So, I cant fairly conclude it did anything 
wrong.
RBS said it didnt feel able to process Mrs S transfer request as there were a number of red 
flags present. Thats ultimately a judgment call for it to make based on its experience, what it 
felt about what it saw in branch, and typical customer behaviour.
I can understand why Mrs S would want RBS to explain what those red flags were. But, 
unsurprisingly, thats commercially sensitive information and RBS is under no obligation to 
tell Mrs S its reasons, as much as she wants to know. Our service cant tell it to share this 
information with her and I dont think itd be fair for me to ask RBS to elaborate any further 
on the information its already provided about the concerns it had regarding this transfer 
request. 
What I can tell Mrs S though is that, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that RBS had 
reason to be concerned about the transaction and whether she was acting voluntarily. I dont 
believe there was any coercion here but I can understand why RBS had the concerns it did.
In declining to make the transfer Im satisfied RBS acted in line with the terms and conditions 
of Mrs S account, which clearly outline that it can limit the use of services if it believes thats 
appropriate in order to protect a customers account. Mrs S accepted these terms when she 
opened the account. So it is fair and reasonable RBS now relies on these terms and 
conditions given each agreed to contract on this basis. 
In this case Im satisfied that the action RBS took was in efforts to protect Mrs S account. 
So, taking everything into consideration, I cant fairly conclude that the way in which it 
responded during the branch visit was unreasonable in the circumstances.
Ill turn now to Mrs S' concerns about what happened following the branch visit.
I appreciate how Mrs S would be upset that the police visited Mr S1 following her branch visit 
in July 2019. And I can, of course, imagine the distress this caused Mr S1 who was only 
trying to assist Mrs S in his capacity as an Attorney of her account. However, RBS has 
explained that it contacted the police to explain its concerns about the transaction as part of 
its Police Banking Protocol having taken advice elsewhere first. 
Our service isnt the regulator of banks. So, we cant comment on whether RBS Police 
Banking Protocol is right or tell it to adopt changes to that policy. But Im satisfied overall that 
RBS followed that policy properly and this is why it raised its concerns with the police. Like 
our investigator Im concerned RBS concerns here were legitimate. And Im not persuaded 
that contacting the police was a malicious action on its part.I understand Mrs S feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and I realise 
she will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying to 
resolve her dispute with RBS informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Mrs S any 
further with this.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman