DRN-2380645
The complaint
W complains that Paymentsense Limited was responsible for assisting it in ensuring it was 
PCI DSS (payment card industry date security standard (PCI DSS) compliant. 
But W says Paymentsense Limited didnt take sufficient action to let it W know there was a 
problem with its compliance  and therefore W unfairly received charges in relation to this.
What happened
W is a business, which in addition to accepting cash payments, accepts payments from its 
customers by card. As a merchant taking payments by card, W has a duty to make sure its 
customers personal information, as well as their payment details, are kept secure. To ensure 
this duty is met, W needs to be compliant with payment card industry data security standards 
(PCI DSS). 
It is Ws responsibility to be compliant with the above standards. But, W paid Paymentsense 
a fee to enrol in its PCI scheme. The scheme is mandatory  and is there to assist a 
merchant in ensuring compliance with the PCI DSS. 
W said it didnt receive any information from Paymentsense alerting it to action W needed to 
take to be PCI DSS compliant. So, W had assumed it was compliant with the relevant 
standards.
But, in September 2019, W said it became aware it had been incurring PCI DSS non-
compliance fees since March 2018. It raised this with Paymentsense, and asked how it could 
go about having these fees removed. Paymentsense told W it could not remove the charges. 
Paymentsense said it was the duty of the merchant, in this case W, to be compliant with the 
necessary standards. And W had not completed the tasks it needed to, to show compliance. 
Paymentsense said it had done what it needed to do as part of the PCI scheme. It said it had 
let W know, via email, there was action it needed to take to become PCI DSS compliant. It 
explained it had sent emails to the email address detailed on Ws account. Because W didnt 
take any action, the non-compliance fees were charged. Because of this, Paymentsense 
said it wouldnt be refunding the majority of the non-compliance fees charged.
However, Paymentsense did say it could see that since W had raised the complaint, W had 
gone on to complete the compliance tasks. So, it said it would refund the last two fees 
charged. And it noted it had applied a refund for another service, Plus+, which W had said it 
wasnt aware it had, and hadnt used.
W didnt think Paymentsenses response to its complaint was fair. It felt Paymentsense 
should have taken further action to stop W incurring non-compliance fees. W said the email 
address Payment sense had sent emails to was an old one, and no longer in use. And, that 
when Paymentsense saw the actions it was asking W to complete werent done, it should 
have realised the emails werent being received by W. And it then should have tried to 
contact W using other contact details it had for W.
Because W remained unhappy, it referred its complaint to this service for an independent 
review. W felt Paymentsense should refund the fines charged  as well as the management 
fee for PCI DSS compliance.
Our investigator didnt think Ws complaint should be upheld. He said the terms of Ws 
agreement made it clear PCI enrolment was mandatory, and non-compliance fees could be 
passed on to the merchant, if there was a failure to comply. 
Our investigator was satisfied Paymentsense had sent emails to W alerting it on the need to 
take action in relation to compliance. He said Paymentsense had used the email address 
given to it when the account was set up  and none of these emails had bounced back. So, 
he felt Paymentsense had acted fairly in only using that method of contact in this case. 
W didnt agree. It reiterated that Paymentsense had a number of alterative contact methods 
it could have used to communicate with W, but it failed to do this. 
As W remained dissatisfied this complaint was referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied Paymentsenses offer to refund to two fees, and refund the 
payment for the Plus+ service is fair. So, I dont require it to do anything more. Ive explained 
why below.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Ws agreement. The terms and conditions of the 
merchant services agreement signed by W in January 2017, explains that enrolment in 
Paymentsenses PCI scheme is mandatory. 
Further information about PCI DSS is included in the merchant conditions booklet at section 
12.3. This section explains that W will need to attest compliance with the PCI DSS, by 
completing the PCI DSS compliance programme. And, if the merchant (W in this case) is 
deemed non-compliant it will be asked to remedy this and may be charged non-compliance 
fees.
In this case, neither party is disputing that W was non-compliant, until later in 2019, when W 
completed the relevant actions to attest compliance. So, in line with the above terms and 
conditions, Im satisfied its reasonable for Paymentsense to charge non-compliance fees for 
the period in which compliance was not present.
W has said that in this case, it doesnt consider this to be fair  because it wasnt aware of its 
non-compliance. It said Paymentsense didnt take enough action to let it know it needed to 
complete tasks. So, Ive considered whether Paymentsense did enough to alert W to the 
problem. And, based on the information Ive seen, I think it did.
I can see in February 2017 W made a request for a reminder of the username and password 
for the online PCI portal it needed to log in to  on which compliance could be attested. And 
Ive seen copies of the emails sent to W, in response to this request. The email containing the relevant username details explained that its Ws responsibility to 
update the email address on file once logged into the portal, to ensure the address on the 
system is for the person who will be responsible for attesting compliance.
 
This email also explains that if the relevant email address changes, this needs to be updated 
 otherwise key information could be missed by W. I think this makes it sufficiently clear that 
the email address on the account will be used as the primary communication method  and 
that W was made aware of how important the correct email address was. 
Paymentsense has also provided screen shots of its system, which shows the email address 
for the account was updated after the username and password reminders were given. These 
screen shots also show regular emails were sent to W, from early 2017, to alert W that 
action needed to be taken in relation to PCI DSS compliance. These emails were sent on a 
monthly basis. And were sent to the email address that had been updated and noted on the 
account. Given this information, I do think Paymentsense provided sufficient reminders to W 
of the need to take action  and it did so in line with the email address it had on file. So, I 
dont think Paymentsense did anything wrong here, by using this as the method of 
communication with W.
W has said that as it hadnt responded to Paymentsense, based on those emails, for around 
18 months, Paymentsense should have been aware the information it was giving W wasnt 
getting through to it. And, that it should have used another method of communication, to 
ensure the information did reach W. 
Ive thought carefully about this. But I dont think that in this case, Paymentsense acted 
unfairly by solely using the email address to communicate. The screen shots Paymentsense 
provided to me show the emails were sent and give no evidence to show the emails werent 
being delivered  none of them bounced back. So, I dont think Paymentsense would have 
been reasonably aware they werent reaching W. 
Because of this, I wouldnt have expected Paymentsense to have tried alternative methods 
of communication. It was using the email address given on the account. And the information 
provided to W made it clear of the need to be compliant, that email communication was 
used, and that providing up to date information was important. So, I dont think at that point 
Paymentsense needed to do anything more.
In October 2019, Paymentsense said it was aware W had now completed compliance. And 
that because of this, it was willing to offer a refund of the last two fines. It also mentioned 
some action unrelated to the compliance fees  that it would credit Ws account with a refund 
for another service W wasnt aware it had, or used. Ive thought about whether this action is 
fair. And Im satisfied it is. Paymentsense has recognised that compliance was completed, 
and it took action to acknowledge that. So, Im satisfied this was a reasonable resolution to 
the complaint W raised. 
My final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that Paymentsense Limiteds offer to refund two 
non-compliance fees, and the Plus+ service is fair. 
If Paymentsense Limited hasnt already done this, it should do so within 28 days of being 
told W accepts my decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman