DRN-2399021
The complaint
Miss G complains that J D Williams & Company Limited continued to apply interest to her 
account after she had informed it of her financial difficulties and set up a payment plan.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. 
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. I set out my reasons as follows:
Miss G entered into a credit agreement with J D Williams and agreed to its terms and 
conditions. These included the requirement to make the minimum payment due. The 
terms said that in certain circumstances payments less than the minimum could be 
agreed but that interest and charges would continue to be applied.
When Miss G contacted J D Williams about her financial difficulties we would expect 
it to work with her, but it wasnt required to stop charging interest.
J D Williams set up a repayment plan allowing Miss G to make reduced monthly 
payments which I found reasonable. The charges were explained and there was no 
suggestion that interest would be frozen. As I didnt find that Miss G was told interest 
would be frozen - and it wasnt a requirement - I didnt find that J D Williams did 
anything wrong by continuing to apply interest while the payment plan was in place.
After six months Miss G hadnt made much progress in reducing her debt as most of 
her monthly payment was being used to pay the interest. Miss G raised a complaint 
in July 2019 about charges still being applied to her account. As the plan had been in 
place for six months, and given the concerns raised by Miss G, I thought it would 
have been reasonable to review the repayment plan at that time.
The repayment plan was broken in July 2019, but I didnt think it fair to say that a 
default should have been applied straight away. Instead I thought a review should 
have taken place and based on that next steps taken regarding a further repayment 
plan or possible default.
I couldnt see that a review took place, but Miss Gs complaint was investigated. In 
the final response letter dated September 2019, it says that as a gesture of goodwill 
Miss Gs arrears were cleared. I thought this was reasonable.
Miss G was sent letters about the status of her account which asked her to get in 
touch. A default notice was issued in December 2019. At this time, I found it 
reasonable to say that the relationship had broken down. And given the missed 
payments and arrears on the account I found that taking steps to default the account 
at this time was reasonable. The account was defaulted in March 2020.
I didnt receive any new information in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further evidence was provided in response to my provisional decision, my decision 
hasnt changed. 
As I have previously explained I find that J D Williams took reasonable steps to assist 
Miss G in January 2019 by setting up a repayment plan. It wasnt required to freeze interest 
and it didnt say this would be done and therefore I do not find I can say it did anything wrong 
by continuing to apply interest at this time. While the repayment plan was maintained I find it 
reasonable that further action wasnt taken. 
After six months I think it would have been reasonable to review the plan (even if it was 
being maintained) and given Miss Gs complaint I think further action needed to take place at 
this time. However, I find it reasonable that J D Williams addressed Miss Gs complaint and 
continued to try to work with her to find a solution before action to apply a default started. 
When it was clear the relationship had broken down the process for applying a default 
began. I find this reasonable.
Therefore, I do not find that I can say J D Williams acted unfairly and I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about J D Williams & Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman