DRN-3988661
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by a business now part of Zurich Assurance Ltd 
(Zurich) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Because the event in question happened in 1990, there is very little information still available 
about what happened in this case.
What is known is that in May 1990 an amount of around £6,300 was transferred from Mr Ms 
DB pension scheme to a new personal pension.
At the time in question, Mr M was working as a financial adviser with the business now part 
of Zurich; he was licenced to advise on personal pensions; he was married; he was 26 years 
old; he was in good health; and he had no financial dependants.
Mr M complained to Zurich in 2021, via a representative, about the suitability of the advice 
he received. In summary he said that he was not a regulated financial adviser at the time, he 
was a trainee. He was approached by his manager at the time about taking advice about his 
pension and was told transferring would be the best option for him. He says he transferred 
his pension based on the advice he was given and he was not aware of the implications the 
transfer would have on his retirement.
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said that it didnt have any of the 
documentation from the time of the sale. But it said its records showed that Mr M was a fully 
trained adviser when he sold the pension plan to himself and completed the transfer from his 
DB scheme. It said it therefore believes Mr M fully understood the nature of the arrangement 
and so was able to make an informed decision.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr M referred his complaint to our service. An investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. In summary they said that the evidence from Zurich shows that 
Mr M was a trained adviser at the time; that Zurich had signed him off as competent to 
advise on personal pensions; and that he received commission for the transfer complained 
about. They said the pension transfer was completed during the period of The Pension 
Review  the industry wide review which looked at pension transfers between April 1988 and 
June 1994  and in 2011 Zurich confirmed to Mr Ms advisory firm at the time that his 
pension did not qualify for a review because no advice was given. 
They said because Mr M didnt challenge this at the time, this suggests Mr M accepted that 
he transferred his pension of his own accord.
The investigator went on to explain that they felt the transfer was financially viable taking 
account of the expected growth rates at the time and that it was likely in his best interests to 
transfer from a financial viability point of view. They said they didnt think that given the 
relatively low value of the transfer, giving up the spouses death benefit offered by Mr Ms DB 
scheme wouldve disadvantaged him. Overall they said they didnt think the transfer was 
unsuitable.
Mr M, through his representative disagreed. In summary he said:
He was new to the financial services industry, he had no prior financial experience 
and had only completed his training around six months prior to the transfer. His 
training was rushed and he did not have sufficient knowledge or experience to advise 
on a pension transfer at such an early stage in his employment.
He was licenced to advise on personal pensions, which are different to DB pensions, 
which shows he did not have specific detailed knowledge of DB pension schemes.
He was acting as an employee and disputes that he acted in his own capacity and 
that he was responsible for the transfer process.
He was coerced into transferring away by his supervisor to meet company targets.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, the complaint was 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The advice was provided by a business now part of Zurich in May 1990. At this time it was a 
member of the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). 
The LAUTRO rules included a Code of Conduct at Schedule 2 to the rules. This required 
advisers to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. Paragraph 
6 of the Code of Conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included that they 
should not:
Make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investments, or of any occupational or 
state pension; or
Advise the investor to convert, cancel or allow to lapse any investment contract, 
occupational or state pension, unless they genuinely believed it to be in the 
consumers best interest and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and 
disadvantages.
Paragraph 8 required an adviser to consider the investors financial position generally and to 
all other relevant circumstances - which included their rights under occupational and state 
pensions. It required them to recommend the contract from within the provider or marketing 
groups range which was most suited to the investor.So having considered the advice given to Mr M with this in mind and the evidence in this 
case, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by the 
investigator. My reasons are set out below.
Unfortunately due to the passage of time, Zurich no longer holds much information about 
what happened here. But this isnt perhaps surprising given things happened over 30 years 
ago and Mr M transferred his pension away from Zurich in 2011.
There is nevertheless important information about this case, which I cannot ignore. At the 
time of the event complained about, Mr M was working as a financial adviser with the 
business in question and was qualified in a number of areas, based on having passed the 
requisite training several months prior, including advising on personal pensions. So I think 
its reasonable to assume that Mr M wouldve possessed a reasonable amount of knowledge 
about personal pensions. And in my view, likely a greater level and depth of knowledge 
about the subject matter than the typical consumer at the time. Mr M might not have had any 
prior financial knowledge or experience before working as an adviser, and he might only 
have been recently qualified at the time in question. But he was deemed competent by his 
then employer to advise consumers on personal pensions. I think this more likely than not 
meant that Mr M understood the nature of a personal pension, the associated risks and also 
the fundamental difference between a personal pension and a DB or final salary pension 
scheme. I find it implausible that Mr Ms adviser training would not have dealt with the 
differences of these two types of pension.
So I think Mr M, more likely than not, understood the benefits available to him under his DB 
scheme and what he would be giving up by transferring to a personal pension arrangement 
instead. I think the very nature of his role at the time meant he was more likely than not in a 
position to make an informed decision about things.
Furthermore, Zurich has provided evidence, which indicates that Mr M was the adviser who 
carried out the transfer and sale of his personal pension  he effectively sold it to himself. 
Zurichs supporting evidence is that Mr M received commission for the sale. I think the 
evidence that Mr M is the adviser recorded as having received commission for the sale, is 
persuasive evidence that he carried things out himself. If he had received advice from 
someone else, I think its reasonable to assume that their name wouldve been the one 
recorded as having received the commission instead.
Im mindful too that in 2011 when Mr M transferred his pension from Zurich, it responded to a 
question about The Pension Review posed by the business Mr M transferred his pension to, 
by saying that Mr Ms pension did not qualify for a review because no advice was given. 
Unfortunately the other paperwork referred to in Zurichs written response isnt available, 
including the questionnaire Mr M wouldve had to complete. But I think this evidence 
supports my view that it was Mr M who conducted his own pension transfer and sale. Im not 
persuaded based on what Ive seen that Mr M received advice from Zurich and that it was 
this advice he relied upon in going ahead with things. 
Id add here that I think its likely Mr M wouldve been told in 2011 about Zurichs conclusions 
that he didnt qualify for a pension review. So if Mr M believed that he did receive advice, I 
think its reasonable to assume he wouldve queried things at this point.  Because he didnt, 
in my view this is further evidence that Mr M arranged the transfer himself and that he 
accepted this was the case. 
I can see Mr M has said that he was pressured or coerced into carrying out the transfer of 
his pension to achieve company targets. But while I accept this is possible, Ive not seen anything else to support what Mr M says. So I cant say this is more likely than not what 
happened here.
Taking everything into account, I think it was Mr M himself who carried out the transfer of his 
DB pension scheme benefits to a personal pension. Im not persuaded that he received 
advice to do so from Zurich at the time. And given Mr Ms status as a qualified financial 
adviser with the firm at the time, I think more likely than not he understood the nature and 
risks of what he was doing, including the benefits he was giving up by transferring, and so 
was in an informed position.
Notwithstanding the above, even if I accept that Mr M did receive advice from Zurich at the 
time to transfer the benefits from his DB pension to a personal pension arrangement, Im 
nevertheless not persuaded that any advice was likely unsuitable.
For example, looking firstly at the financial viability of the transfer. In this case the advice 
was given during the period of the industry-wide Pensions Review, so the rates the regulator 
published for Financial Viability Tests are directly relevant here. Because of the lack of 
paperwork from the time, the investment return (critical yield) required to match the 
occupational pension at retirement isnt known. 
But I have calculated that the upper limit the regulator gave for a Financial Viability Test was 
13.4% per year for 23 years to retirement in this case (assumed retirement age of 50.)
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 13%, the middle 
projection rate 10.75%, and the lower projection rate 8.5%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr M's 
likely attitude to risk, and also the term to retirement. I think given that Mr M was young and 
he had many years of investment opportunity ahead of him, he was likely prepared to accept 
at least a medium risk attitude to investing. So given this, I dont think the available evidence 
suggests that Mr M was likely to receive benefits of a materially lower overall value than the 
occupational scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with a medium attitude to 
risk. It seems to me that there was likely potential to improve on Mr Ms retirement benefits 
given the expected investment returns at the time and the term to retirement. So I cant say 
that a transfer wasnt in his best interests from a financial viability point of view.
In terms of the other considerations -  I accept that Mr M was married at the time, so the 
spouses benefit provided by the DB scheme wouldve been of benefit to him and his spouse. 
But on the other hand, Mr M was young, he was in good health and it doesnt appear that the 
value of his pension benefits based on the transfer value was high. He also had the potential 
for many years of further pension accrual ahead of him. So given this and the fact that the 
personal pension allowed him to pass on whatever remained of his pension to the 
beneficiary of his choice on his death, Im not persuaded losing the death benefits through 
the DB scheme disadvantaged Mr M to the extent that any advice he might have received to 
transfer was unsuitable.
Overall, for the reasons above, Im not persuaded that any advice Mr M did receive in 
relation to his DB pension transfer was unsuitable in any event. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint  so I make no 
award in Mr Ms favour.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman