DRN-1674517
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out their original mortgage in 1986 but didnt buy PPI at that time. It was 
when they arranged a further advance in 1991 that they took out PPI to cover both the main 
mortgage and further advance. Although it was a joint mortgage, the policy was set up just to 
cover Mr W for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W say they werent aware that PPI had been added to the mortgage account, 
meaning it was added without their knowledge or consent.
Nationwide no longer has any documentation from the sale, which isnt surprising given how 
long ago it took place. All it has are some basic electronic records showing start and end 
dates of the mortgage, further borrowing and PPI, and the costs. This does make the 
complaint more difficult to decide. In reaching my decision I have looked at the evidence that 
we do have, as well as what I consider is most likely to have happened.
From what we know of Nationwides sales processes at the time, the PPI was normally 
presented as optional. I havent seen any evidence to lead me to conclude that something 
different happened in this case.
Mr W says he was made redundant in 1994 but didnt claim on the policy, because he didnt 
know he had it. The policy had a deferment period of 90 days, meaning that you couldnt 
claim for the first 90 days of any unemployment. Mr W says he was unemployed for three 
months, so that might be the reason that he didnt claim. Mr W also says that he bought into 
another business in advance of being made redundant, which might be another reason why 
he didnt make a claim. The policy was cancelled in 1994 around the same time as Mr W 
became a shareholder in the new company. Its possible that the policy was no longer 
suitable for Mr Ws situation, which is why the PPI was cancelled.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr and Mrs W have said and have no doubt that they 
have provided their genuine recollection of events. But the sale was a long time ago and so 
it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Ws memory has faded. On balance, I consider it is more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W were given a choice about having the policy. It 
seems to me that they probably decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have to, even if 
they no longer remember doing so.
I dont know if Nationwide advised Mr and Mrs W to buy the policy or not. If it was an advised 
sale then, in recommending the policy to them, Nationwide would have needed to ensure 
that it met Mr and Mrs Ws needs. And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at 
the time, the policy was suitable for them.
Mrs W was a housewife. So it makes sense that the policy was set up just to cover Mr W. Mr 
Ws employer would have given him six months full pay, followed by six months half pay, if 
he was off work sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
longer than Mr W would have received full pay for (the policy could have paid out for up to 
24 months).
Mr and Mrs W say they had some savings. But having the policy would have allowed them to 
retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. 
Overall, I think that Mr and Mrs W had a need for the cover and could have benefitted from 
it.
I consider that Mr and Mrs W would have known something about the PPI  that it would 
have covered the mortgage repayments if Mr W was unable to work due to accident, 
sickness or unemployment  because I dont think theyd have decided to buy it without 
knowing anything at all about it.
Mr and Mrs W say they werent aware of the cost of the policy at the time. It cost £25.80 per 
month and provided a benefit of £657 per month for up to 24 months. Looking at the couples 
circumstances at the time, and particularly Mr Ws income, I dont think the cost would have 
put them off taking out the policy. Also, the cost would have been detailed in their annual 
mortgage statements.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, especially about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr W wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr and Mrs W had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, 
I dont think that further information would have caused them to change their minds.
This means that Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
W. But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because: 
When the policy was sold, Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and 
Mrs W about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman