DRN-3027325
The complaint
Mr J complains about how American International Group UK Limited (AIG) has handled a 
claim he made under his mobile phone insurance policy.
References to AIG include its agents.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr J made a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy with AIG. The 
camera on his mobile phone was damaged. 
AIG accepted Mr Js claim. It told him that he could try to get the phone repaired (by paying 
an excess of £50) or exchange it (for an excess of £100). AIG said the only option for repair 
that was available would involve Mr J travelling to a store and the closest was 67 miles 
away. It said there was usually an option to send someone around to Mr Js home to fix the 
phone but that wasnt currently available.
Mr J was concerned about having to travel so far to get his phone fixed. He told AIG he 
didnt drive and was worried about breaking the lockdown rules that were in place because 
of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr J asked AIG if it would consider lowering the excess for a 
door-step exchange from £100 to £50.
AIG didnt agree to lowering the excess if Mr J chose to exchange the phone. It said its 
terms and conditions make it clear that repair options werent guaranteed. 
Mr J remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator asked 
AIG if it would consider reducing the excess for exchanging the phone from £100 to £75. But 
AIG said it wasnt willing to do so. It said Mr J was able to travel to have his phone repaired 
because the Covid restrictions in place specified that people should stay at home apart from 
essential journeys and mobile phones are deemed essential for many day to day tasks.
 
AIG said there was never any guarantee that a repair option would be available. Mr J was 
offered the options that were available at the time and these differed on a daily basis.
Our investigator considered what both parties had said and gave her view that Mr Js 
complaint should be upheld. She didnt think it was fair or reasonable for AIG to expect Mr J 
to break lockdown rules and travel over 60 miles on public transport to get his phone fixed. 
She didnt agree that it would be considered essential travel, given that only the camera part 
of the phone was broken. She recommended AIG offer Mr J the option of someone going to 
his home to fix the phone if this was now available or send him a stamped-addressed 
padded envelope to enable him to send his device to the repairer.
AIG disagreed with our investigators view. It said handsets couldnt be sent in the normal 
post in a padded envelope as they were likely to get more damaged. The mail in repair is 
done by courier but this wasnt an option for the type of policy Mr J held. It said it could only 
offer the options available for the cover that Mr Js policys terms and conditions stipulate. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
 
I issued a provisional decision on 30 July 2021 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mr Js complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules say that the insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly.
The terms of the policy say that if the phone is damaged we will either provide you with a 
replacement phone or will arrange for your phone to be repaired, (if the repair option is 
available). This will be discussed with you when you make your claim.
AIG says that the wording if the repair option is available make it clear that a repair cant be 
guaranteed. It says that when a frontline agent enters the damage details into the computer 
system, the options for that specific customer are shown to the agent to relay back to the 
customer. If there are no repair options available, the system knows not to offer them, and 
the agent isnt able to propose any other choices to the customer. 
From what I can see, Mr J was given a repair option which would suggest that AIGs system 
hadnt determined that the damage couldnt be repaired or was beyond economical repair. 
The issue seems to be that there werent any available appointments for the phone to be 
repaired in Mr Js home and the only walk-in option was over 60 miles away. 
AIG says it didnt suggest Mr J break lockdown rules, but a mobile phone is a vital lifeline for 
a lot of people and travelling was allowed where essential. Given that only the camera part 
of the phone was damaged, I think it was reasonable for Mr J to have been concerned that 
travelling to get it fixed would be considered to be in breach of lockdown rules. 
AIG says that its silver policy gives the option for a handset to be collected by courier to be 
inspected and possibly repaired. But it says this option wasnt available to Mr J because he 
holds a platinum policy. 
While AIG hasnt specifically said that fewer repair options were available to Mr J because of 
the Covid pandemic, it has referred to store closures (due to Covid) and repair agents 
members of staff having to self-isolate because of Covid. I appreciate certain circumstances 
were likely to have been beyond AIGs control. But it still had an obligation to handle Mr Js 
claim promptly and fairly. And I think it could have done more to fulfil this requirement.
Im satisfied that travelling to get his phone repaired wasnt an option for Mr J when the 
lockdown restrictions were in place. Given that there were also no available appointments for 
Mr Js phone to be fixed at his home, I think it would have been fair and reasonable for AIG 
to have offered for Mr Js phone to be picked up by courier. 
 
Although restrictions on travel are no longer in place, Mr J has told us his phone still isnt 
fixed. While it might now be possible for Mr J to travel to a store, in light of whats happened, 
I think it would be fair for AIG to arrange for the phone to be repaired at Mr Js home or 
arrange for it to be collected by courier and sent off for repair. 
The delay in settling Mr Js claim has also resulted in Mr J losing out on the use of his 
camera, which has no doubt been frustrating for him. So, I also intend to award Mr J £50 to 
compensate him for the trouble and upset hes experienced. This could be achieved by 
waiving the excess if his phone can be repaired or reducing the excess from £100 to £50 if 
its necessary for the phone to be replaced.I set out what I intended to direct AIG to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mr J said he was happy with what Id said in my provisional decision. AIG didnt respond with 
any additional information or comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything else for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
AIG should:
Arrange for Mr Js phone to be repaired* at his home OR
Arrange for Mr Js phone to be collected from his home by courier, repaired* and 
returned to him AND
Waive the £50 repair excess to compensate Mr J for trouble and upset.
*if the phone cant be repaired, AIG should offer Mr J a replacement in line with the terms of 
the policy for a reduced excess of £50.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct American International 
Group UK Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman