DRN-3348638
The complaint
Mr T says Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr T took out a 12-month instalment loan for £1,000 from 118 118 Money on 12 August 
2020. The monthly repayment was £100.22 and the total repayable was £1,202.64.
Mr T says he wasnt asked to evidence his outgoings, or how much would be affordable for 
him each month and he has struggled to make the repayments. This has put a strain on his 
mental health and caused money problems.
Our adjudicator said Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. He thought 118 118 Moneys 
checks were proportionate, but they showed Mr T already had 15 credit accounts with 
balances and was spending more than 25% of his income to service this debt. He said this 
indicated Mr T was struggling to manage his money and so 118 118 Money was wrong to 
lend to Mr T.
118 118 Money disagreed. It said that whilst Mr T needed to spend over 25% of his income 
each month on his credit commitments, he would still have over £700 of disposable income 
and so it maintains the loan was affordable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website
and Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when 118 118 Money lent to Mr T required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability
assessment or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So 118 118 Money had to think about
whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse
consequences for Mr T. In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the
repayments on Mr T.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to
make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate
check shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether 118 118 Money did what it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Mr T. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following 
questions:
- did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Ts loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did 118 118 Money make fair lending decisions?
- did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see 118 118 Money asked for some information from Mr T before it approved the
loan. It asked for details of his monthly income and his monthly expenditure. It says it
checked these against reasonable average figures  but it hasnt made clear if this meant it
amended what Mr T had declared. It asked about his residential status and whether he had
dependents. It asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation. It also 
checked Mr Ts credit file to understand his credit history and current commitments. From 
these checks combined 118 118 Money concluded Mr T had enough monthly disposable 
income to afford to repay the loan.
I think these checks were proportionate given the term and value of the loan and its monthly 
repayments. But I am not persuaded the lender made a fair lending decision based on the 
information it gathered. It could see from the credit check it completed that Mr T already had 
21 active accounts and was spending around £820 each month on these credit 
commitments. Giving this loan increased the amount of his income Mr T would need to 
spend to service his debt to almost a third. I think 118 118 Money ought to have realised this 
meant there was a risk Mr T would not be able to sustainably repay his loan  that is, without 
needing to borrow to repay or without suffering some other adverse financial consequence. I 
note he went on to have problems making his repayments only four months into the term of 
the loan.
118 118 Money argues that Mr T would still have over £700 disposable income. But I dont 
think that negates its need to consider that Mr Ts credit file showed he had a high number of 
relatively low value credit accounts, often opened one month after the other, suggesting he 
was most likely in a cycle of borrowing to repay. And in these circumstances I dont think it 
was responsible to further extend Mr Ts indebtedness. I do note the purpose of the loan was 
debt consolidation, but 118 118 Money hasnt shown that it asked which debts Mr T was 
going to settle.   
   
It follows I think 118 118 Money was wrong to give this loan to Mr T.  I havent seen any 
evidence 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way towards Mr T. 
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr T to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have 
been given to him. So he has lost out and 118 118 Money needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mr T
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ts loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then 118 118 Money should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 Money
should give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ts complaint. Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, must 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman