DRN-1467496
The complaint
Mr E complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr E took out a Tesco credit card in 2003. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy to 
protect his credit card monthly repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt feel we should uphold Mr Es complaint. Mr E disagrees with our 
adjudicators view. 
Mr E is mainly concerned that he didn't want PPI at the time. He said he didn't think he 
needed it, but it was strongly implied (possibly in a phone call or on the application) that he 
needed to accept PPI in order to have the best chance of obtaining the credit card he was 
applying for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint.
Mr E took out his credit card with PPI by filling in a postal application  which I've seen. 
Ive taken into account that Mr E said he felt pressured into taking out PPI even though he 
didnt want or need it. But I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me to be able safely 
to say that was the case, just based on what Mr E says. 
I say this because the application form was sent to Mr E to complete at home. And although 
Mr E says that hed spoken to a sales person and felt his application was more likely to be 
approved if he took out PPI, I think that the application form made it clear he had a choice.
PPI is mentioned as one of the features available with the card and it says here: We 
strongly recommend you take out this cover. For cover, just tick this box.
So I think its fair to say that Mr E wouldve been able to see that having PPI was something 
Tesco thought was a good idea for credit card applicants. 
But this was standard wording on a pre-printed form. And I think the wording on the 
application form makes it clear that it was up to Mr E to say if he wanted to take out PPI with 
his credit card. Saying something was strongly recommended isnt wording that suggested 
PPI wasnt optional.
Mr E has ticked the PPI option. 
On balance, I find that Tesco made Mr E aware that PPI was optional and it was added to 
his account when he chose to have it. 
Tesco didnt personally advise Mr E to take out PPI, so it didnt have to check the policy was 
suitable for him. But it still shouldve given Mr E enough information to make a proper 
decision about whether PPI was right for him. And if it didnt do this, I have to decide if I think 
this makes any overall difference to Mr E. 
Mr E was eligible for the policy when he took it out. 
Looking at the other means Mr E couldve relied on to make his credit card repayments if he 
couldnt work I think he couldve benefitted from having the PPI. 
Ive taken into account that Mr E told us his employer wouldve paid him some sick pay. But 
the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per accident and sickness claim. So the PPI 
provided significantly better protection than he couldve relied on getting through his 
employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mr E with a useful benefit at 
a difficult time  especially bearing in mind that he mightve had some extra costs as a result 
of being sick or disabled. 
PPI couldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr E lost his job and 
became unexpectedly unemployed and he met the requirements to make a claim.
Mr E mentioned having some savings at the time. But I dont know if he wouldve always had 
savings to rely on. And the amount of savings hes mentioned isnt enough to make me think 
that the PPI wouldnt still have been useful. Mr E told us he applied for this credit card for the 
purpose of refinancing or consolidating other debts. So its possible that at the time he took 
out this PPI he might not have had as much spare money as he thought when he made his 
complaint  although its completely understandable he may have forgotten his exact 
financial situation at the time.
I've taken into account that Mr E told us he was able to clear his card balance in full using a 
redundancy payment he received. But this doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold. Mr E 
couldnt have relied on getting this money and having it available to pay his credit card when 
he took out the policy. When he signed up for the PPI, the policy offered Mr E substantially 
better financial protection than he was able to rely on at the time. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, I think Mr E could have had a use for 
the policy.
Its possible some information Tesco gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. There were some policy limitations and exclusions. But it doesnt look as if those 
applied in Mr Es case. 
So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve 
affected his decision to have PPI.
I dont think its likely that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr E at the time he bought the 
policy. 
But from what Ive seen, Mr E hasnt suggested that he couldnt afford the monthly 
premiums. And he chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to - so it seems Mr E wanted this 
type of cover at the time. 
Looked at overall, I think Mr E still wouldve decided to buy the policy if hed been better 
informed as it provided him with worthwhile protection. 
I dont think its likely that better information wouldve put him off buying it.
Ive taken into account what happened when Mr E tried to claim under the policy. But that 
doesnt mean that PPI must have been mis-sold when he took it out and it isnt a reason for 
me to uphold his complaint. 
If Mr E wants to complain separately about a failed claim then in the first instance he will 
need to raise his concerns with Tesco Personal Finance PLC and/or the insurer. He can 
contact this service if he is uncertain how to do this. 
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC told Mr E it would pay back some of the cost of the PPI to 
him because: 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr E about that. 
Because Tesco Personal Finance PLC didnt tell Mr E, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco Personal Finance PLC has basically offered to pay back the 
amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and 
I think that offer is fair in this case.
What  this means
Tesco Personal Finance PLC has to pay back to Mr E any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should also pay back to Mr E any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr E 
the difference between what Mr E owed and what he wouldve owed if the commission and 
profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should also pay Mr E 8%* simple interest if he paid off the 
credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr E can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But (if it hasnt already) Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mr E any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
And if it has already done this, then Tesco Personal Finance PLC doesnt need to do 
anything more to put things right for Mr E. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman