DRN-4446026
The complaint
Ms G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money she lost as part of a 
scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only refer to some key 
events here.
In 2022 Ms G saw an advert on a social media, in which a well-known financially orientated 
celebrity appeared to recommend an investment platform that I will call B. 
After getting in contact with B, it convinced Ms G that she should invest in the trading 
platform and explained how she could make money from trading using this platform. She 
therefore sent money to Crypto exchanges, bought Crypto and then sent it on to B. After a 
period of time Ms G tried to recover her funds from B but was unable to do so. At this point 
she seems to have been approached by another scammer, who persuaded her to make a 
further payment via transfer (again to a Crypto exchange) but instead of the funds being 
recovered, Ms G realised she had fallen for a different scam.
Ms G made the following transactions
Transaction 
NumberDate Amount Merchant Method of 
Payment
1 09/09/2022 £5,000 Crypto.com Card Payment
2 15/09/2022 £420 Credit Foris Dax Card Payment
3 20/09/2022 £5,000 Cro Malta Card Payment
4 19/10/2022 £2,986.71 Cro Malta Card Payment
5 20/10/2022 £2,003.16 Crypto Card Payment
6 21/10/2022 £10,300 Foris Dax Transfer
7 21/10/2022 £3,697.34 Crypto.com Card Payment
8 21/10/2022 £9,330.61 Crypto.com Card Payment
Ms G complained to Barclays and requested that the above transactions be refunded. After 
some back and forth, Barclays agreed that it should have intervened during the first 
transaction, so in response, it refunded 50% of the transfer with interest at 8% simple, 
alongside a payment of £100 for the way it investigated this matter.
Since the complaint was with our service, Barclays also offered to refund 50% of the card 
payments as well, again with 8% annual simple interest (less tax) added.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and they concluded that what Barclays had 
offered was reasonable.
Ms Gs did not agree with this outcome. So this complaint has been passed to me to issue a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this instance both parties agreed that Barclays should have intervened during the scam 
and that had an intervention occurred, the scam would likely have been stopped. What is in 
dispute is whether what Barclays has already agreed to do to rectify this matter is fair and 
reasonable.
So with this in mind I need to consider whether the 50% deduction is appropriate and also if 
Barclays could have recovered the funds via other means.
In relation to the 50% deduction, Ive thought about whether Ms Gs actions contributed to 
her losses. Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must 
still take responsibility for their decisions. 
In this instance, Ms G was introduced to the scammer through a social media platform which 
is not a normal route to find investment advice and within a relatively short amount of time, 
without actually meeting the scammer in person, she was sending large amounts of funds to 
B. She has also confirmed that she had not received any paperwork or detailed information 
about how the investment works from B prior to investing.
I cant see that Ms G did any substantial research or carried out any checks to determine 
that the scammers representations were true, especially given the substantial sums 
involved. I think it reasonable for Ms G to have done some research on the actual company 
she was dealing with before sending such large sums of money. 
An online search on B shows several different reviews saying that B is a scam and these 
reviews are from before Ms G invested. I note that Ms G has highlighted an article that gave 
a favourable review of B, but this review is heavily outnumbered by articles and reviews 
saying that B were scammers. So I think the lack of due diligence from Ms G means that she 
is partially responsible for her own loss, so Im satisfied a 50% deduction is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
In relation to the £100 that Barclays already paid for delays in its investigation, I think that 
this is reasonable and I dont think that it needs to do anything more.
I have considered whether Barclays could have recovered the payments in question. As 
some payments were card payments, in some instances the payments could be recovered 
by instigating a chargeback. However, in this case, a chargeback would not have been 
successful, as Ms G did receive the crypto she paid for before it was transferred on to B. In 
relation to the transfer, the Contingent Reimbursement Model does not apply to payments 
sent to accounts that are held in the consumers own name. So overall, I dont think that 
Barclays could have recovered the funds via other means.Finally, Ms G is unhappy that Barclays initially credited her current account with the amount 
of the debit card payments, whilst it attempted to recover those payments. But when it was 
unable to recover the payments, Ms G says it re-debited her account without sufficient 
warning, leading her to become overdrawn. I have carefully considered this but I can see 
that Barclays did write to Ms G before it did this. And I can see the reason for the account 
becoming overdrawn was because Ms G transferred the temporary credit out of her account, 
rather than leaving it in there. Given that the chargeback letters were clear that the refund 
was temporary, I dont think it was reasonable to do this, or at least I dont think its 
reasonable that Barclays should reimburse Ms G the overdraft interest she incurred because 
she chose to transfer the temporary credit to another account. So I dont think that Barclays 
are at fault for this aspect of Ms Gs complaint.
So I am upholding this complaint in part and I think that what Barclays has already agreed to 
do is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Refund 50% of the transactions in question less any amount already refunded. 
(Barclays has said that it has already refunded 50% of the transfer transaction 
(transaction 6)
Add 8% simple annual interest on these transactions, calculated from when they 
happened to the date of settlement, less any applicable tax. If Barclays has already 
refunded the transfer transaction (transaction 6) with interest, no further interest is 
due on that transaction.
Pay £100 for delays in Barclays investigation, unless already refunded
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
redress as outlined above, in full and final settlement of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman