DRN-1964065
The complaint
Miss N complains that, despite having paid back more that she borrowed from Santander UK 
Plc, it says her mortgage has not been paid off.
To resolve her complaint, Miss N would like Santander to explain why there is an 
outstanding balance and to refund any overpayments she has made.
What happened
In September 2000 Miss N took out a repayment mortgage for just under £90,000 with 
Santander. The mortgage has a 25 year term and is due to end in September 2025.
In September 2019, Miss N received a letter from Santander. The letter set out that the total 
balance outstanding on her mortgage was £0.00. Miss N then received a letter that set out 
her outstanding mortgage balance was over £33,000.
Miss N complained to Santander. She said that she didnt understand why, given that she 
had paid over £135,000 towards her mortgage since it was set up, there was still an 
outstanding balance.
Miss N wasnt happy with Santanders explanation. She said she felt it hadnt explained why 
there was still an outstanding balance and she referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Ns complaint. Having done so she said she was satisfied 
that the outstanding balance on Miss Ns mortgage account has been calculated correctly. 
She noted that the mortgage had been in arrears between 2014 and 2016 and that 
Santander had made Miss N aware of the arrears and how much she needed to pay to bring 
the account up-to-date.
Miss N wasnt satisfied with our investigators response. She provided this service with a 
copy of a letter she had received from Santander in September 2019 saying that the 
outstanding mortgage balance was £0.00. Miss N said she strongly believed that she had 
repaid her mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having very carefully considered everything that has been said and provided I am satisfied 
that Miss Ns mortgage hasnt been repaid. Ill explain why.
Miss N holds a repayment mortgage with Santander. Each month her contractual monthly 
payment is made up of a payment of interest on the outstanding mortgage balance and a 
payment towards repaying the money she borrowed from Santander. When her mortgage 
was set up in 2000 a 25 year term was agreed. This means that, provided Miss N keeps up 
the contractual monthly payments due on her mortgage, it will be repaid in full at the end of 
the mortgage term. 
I have reviewed the transaction history for Miss Ns mortgage account. Having done so I am 
satisfied that Miss N has not repaid the mortgage in full.
I have also looked into the letter Miss N received from Santander in September 2019 that 
said her outstanding mortgage balance was £0.00. As our investigator explained, 
Santander migrated Miss Ns mortgage account to its new system in September 2019. As 
part of the migration process it allocated her a new mortgage account number. The letter 
Miss N received showed that her old mortgage account had been closed. I can see that this 
letter may have caused Miss N some confusion, but I am satisfied the outstanding mortgage 
balance of £33,209 was transferred to the new mortgage account ending ***403.
Having carefully considered this matter I dont think Santander has done anything wrong and 
I am satisfied that Miss Ns mortgage has not been repaid.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman