DRN-1924387
 
The complaint
Ms G says Barclays Bank Plc trading as Barclaycard mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms G bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclays showed us a copy of the original application form which could have been 
completed in a branch or by post. Ms G told us she recalled applying for the credit card by 
post.
Barclays and our adjudicator assumed it was completed in a branch as this meant Barclays 
would have to make sure it was right for Ms G. Ms G has since clarified that she applied for 
the credit card by post but called Barclays while completing the form and was given the 
impression she needed to add PPI to the card in order for the application to be successful. 
Ive looked at the application form. In the section titled Payment Protection Plan Ms G has 
ticked a box to confirm she wanted to take the PPI, a separate box to decline the PPI has 
been left blank. I cant see anything on the form to suggest that the PPI had to be accepted 
in order for the application to be successful. So, from looking at the application form itself I 
think its more likely Ms G would have been aware she had a choice and chose to take out 
PPI.
I also note the PPI premiums would have appeared on Ms Gs monthly statements as 
purchases. And the PPI remained on her account for six years, until at least 2001 before 
being cancelled. If the PPI was something Ms G had not required, then Id expect her to 
have reviewed her decision to add it to her account at an early stage but Ive not seen any 
evidence that she did. 
I do understand that Ms G recalls being told to take the PPI in order to have the application 
accepted. But I do have to take into account that this sale took place 25 years ago and 
memories do fade over time.
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I think Barclays most likely made it clear that Ms G 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why she cant remember this, given how long ago it was.
In this decision Ive assumed Barclays did give Ms G advice. As such it had a responsibility 
to ensure the PPI was right for her. I think it was right for her for the following reasons:
Ms G was eligible for the policy. And she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy would not have covered. For example, she didnt have any medical 
conditions that wouldnt be covered. So, Ms G would have been able to make a claim if 
shed have needed to.
Ms Gs employer would have paid her full pay for six months followed by half pay for a 
further six months if she fell ill or had an accident. But the PPI policy could have paid a 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim in addition to any sick pay. So, I still think the 
policy could have been useful to Ms G especially if she became unwell for a lengthy period 
of time.
The PPI would also have paid the monthly benefit if Ms G had lost her job, meaning she 
could use any redundancy pay for other living costs.
It is possible Barclays didnt give Ms G all the information it should have. But thats not 
enough to uphold this complaint. I need to decide whether or not Ms G would have changed 
her mind about buying the policy if she had been given better or clearer information. I cant 
say she would have done. The policy was right for her, it looks like she was interested in this 
type of cover and Ive not seen anything to make me think it was unaffordable to her.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms G.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms G because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms G about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc trading as Barclaycard does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms G.
But Barclays does have to pay back to Ms G any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award 
any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman