DRN-2836113
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how Starling Bank Limited (Starling) have handled his complaint 
about being the victim of fraud.
What happened
Mr M says that he was subject to blackmail and threats between late 2018 and June 2019, 
and due to this he gave his account details and cards and PINs to those threatening him.   
Mr M says they took control of his accounts held with four different banks including an 
account with Bank A and made transactions without his permission as well as forcing him to 
make some transactions. Mr M says this continued until they came to his home in June 2019 
and took him in a car  threatening him and physically assaulting him. Mr M says at this 
point he was scared of what would happen next and went to the police.
Its been unclear exactly how Mr Ms details were initially compromised. He has told us that 
his father wanted to learn about online trading, so Mr M helped him find a third party via the 
internet to help with this. And that within a few days of contacting that third party, Mr M and 
his father started to be blackmailed.
Mr M has also told us that he wanted to learn how to trade in forex and found a course 
online. He says he gave his card details and was tricked into sharing his bank details for his 
account Bank A after he was told a trade account had been set up for him. As part of setting 
up that trade account Mr M also shared his driving licence. He says that shortly after this he 
noticed unauthorised transactions on his account with Bank A, so he contacted the third 
party who had set up the trade account and complained. Mr M says they told him that if he 
did anything they would come to his house and hurt his friend or his family.
Mr M says that both himself, his father and a friend were subject to blackmail and threats 
and all lost money to the fraudsters. Mr M says they knew his home address and came to his 
house on some occasions and threatened him with violence. He says he had to open new 
accounts with Starling and Bank B as he lost control of his accounts with Bank A and 
another bank. But that the fraudsters found out about the new accounts and took control of 
those as well. Eventually all of Mr Ms accounts with all four banks were closed.
Mr M says the fraudsters called from a withheld number and came to his house and deleted 
their conversations with him off his phone  so he doesnt have any evidence of his contact 
with them. But Mr M has provided four screen shots of messages which appear to be from 
around May 2019. Mr M gave us the name and contact details for the police officer 
overseeing his case, as well as a letter from Victim Support.
Mr Ms Starling account
In February 2019, Starling received notification from another bank  Bank A  that some 
transfers into Mr Ms account were being disputed as fraudulent. Starling contacted Mr M to 
get more information about these payments.
The payments had come from Mr Ms own account held with Bank A.
Due to the notification from Bank A, Starling reviewed their banking relationship with Mr M 
and decided to end the relationship by closing his account. They told Mr M they would be 
closing his account on 1 March 2019, giving him seven days notice.
In May 2019, Mr M got in touch with Starling to let them know that he had been the victim of 
fraud and asking them to reopen his account. Also raising a fraud claim about some of the 
transactions on his account. Mr M says that the fraudsters removed all of the money from his 
Starling account.
In July 2019, Starling told Mr M they were closing his account in seven days. At this point    
Mr M became aware that Starling hadnt closed his account in March as he was originally 
told.
Mr M raised a complaint with Starling. Starling told Mr M they werent prepared to elaborate 
on the reason why they chose to close his account. And that the account hadnt closed in 
March 2019 due to an oversight. Starling doubted that the account compromise was 
genuine, due to the relatively low value of some of the transactions.
The transactions that occurred following the transfers from Bank A are detailed below, with 
the transfers in bold.
Date Type of transaction Amount
23.1.2019 Transfer in from Bank A £848.65 cr
23.1.2019 Faster Payment out £5.00
23.1.2019 Faster Payment out £800.00
24.1.2019 Direct Debit £12.02
24.1.2019 Payment to S - contactless £2.50
24.1.2019 Payment to S  Chip and PIN £2.50
24.1.2019 Payment to B  Chip and PIN £5.00
28.1.2019 Transfer in from Bank A £48.86 cr
28.1.2019 Transfer in from Bank A £218.98 cr
28.1.2019 Payment to D N £62.00
28.1.2019 Payment to U - online £14.68
29.1.2019 ATM withdrawal £10.00
29.1.2019 ATM withdrawal £10.00
2.2.2019 Faster payment to O £100.00
2.2.2019 Faster payment to O £100.00
2.2.2019 Faster payment to O £200.00
3.2.2019 Faster payment to O £200.00
3.2.2019 Mr M contacts Starling and asks what the daily limit is on transfers
4.2.2019 Payment to U - online £19.05
5.2.2019 Payment to B  Chip and PIN transaction £20.00
5.2.2019 Faster payment to O £40.00
6.2.2019 Faster payment to O £35.00
9.2.2019 Faster payment credit to account £30.00 cr
9.2.2019 Faster payment to O £30.16
As Mr M wasnt happy with Starlings response, he brought a complaint to our service. He 
added a complaint point about the way Starling handled his complaint, particularly in relation 
to a call he had with them.
An investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. Ultimately, he felt Mr M had 
consented to the transactions by giving the third parties the means to access his account. And that Starling hadnt acted unfairly in closing Mr Ms account. They accepted that Starling 
didnt close Mr Ms account the first time and incorrectly left it open, but didnt feel this 
warranted a compensation payment. The investigator also said theyd listened to the call    
Mr M had with Starling and didnt feel it was unprofessional or handled poorly. 
More recently Mr M has told us that he is only disputing the transactions made on his 
Starling account after 1 February 2019. 
As Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also very carefully considered everything that Mr M has told us and Ive taken into 
account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good 
industry practice at the time.
Can Starling hold Mr M liable for the disputed transactions?
Generally, Starling can hold Mr M liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself.
In this case its not in dispute that Mr Ms genuine card and PIN were used to make the card 
transactions. And Mr Ms mobile banking credentials were used to make the faster 
payments. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough for 
Starling to hold him liable. I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that    
Mr M consented to the transactions being made. 
Ive listened to the calls Mr M had with Starling. The first call was after Mr Ms account had 
been blocked on 12 February 2019. Mr M tells Starling that his card has stopped working, 
and that his account is going to be really active  as he and his father were moving house 
and would be transferring money backwards and forwards between their accounts. Its 
unclear why Mr M told Starling about funds being moved in and out of his account, as most 
of the transactions that hes disputing had already been made.
Starlings contact notes record an online chat with Mr M at the start of February 2019 when 
he asked what the daily limit was on transfers out of his account. But despite this being 
asked, the subsequent transactions were for small amounts and spread over a number of 
days  whereas the daily limit wouldve allowed Mr Ms account to be drained in one single 
transfer. Usually Id expect to see a fraudster drain an account as quickly as possible as they 
dont know when the card or account may be blocked.
Also, in a call with Starling in May 2019, Mr M tells them that people had access to his 
account and it got to a point that they blackmailed him, and that it had been going on for a 
couple of months. But Mr M later said they had control of his Starling account since January 
and more recently said it was since the start of February, which was several months prior. 
Whereas in the call, it sounded as though Mr M may not have lost control of his account 
initially, with it only happening at a later point in time. This makes it difficult to understand 
which transactions Mr M may have carried out himself. 
But regardless, the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) set out the circumstances 
under which we would consider a consumer to have consented to transactions. In this case 
Mr M says he gave his card and PIN and access to his bank account to the fraudsters, which enabled them to make these transactions. While I accept what Mr M has told us about being 
blackmailed and threatened into giving his card and bank details to them, being coerced or 
pressured into giving consent doesnt change the starting position under the PSRs that he 
has given consent.
Therefore, having considered everything, Im satisfied in these circumstances that Mr M has 
authorised the transactions. So, I cant fairly ask Starling to refund Mr M.
However, Ive also considered whether Starling couldve or shouldve done anything to 
prevent these transactions from being made on Mr Ms account. 
Could Starling have prevented the payments?
Looking at the transactions completed after 1 February 2019, they are spread out over the 
period of a week and werent done in quick succession or for large amounts. The highest 
transfer after 1 February was only for £200, and even if I consider the transactions prior to 
this date, the highest was only for £800. Having looked at the transactions in totality, Im 
satisfied that there wasnt enough about them that made them look particularly unusual or 
out of character whereby I think they shouldve flagged with Starling as potentially 
suspicious. 
And as I dont think they shouldve flagged, I cant see that Starling missed an opportunity to 
prevent or stop the payments
Have Starling acted fairly in closing Mr Ms account? 
Starling are entitled to end their banking relationship with Mr M in line with their terms and 
conditions, in the same way that he can decide that he doesnt want to bank with them 
anymore. 
From what Ive seen Starling gave Mr M seven days notice each time they told him they 
were going to close his account. It isnt ideal that they told him theyd close his account in 
March 2019 but then left the account open in error. But I cant see that this had a negative 
impact on Mr M as no transactions were completed on the account during the time it 
remained open  until it was closed in July 2019. I appreciate that Mr M wouldve liked 
Starling to reconsider their position and reopen his account, but they arent obligated to do 
so and I cant require them to. 
Also, Starling arent required to give Mr M a specific reason for why theyve chosen to end 
their banking relationship with him, in much the same way that he wouldnt have to give them 
a reason to stop banking with them. Starling have told Mr M that they had concerns about 
his account activity  so did give an indication of why they made their decision. From what 
Ive seen Im satisfied that Starling acted fairly and reasonably in closing Mr Ms account.
Mr M wasnt happy with how Starling handled his account closure and specifically referred to 
a call he had with them. But in the calls Ive listened to I havent found any issues whereby I 
think Starling acted inappropriately or unreasonably, and I found the staff to be professional 
in their conversations with Mr M. Therefore, I cant fairly ask Starling to do any more.
Overall, Im satisfied that Starling can hold Mr M liable for the disputed transactions and I 
wont be asking them to refund Mr M. Also, theyve acted fairly and reasonably in closing   
Mr Ms account, so I wont be asking Starling to do anything further.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman