DRN-4064647
The complaint
Miss C complains about losses incurred when carrying out currency conversions with 
TTT Moneycorp Ltd (Moneycorp). 
What happened
Miss C has an account with Moneycorp that allows her to directly convert the balance to 
other currencies. Miss Cs explained that Moneycorp took the decision to close the Red 
Explorer card down. At the time, Miss C had around £3,650 available. 
On 15 and 16 October 2022 Miss C used the online banking facility to carry out a number of 
currency conversions. Miss C converted funds saved from sterling to euros then to dollars 
and back to euros. But Miss C contacted Moneycorp as when she looked at converting the 
euros back to sterling she found a loss. Miss C explained she found the currency exchanges 
shed completed had led to a charge of £677. 
On 18 October 2022 Moneycorp spoke with Miss C and it confirmed the balance was held in 
euros and that she would receive £2,956.78 back if she converted it to sterling that day, 
based on Mastercards foreign exchange rate. 
Miss C complained and Moneycorp issued a final response. Moneycorp explained that Miss 
C had carried out a large number of currency exchanges in a short space of time. As a 
result, the difference was caused by the exchange rates applied which were set by 
MasterCard. Moneycorp didnt agree it had made any mistakes with Miss Cs account and 
didnt uphold her complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Cs complaint. They thought Moneycorp had 
dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Miss C asked to appeal 
and said she wasnt fully aware of how the account works and the impact of completing 
currency conversions on the available balance. As Miss C asked to appeal, her complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I understand Miss C is unhappy that following the various currency conversions completed 
on 15 and 16 October 2022 she found she would receive less back than expected. Miss Cs 
told us she wasnt aware that completing foreign exchanges within the account could lead to 
a reduction in the balance. And Miss Cs told us she thought Moneycorp would apply its own 
exchange rate when converting funds, not the MasterCard rate. Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions to see what they say about the exchange rates used. 
Section 8 of the account terms and conditions for the Explorer multi-currency card Prepaid 
MasterCard is called Foreign Currency Transactions. It says: 
8.1 There are some instances where a foreign exchange rate will apply v) where you 
allocate funds from one currency to a different currency 
Section 8 of Moneycorps terms and conditions goes on to says The foreign exchange rate 
used is the rate determined by MasterCard to be the wholesale rate in effect on the day the 
transaction is processed by MasterCard, plus the foreign exchange fee. 
I can see the terms say card purchases will be converted using the MasterCard exchange 
rate. But the terms also say the MasterCard exchange rate will be used when a customer 
allocates funds to different currencies within the account. And thats what Miss C was doing 
on 15 and 16 October 2022. 
Ive looked at the account statements and they show the value of the funds once the 
currency conversions had been completed. I know Miss C wants to see the specific rates 
used, but Moneycorps confirmed it hasnt been given those details by MasterCard. And 
Moneycorps confirmed it has no involvement in what rates MasterCard sets. 
Miss Cs told us she wasnt aware that converting her funds could lead to a loss in this way. 
But I can only uphold a complaint if I find a business has made a mistake or treated its 
customer unfairly. And Im satisfied that Moneycorps account terms explain that the 
MasterCard rate will be used to convert funds from one currency to another which is what 
occurred. I havent found anything that shows Moneycorp made mistakes in applying the 
converted funds or that it treated her unfairly. The information Ive seen shows the account 
has been managed in line with the terms and conditions. Im sorry to disappoint Miss C but I 
havent been persuaded to uphold her complaint. 
Moneycorps advised that in February 2023 Miss C still had 3,727.88 euros in her account 
that could be converted to sterling. I leave it to Miss C to decide whether she wishes to 
convert the remaining euros to sterling. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss C but as Im satisfied Moneycorp dealt with her complaint fairly 
Im not telling it to do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman