DRN-3855130
The complaint
Mr T complains because PTI Insurance Company Limited (PTI) hasnt paid a claim under 
his personal accident insurance policy. All references to PTI include the agents it has 
appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr T held a personal accident insurance policy, provided by PTI. In 2020, Mr T made a claim 
under his policy because he was being discharged from the army. Mr T said this was 
because of a lower back injury, depression, and a possible cold injury. 
PTI said the claim wasnt covered. It said there was no evidence that Mr Ts lower back 
injury met the definitions of accident, or bodily injury set out in the policy terms and 
conditions. PTI also said that depression didnt meet the policy definition of a bodily injury 
and that there was no evidence Mr T had a cold injury. Unhappy, Mr T complained to PTI 
before bringing the matter to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said, based on the medical 
evidence hed seen, he didnt think he could fairly ask PTI to cover Mr Ts claim. Mr T didnt 
agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making my decision about Mr Ts complaint. 
PTI says the policy terms and conditions dated June 2014 are applicable to Mr Ts claim. 
These terms and conditions provide for the payment of a benefit in the event of medical 
discharge from the army caused by bodily injury. 
Bodily injury is defined as:
Bodily Injury, which is sustained by the Insured Person and within 12 months from 
the date of the Accident, shall solely and independently of any other cause result in 
the  disablement of the Insured Person. Cover will not include Bodily Injury due to 
a gradually deteriorating cause or Sickness other than where such Sickness is 
caused by Bodily Injury.
Accident is defined as a sudden, unexpected, unusual specific event that occurs at an 
identifiable time and place. 
This means, to qualify for a payment under the policy, Mr T needs to demonstrate that he 
was discharged from the army solely because of an injury resulting in permanent 
disablement within 12 months of an accident. 
Mr T says he first sustained a back injury during a training exercise in 2013. Ive carefully 
considered the available medical evidence. Mr Ts medical records show that he first 
presented with lower back pain on 31 October 2013 when he reported hed been injured in a 
military training exercise, with symptoms starting gradually. Mr T appears to have further 
injured his back during a military exercise in 2014. Mr Ts medical records note various 
consultations for back pain in 2014, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. Many of these entries note 
Mr T referring to the injuries which he says he experienced in 2013 and 2014. An army 
medical board report dated 11 May 2020 describes Mr Ts back pain as having onset 
gradually in October 2013 and reports ongoing pain to date. A medical claim form submitted 
to PTI describes the nature of Mr Ts injury as Chronic low back pain. 1st complaint of low 
back pain, gradual onset 31/10/13. No specific injury documented at the time.
Mr Ts medical records, on multiple occasions, refer to accidents in 2013 and 2014 which he 
says caused his lower back pain. I dont doubt that Mr T did suffer accidents in the past. But, 
to make a valid claim under his policy with PTI, Mr T would need to have been discharged 
from the army solely because of injuries sustained in an accident, within 12 months of that 
accident. This isnt what happened. Instead, Mr Ts records suggest its likely that his back 
pain gradually deteriorated until he was discharged from the army around seven years after 
the initial incident which Mr T has described as happening in 2013. This isnt a situation 
thats covered under his policy. 
Mr T also told PTI that his army discharge related to depression and to a possible cold injury. 
Mr Ts policy only covers bodily injuries  so theres no cover for illnesses such as 
depression. And Ive seen no persuasive medical evidence that would lead me to conclude 
its likely that Mr T had a cold injury, or that this was a reason for his discharge from the 
army. Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but I dont think PTI has acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
declining his claim, and I wont be directing PTI to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman