DRN-2790421
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy because Santander UK Plc did not reimburse money he transferred to a 
fraudster.
What happened
Mr O owns a classic car. He contacted a respected mechanic, someone hed known for a 
few years and met socially on a number of previous occasions, and asked them to carry out 
some repairs on the vehicle. 
As the extent of the necessary repairs was unknown, Mr O and the mechanic did not agree 
on a price when Mr O dropped the car off. He expected the costs to be anywhere between 
£1,500 and £4,000  depending on how much work needed to be carried out.
On 21 September 2019, Mr O emailed the mechanic and offered to make a weekly payment 
towards the overall cost. Unfortunately for Mr O, a fraudster whod accessed the mechanics 
emails replied, agreeing to the offer and asking how much Mr O would transfer. 
He suggested £500, but the fraudster asked for £1,500 each week and for a payment 
covering two weeks to be made immediately.
Mr O sent emails asking whether the mechanic would be expecting the same amount every 
week and questioning the overall cost of the work. The fraudster didnt respond to these 
questions, they only sent a further email the following morning asking whether the payment 
had been made and suggesting work might be delayed if it hadnt. 
Despite the lack of response, Mr O sent a payment of £3,000 to the bank account details 
hed been given. As part of the payment process (and after selecting that the payment was 
to pay for a service) Santander say Mr O would have seen and ticked a box to confirm hed 
read and understood the following warning:
Could this be an invoice scam? 
If you're paying an unexpected invoice for a service you haven't ordered or received, it could 
be a scam. 
If someone is pressuring you, please stop now.
And later on, before confirming the payment, a further warning would have been displayed:
Santander will NEVER ask you to transfer money. If you have been asked to transfer money 
or are unsure about the payment you are making please do not complete the request,
Mr O says he was reassured when making the payment because the payment screen 
showed that the fraudsters bank account was held in a nearby town. 
About ten minutes after making the payment, Mr O became uncomfortable with the 
exchange hed had. He sent a further email expressing his disappointment with the way the 
discussion had unfolded. He said he felt the person who has been sending me these emails 
is not the person I know, but he also expressed confidence in the mechanics abilities.
Increasingly unhappy with the lack of response, at 10:46 Mr O sent a text to the mechanic 
saying: Would you be kind enough to answer my email sent this morning at 8.06, just to 
confirm that I havent been scammed. Mr O says that, although he wasnt aware that email 
accounts could be hacked in this way, by this point he was beginning to suspect it may have 
been someone else who was responding.
The mechanic said they hadnt received any emails from Mr O since the previous day and 
the scam came to light. Mr O contacted Santander the same day to report the fraud. 
Santander immediately contacted the bank which received the money but were eventually 
told that no funds remained. 
Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
authorised push payment (APP) scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  
Santander says Mr O ignored effective warnings and didnt have a reasonable basis for 
belief in making the payment, so it declined his claim.
Mr O complained to our service. He said hed been given no indication during the payment 
process that the account he paid wasnt in the name of the mechanic. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They didnt think the warnings provided to 
Mr O were particularly relevant to his circumstances and neither, they thought, did they 
explain how a scam of this nature works. The investigator understood why Santander 
thought Mr O lacked a reasonable basis for belief and acknowledged the case was finely 
balanced. However, they were persuaded that Mr Os concerns were about the business 
practices of the mechanic and not whether the emails had actually come from him. So, they 
thought Mr O had a reasonable basis for belief in making the payment.
Santander disagreed. In summary, it said:
- It is reasonable to expect a customer to read and take notice of warnings that are 
provided.
- The amount Mr O paid to the fraudster was six times his original offer and, in total, 
more than hed expected the overall cost to be.
- Mr O failed to wait for a response to his emails querying the amount requested, 
despite his concerns and his feeling that the emails did not sound like they came 
from the mechanic  someone he knew well and could have reached out to in 
another way.
- Mr O would not have seen the location of the fraudsters branch while making the 
payment, as he has suggested.
Mr O, on reflection, thought that he may have been told the location of the fraudsters branch 
after the scam took place, not during the payment process. Our investigator continued to 
think the complaint should be upheld. They said that the amount Mr O paid was still less 
than the overall amount hed budgeted for the work. The investigator also highlighted the 
mechanics apparent impeccable reputation within the field of car restoration and how, 
despite Mr Os misgivings, he trusted the amount requested was necessary for the work.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Santander should have refunded the money Mr O 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
The money was taken from Mr Os current account. It is not clear how Mr O would 
have used the money if Santander had refunded it when it should have done, so 
Santander should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% 
simple per year from 29 September 2019  the date Santander declined Mr Os claim 
 to the date of payment.
I have carefully considered Santanders representations about the warning it gave and 
whether Mr O had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they 
do not persuade me to reach a different view. In particular, I am not persuaded that Mr O 
failed to take the requisite level of care required for Santander to choose not to reimburse 
under the terms of the CRM Code.
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met. Of the two warnings quoted above, the second has little relevance to Mr Os 
circumstances  it principally refers to circumstances where fraudsters have impersonated 
Santander. So, its hard to see how it would be effective at preventing a scam of this nature 
 in Mr Os circumstances or anyone elses. 
The first warning is slightly more relevant to Mr Os circumstances. The warning, at least in 
part, is presumably designed to prevent invoice intercept scams like this one. But, I cant 
agree that the warning was effective. 
Confirming account details in person or over the phone is almost always sufficient to prevent 
this type of scam, so its crucial that any warning explains this. And, its unlikely that anyone 
in Mr Os position who wasnt already familiar with an invoice scam would know, based on 
this warning, what the particular risk was or how to prevent it. The warning doesnt explain 
that emails can be intercepted and accounts hacked. It also suggests the risk is limited to 
unexpected requests for services that havent been ordered or provided. In reality, such 
scams often work by the fraudster inserting themselves into negotiations or replacing 
genuine communication, such that a request for payment is expected. 
Thats what happened in Mr Os case. Hed offered to make a payment  so the request was 
not unexpected. And, given that this scam didnt actually involve an invoice, just an informal 
discussion, I can understand why the warning wouldnt have seemed relevant to Mr Os 
circumstances. 
Overall, the warning failed to bring to life what a scam of this nature looks like  how a 
fraudster can pose as another person and send emails from their email address or 
something which looks very similar. And, the circumstances of this particular scam made the 
warning even less effective. 
 So, I dont think the warnings given were impactful nor went far enough to be effective. 
And I dont think Mr O acted unreasonably by proceeding with the payment after seeing 
them. 
Im also satisfied that Santander has not shown that Mr O lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
and Ill explain why.
The emails Mr O received came from the mechanics genuine email address. It was Mr O 
who initiated the conversation and raised the possibility of a payment  so neither the emails 
nor the discussion about money were unexpected. The emails also copied the visual style 
(but not the content) of the emails hed received previously. So, with those facts in mind, and 
with Mr O lacking any real appreciation of how email accounts could be hacked and emails 
diverted, its unsurprising (and certainly not unreasonable) that he, at least at first, believed 
he was communicating with the mechanic.
Its not in dispute that Mr O was surprised by the tone of the emails he received. Their 
request for substantially more money than he offered, for immediate payment and the lack of 
explanation for the increased costs all concerned Mr O. 
But its important not to conflate the disappointment and upset Mr O felt that a previously 
friendly relationship had suddenly soured when discussion had turned to money with an 
appreciation that the person he was speaking to wasnt actually the mechanic.
His final email to the fraudster (sent after the payment had been made) reflects his deep 
disappointment in the way negotiations had been handled but also his confidence and, 
I think, trust, in the mechanic. The length and tone of the email make it clear that Mr O still 
believes that hes emailing the mechanic at this point. I think that explains why Mr O sent the 
payment without having received a response to his questions and why he sent an amount 
which was more than he expected the work to cost (albeit within his overall budget).
Santander have argued that he could have taken steps to verify he was speaking to the 
mechanic. But, Mr O wasnt concerned about who he was communicating with, he was 
concerned about what they were saying. If Mr O had genuinely suspected that he wasnt 
talking to the mechanic before making the payment then he could, and I think would, have 
contacted him using another method. 
Of course, the fact Mr O did believe that he was speaking to the mechanic, does not 
necessarily make that belief reasonable. When considering whether that belief was 
reasonable, its important to take into account Mr Os characteristics  of particular 
significance is that he wasnt familiar with how scams of this nature work. While he 
recognised that the mechanics behaviour had changed  there were any number of reasons 
why this might have happened. And, while someone who understood the vulnerabilities of 
email communication and the risk of scams might reasonably be expected to recognise the 
possibility that they were communicating with a fraudster, I dont think the same can be said 
for Mr O. Without that knowledge I think it was reasonable for him to explain the apparent 
sudden change in behaviour of the mechanic in the way that he did, rather than recognise 
the scam risk.
Mr O did contact the mechanic by text later that morning.  In that text he mentioned being 
scammed and he acknowledges that, at that point, a penny had dropped and he began to 
appreciate that he may not have been in contact with the mechanic. But, this was after the 
payment had been made, the contents of a further email had been ignored and Mr O had 
time to reflect on the days events. Even then, Mr O only appears to have considered that he 
might be the victim of a scam amongst the various other possibilities of what could be 
happening  including a suspicion that hed been talking to one of the mechanics staff, rather than the mechanic. So, Im not persuaded that his later appreciation of the potential 
risk makes his earlier belief that the payment was genuine unreasonable. 
Overall, though I accept this is a finely balanced case, Im persuaded Mr O did believe he 
was speaking to the mechanic before making the payment, and, taking into account his 
characteristics, that belief was reasonable.    
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this 
complaint about Santander UK Plc  and I therefore require the bank to pay Mr O:
- The amount lost  £3,000
- 8% simple interest per annum on that amount, calculated from 29 September 2019 to 
the date of settlement  less any tax lawfully deductible.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc and direct it to pay the redress Ive set out 
above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman