DRN-3463057
The complaint
Mr D complains that a car acquired with finance from Startline Motor Finance Limited wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In May 2021 Mr D was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
Startline. At the point of supply that car was around 5 years old and had covered 76000 
mlies.
Mr D experienced issues with the engine. He took the car to a garage and was quoted 
around £5000 for repairs. Mr D contacted the supplying dealer, who referred him onto the 
warranty company. The warranty company said it would, cover £1000 of the repair cost.
Mr D complained to Startline and said he wanted to return the car.
Startline arranged an independent inspection of the car in November 2021. The engineer 
stated that there were signs of an injector fault and that further investigations would need to 
be carried out to establish the cause of the failure. The engineer also stated that the fault 
wasnt present at the point of supply. 
Based on the findings of the report, Startline didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that the engineer had accepted that the fault 
with the injector was a durability issue. The investigator said that under the relevant 
legislation, a car wasnt of satisfactory quality if it wasnt sufficiently durable. The investigator 
said that the failure of the component after only two months of the point of supply supported 
a conclusion that the car wasnt sufficiently durable. The investigator said that Startline 
should reimburse Mr D the cost or repairs and pay compensation.
Startline didnt respond so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of standard that 
a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the 
age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The quality of goods includes their general 
state and condition, and other things like fitness for purpose, freedom from minor defects, 
appearance and finish, safety and durability.
Id expect a second hand car  such as that supplied to Mr D  to have a degree of wear and 
tear and to require more repairs and maintenance than a brand new car. So, in order to 
uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the car had an inherent defect which 
made it of unsatisfactory quality as opposed to a fault cause by general wear and tear.
Ive looked at the independent inspection report. This confirms that there is a fault with the 
injector, possibly caused by contact with the piston. Based on what Ive seen in the report, 
and taking into account what Mr D has said, Im satisfied that theres a fault with the car.
Ive gone on to consider whether the fault means that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Startline has said that because the engineer said he didnt think the injector 
was faulty at the point of supply, it doesnt accept responsibility for the fault.
However, the engineer has also stated that the fault is a durability issue. Durability is an 
aspect of satisfactory quality, so Ive considered whether the car was sufficiently durable. 
The available evidence shows that the fault occurred around 2 months after Mr D got the 
car. It had covered around 2282 miles since the point of supply. Under the relevant 
legislation, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months theres a presumption that the fault was 
present or developing at the point of supply.
Just because theres a fault doesnt mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. But in 
this case, theres enough information for me to conclude that the car wasnt sufficiently 
durable. I dont think a reasonable person would expect a major component part like the 
injector to fail within such a  short time of the point of supply. For these reasons, Im 
persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and that Startline 
should take steps to put things right.
Putting things right
Mr D has now had the car repaired and has provided an invoice showing the cost of repairs 
in the sum of £6,181.98. Mr D received £1000 towards these costs from the warranty 
company. Startline should reimburse Mr D the balance of £5181.98.
Mr D wasnt able to use the car from 31 July 2021 (the date when it broke down) until 11 
February 2022 (the date when repairs were completed). I dont think is reasonable to expect 
Mr D to pay for a  car he was unable to use because it wasnt of satisfactory quality. Startline 
should refund all monthly payments made by Mr D between these two dates.
Its clear that Mr D has been impacted by the fault with the car. hes had to arrange 
alternative means to get to work which has caused him inconvenience. Hes also had to take 
out a loan to pay for the repairs which has impacted him financially. Taking the overall 
impact on Mr D into account, Startline should pay compensation of £500 for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Startline Motor Finance Limited must:
Refund Mr D the sum of £5181.98 for the repairs
Refund the payments made by Mr D between 31 July 2021  11 February 2022
Pay 8% simple interest on all amounts refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay £500 for distress and inconvenienceRemove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file in relation to the agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman