DRN-3791127
The complaint
Mr O complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) did not pursue a 
chargeback claim as he requested.   
What happened
Mr O purchased a train ticket to France through a company Ill call E. He purchased the 
tickets on 14 December 2021 and was due to travel on 21 December 2021. The French 
government then banned all non-essential travel to France from the UK, meaning Mr O was 
unable to travel. 
Mr O contacted AMEX on 16 December 2021 to dispute the payment of £179. A chargeback 
was raised soon afterwards under the code goods and services not received and a 
temporary credit was applied to Mr Os account. Following a review from the disputes 
department, they saw that the tickets were non-refundable at any time and so a chargeback 
claim could not succeed. The temporary credit was removed from Mr Os account. 
Mr O raised a complaint as he felt his claim had not been dealt with correctly. He explained 
that he was not permitted to travel so could not have used the train tickets. However, AMEX 
maintained that as the train journey was not cancelled, E still provided the service, but Mr O 
chose not to use it. So, a chargeback would not be successful in the circumstances. 
Mr O referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the evidence and 
found that Mr O could not have raised a claim under Section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 as each service (in this case each train journey) cost less than the required £100 
limit. They then went on to consider the chargeback claim and found that as the service was 
not cancelled by E and Mr Os tickets were non-refundable, Mr O had no chargeback claim 
under the voluntary scheme rules. 
Mr O raised the issue that the train he was meant to be travelling on 21 December was 
cancelled and he was instead changed to a train an hour earlier. So he felt E had cancelled 
the service it was meant to provide him. Our investigator looked into this and found the time 
of the train does not form part of the contract with E as the timing of the trains are subject to 
change and a refund is only due if there is a delay of more than an hour. As Mr Os train was 
early by an hour, the investigator did not feel a refund was due or that there was an eligible 
chargeback claim. Mr O remained unhappy with this as he stated E offered a refund in an   
e-mail but he could not action it on their website.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for largely the same reasons. I think AMEX 
acted reasonably when it did not pursue the chargeback claim as it did not have a 
reasonable chance of success. Ill explain why in more detail. 
I have to consider if AMEX acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled Mr Os request 
for getting his money back. In situations like this, AMEX can consider raising a chargeback 
or assessing a claim under section 75. 
Ive first considered AMEXs decision not to pursue a claim under section 75. I cant see that 
it considered this, as I would have expected it to. So, Ive considered if there was a viable 
claim under section 75. 
There are certain limitations that apply to a section 75 claim. One of them being the cash 
price of the goods or service. They must be more than £100, but no more than £30,000. In 
Mr Os case, the service was the train journeys, and each train journey cost £89.50, meaning 
their cash price was less than the minimum for a section 75 claim. Because of this, while I 
think AMEX should have considered a section 75 claim, as Mr Os purchase did not meet the 
eligibility criteria, I dont think there was grounds for a section 75 claim.
Ive gone on to consider AMEXs decision not to pursue a chargeback claim further than it 
did. It should be noted that the chargeback process is a voluntary scheme and there is no 
guarantee of a refund in the circumstances. 
Based on Mr Os description of what had happened, AMEX selected the reason code for the 
chargeback as goods/services not received, which I think was reasonable. And this applies 
where the merchant has been unable to provide the goods or service that was purchased. I 
appreciate Mr Os comments that due to the French Governments change of rules, he was 
unable to travel. However, as E was still providing the service he had purchased, meaning 
the train service was still going ahead, it was very unlikely that the chargeback would have 
succeeded in the circumstances. So, I think AMEXs decision not to pursue the chargeback 
further was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr O has said that E did cancel the service it was contracted to provide because it cancelled 
the train he was due to travel on and instead moved him to a train an hour earlier, which he 
would not have been able to use due to time constraints. However, I dont agree that this 
means E was not providing the service he had paid for, as it had moved him to an alternative 
service. And I note that Es terms and conditions state: We do not guarantee the train times 
to you and they do not form part of your contract of carriage with us. So, I dont think that E 
has broken the contract by changing the time of the train. 
The terms and conditions of the merchant states that a refund will only be due when a 
cancellation or delay causes a delay in Mr O reaching his final destination by more than 60 
minutes. In Mr Os case, he was due to arrive early by 60 minutes, so I dont think a refund 
was due in the circumstances or that a chargeback claim had a likely chance of success. I 
appreciate Mr Os comments that he was sent an e-mail offering him a refund as a result of 
this, but when he tried to process this it was unsuccessful. On balance, I think its more likely 
this was because the type of ticket Mr O had was non-refundable. 
Having carefully considered everything available to me, I think AMEXs decision not to 
pursue a chargeback claim further than it did was reasonable in the circumstances, so I dont 
think it needs to take further action.     My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman