DRN-2809398
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC was irresponsible to offer her a buy to let 
mortgage. She says due to this it should extend the term of her mortgage.
What happened
Mrs W took out a buy to let mortgage with Barclays in 2008, on an interest only basis. Mrs W 
says her repayment vehicle was an inheritance and Barclays shouldnt have offered her a 
mortgage on this basis. 
Mrs W asks that Barclays extends the term of the mortgage to 2045 to allow more time for 
the expected inheritance to arrive. She says selling the property within the next few years 
would mean evicting tenants that have lived there since she bought the property and have 
young children.
Barclays didnt agree it had mis-sold the mortgage, or to extend the mortgage term saying 
this wasnt affordable based on Mrs Ws stated income.
Our investigator said while Mrs Ws repayment vehicle was noted on her application, 
Barclays wasnt required to investigate this further as this was a buy to let mortgage, taken 
out in 2008. The investigator said wed already looked into Mrs Ws complaint about 
Barclays not extending the term of her mortgage. 
Mrs W didnt agree, saying that as Barclays asked what her repayment vehicle was the 
mortgage was mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to bear in mind here that this complaint is about a buy to let mortgage. Buy to let 
mortgages arent regulated in the same way as residential mortgages. Essentially, a buy to 
let property is a business investment.
Barclays didnt need to assess how Mrs W would repay the mortgage in the same way as it 
might have done for a residential mortgage. As Ive said, the property was a business 
investment and not Mrs Ws own home. So it was reasonable for Barclays to lend on the 
basis that selling the property to repay the mortgage was an option if Mrs Ws stated 
repayment vehicle wasnt available.
Mrs W says she chose a 20-year term and now wishes shed chosen a longer term. It was 
for Mrs W to plan how shed repay the mortgage by the time the term expired. The mortgage 
offer made this clear. I dont think its reasonable to require Barclays to extend the term on 
the basis Mrs W could have chosen a longer term at the outset.
 
Mrs W is concerned that she wont be able to repay the mortgage before its expiry in 2028 
without selling the property. I appreciate that Mrs W finds the idea of evicting long-standing 
tenants upsetting. Mrs W might consider taking independent financial advice about her 
options. 
Mrs W says it was irresponsible for Barclays to lend when shed said her repayment vehicle 
was an inheritance. She wouldnt have known when these funds would be available  if at 
all. But I dont think this made it was wrong for Barclays to offer a buy to let mortgage to 
Mrs W. There was always the option of selling the property. It follows that I wont be asking 
Barclays to take any further action. 
I should make it clear that I havent looked into, or made any findings about, Barclays 
decision not to extend the term of Mrs Ws mortgage. This was the subject of a separate 
complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman