DRN-2452117
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) didnt carry out an 
annual service on her boiler under her home emergency policy. 
Mrs S is represented by Mr S on this case. For ease, I will normally only refer to Mr S.
  
What happened
Mr S arranged an annual service under Mrs Ss British Gas policy. The appointment was 
rescheduled a few times. So, Mr S complained to British Gas.
When British Gas replied, it said it was cancelling all non-essential engineer visits due to 
Covid-19. This included annual services. British Gas said it would continue to collect 
payments because it would still attend if there was an emergency. However, it said if Mr S 
was experiencing financial hardship, he could take a payment holiday of up to three months.
British Gas then sent a further response which said that when a repair was carried out on the 
boiler, an annual service was also carried out. However, it offered to carry out the boiler 
annual service again during a visit to deal with a fireplace.
When Mr S complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said 
it was reasonable for British Gas to offer to carry out the annual service again when it visited 
about the fireplace. However, he said British Gas should pay £50 compensation for the 
cancelled appointments.
As Mr S did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. I will explain why.
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions. These said:
annual service - a check in each period of agreement to ensure that your gas boiler, 
appliance or central heating, and ventilation is working safely and in line with the relevant 
laws and regulations.
And 
In periods of local or national high demand for our services (such as cold weather), we 
prioritise breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual service.
Mr S had two annual services that needed to be carried out. One on the boiler and one on a 
fire. Mr S contacted British Gas to make an appointment. The annual service appointment 
was then rescheduled by British Gas due to it prioritising emergency call outs. I think this 
was in line with the terms of the policy. 
British Gas then rescheduled the appointment again a few times. In part, this was because 
of Covid-19 restrictions meaning it couldnt carry out annual services as these were non-
essential. British Gas also explained that its planning agents werent aware that in addition 
to it being an annual service, there was also a problem with the boiler. However, Im aware 
that when Mr S contacted British Gas to say his boiler had stopped working, it logged this as 
a breakdown appointment and an engineer visited the next day.
British Gas internal records seemed to suggest the annual service on the boiler took place 
at the same time as the breakdown visit. Those records also show that the annual service on 
the fire didnt happen during that visit as it was non-essential. Mr S provided the job sheet 
left by the engineer. The safety summary had been filled out and the engineer had written 
some comments about replacing a sensor. However, the words Annual Service were 
crossed out, none of the Additional checks carried out boxes were marked and the 
engineer comments box had a squiggle drawn in it. Mr S also said the annual service wasnt 
carried out. So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that the 
annual service on the boiler didnt happen at that visit.
The annual services took place about three months later, following the restrictions being 
lifted and after the period of agreement had expired. In the circumstances, I think it was 
reasonable for British Gas to carry out the delayed annual services after the period of 
agreement had expired. Im aware that during the annual service on the fire, issues were 
found. However, issues with the fire were looked at by this service as part of a separate 
complaint, so I wont be commenting on that here.
So, Ive thought about all of the above. I can understand that Mr S thought British Gas 
shouldnt have kept moving the annual service appointment and that, given there was an 
issue with the boiler, I can see this might have added to his concerns about the delays. 
British Gas moved the first appointment because of the number of breakdowns it was 
dealing with on that day, which was in line with the terms of the policy. Covid-19 restrictions 
then came into force and British Gas wasnt able to carry out annual services for a while.
However, I think that due to an error in British Gas records it looked like the boiler annual 
service had taken place during the breakdown visit when it hadnt happened. I think this 
caused confusion when British Gas responded to Mr Ss complaint. Given that Mr S had 
already had the annual service cancelled on a few occasions, albeit primarily because of 
government restrictions, I think this added to an already frustrating situation. The onus was 
then on Mr S to show that the annual service hadnt taken place in order for it to be arranged 
for a later date, which I dont think was fair. As a result, I think British Gas should pay some 
compensation. 
 
Putting things right
British Gas should pay £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
confusion around whether the annual service took place during the breakdown visit.  My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. I 
require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs S £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman