DRN-4069368
The complaint
Mr H complains American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) incorrectly calculated 
the amount due to be paid on his credit card account, following a refunded transaction.
What happened
Mr H says he is a long-standing customer of Amex and holds a green card account, which 
from May 2022 effectively changed from being a credit card type facility to a charge card 
account. This meant going forward any new transactions on the card had to be repaid in full 
each month, with the remaining balance he owed prior to this being paid back over time, with 
a requirement of a minimum monthly payment on this element, known as flex select facility 
(flex).
Firstly, Mr H says he never received any notification from Amex about the change that was 
to take place in May 2022. In addition, Mr H says following a transaction he made for a travel 
booking in mid - October 2022 for £172.60, which was cancelled and refunded the same 
day, Amex incorrectly allocated the refund in such a way that meant his total monthly 
payment was hiked up by this amount. 
Mr H says Amex also failed to lodge his earlier complaints on this matter and now wants it to 
correctly allocate the £172.60 refund, refund the £12 late payment fee and compensate him 
for the time he has spent making overseas calls regarding his complaint and the trouble and 
upset this has caused him. 
Amex says the flex select facility was terminated in May 2022, and Mr H was written to about 
that in March 2022. Amex says it has correctly allocated the debit and subsequent same day 
refund to his green card account he holds. Amex says it has apologised for the poor service 
it provided when Mr  H tried to lodge his complaint and paid Mr H £100 for the trouble this 
caused him. Amex says it has made no other errors here. 
Mr H wasnt happy with Amexs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt that Amex had correctly processed the adjustments to his overall balance 
and couldnt see that it had made any mistakes when administering Mr Hs green card 
account. The investigator felt Amex had acted reasonably when it paid Mr H £100 for not 
registering his complaint earlier. The investigator says he didnt feel Amex needed to do 
anything further here. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would be frustrating for Mr H to believe his monthly Amex payment due in 
November 2022 was inflated, due to Amex incorrectly allocating a refund to the flex element 
of his account with them. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Amex were at fault when it allocated a refund 
for a travel booking to Mr Hs flex element of his account with them.
The first thing to say is Mr H and Amex have provided this service with comprehensive 
details and written commentary of the course of events here and while that has proved 
helpful, I wont be commenting on every point made as I dont feel its necessary in order to 
come to a full and impartial decision here. Thats not to say I havent considered everything 
thats been said  I have. 
Its also worth saying its not the role of this service to scrutinise Amexs complaints process 
or to tell Amex how it should deal with complaints more widely. That said Amex have 
acknowledged it could have handled Mr Hs complaint more efficiently and have paid him 
£100 by way of apology and I am satisfied that was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr H initially informed this service he didnt receive the amendments to the terms and 
conditions Amex says it sent in March 2022, but I have seen a copy of the letter it sent to all 
its customers affected by the change, so its not clear why Mr H wouldnt have received it. 
That said Mr H is now aware of those terms and conditions but still feels Amex have made 
mistakes and thats what I will focus on here.  
Mr Hs main complaint centres around the fact Amex incorrectly allocated, in his view, a 
refund of a travel booking in October 2022, to the flex element of his account rather than his 
charge card account. The background to how the charge card and flex select feature of Mr 
Hs Amex green card account changed back in May 2022, is understood by both parties, so I 
wont reiterate whats already known. What is worth saying is that Mr Hs existing green card 
changed to a charge type card for any new transactions thereafter, which needed to be paid 
off in full each month and the remaining balance was to be paid off over time with a minimum 
monthly payment - styled flex. 
Mr Hs contention in simple terms here, is that Amex should have allocated a refund made 
by a travel company of £172.60 on 13 October 2022 to his charge card element of his 
account and not the flex element as this has, in his words, hiked the amount he had to pay 
back on his next monthly statement. 
While I understand Mr H feels strongly about this point, Im not fully persuaded by his 
argument. I say this because Amex would have treated the refund from the travel company 
as a single payment  in those circumstances under its terms and conditions it shows the 
order in which such payments are applied under How we apply payments :
 The payment due on your charge card account; 
 The minimum payment due on your flex select account;
 The remaining flex select account balance appearing on your statement;
So, what happened here was Mr H paid off his October 2022 statement on the 14 October 
2022 which included the charge card balance in full and the flex minimum payment due, 
which totalled £779.75. Amex have explained the refund of £172.60 on 13 October 2022 was treated as a single payment and in view of the fact Mr H had paid his October 2022 bill in full 
for that month, which included the payment due on his charge card account and the 
minimum payment due on his flex select account, I am satisfied Amex correctly allocated the 
refund to the remaining balance on Mr Hs flex select element, as the terms and conditions 
explain. Afterall, as Mr H had already fully repaid his charge card element that month, Amex 
would then only allocate the refund to the flex element, to reduce the interest accruing. 
Although Mr H may not agree, I am satisfied Amex havent made a mistake here for the 
reasons I have explained. 
While Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Amex. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman