DRN-4146406
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Haven Insurance Company Limited declined a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr O drove his car to a petrol garage to fill up with fuel. He went into the garage to pay and 
noticed someone driving the car away. He claimed on his car insurance policy for the theft 
as the car wasnt recovered. 
Haven declined the claim because they said Mr O hadnt locked the vehicle and this was 
clear from the CCTV. Mr O said he locked the car and he is a victim of a sophisticated fraud. 
He thought a jammer might have been used to block the signal between the key and the 
car. As he didnt agree with Haven Mr O complained but Haven maintained its decision to 
decline the claim. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. He found that the CCTV footage of the theft didnt show the car being locked. So, he 
thought it was reasonable for Haven to decline the claim under the term which said it 
wouldnt cover theft if the car wasnt locked. He also wasnt persuaded, on balance, that a 
jammer had been used to prevent the car locking.  
Mr O didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. In summary, he said 
that there were a number of articles in the press about these vehicles being stolen. He also 
said that even if hed gone to check if the vehicle was locked before moving away that it 
would have reopened due to the keyless car technology on that model. So, I need to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Haven has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The starting point is the policy terms and conditions. It says there is no cover for: 
Damage or loss to Your Car, spare parts, Accessories or Personal Belongings by 
theft, attempted theft or unauthorised use when: 
a) Your car (including its boot and bonnet) is unlocked; or 
b) Your Cars windows, sun roof or convertible roof are left open; or 
c) The keys (or other form of Car entry device) have been left in Your Car; or 
d) You have not taken other reasonable precautions to protect Your Car. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Haven to reject the claim because: 
The CCTV doesnt show that the car locked. The lights on this model would usually 
flash and the wing mirrors would fold in. But that didnt happen when Mr O moved 
away from the vehicle. 
Im not persuaded Mr O took reasonable care to ensure that the vehicle was secure. I 
can see that Mr Os hand moved towards his pocket as he moved away from the 
vehicle. Its not possible to say from the CCTV that he was locking the vehicle when 
he did so. But, in any event, Mr O was facing away from the car when he did this and 
its clear from the CCTV footage that the car didnt lock. So, as he wasnt looking at 
the vehicle, he wasnt able to see the visual signs that the car failed to lock as hed 
usually expect.   
I dont think theres persuasive or compelling evidence that a jammer was used in 
the circumstances of this case. Ive thought carefully about Mr Os representations on 
this point. But Haven has pointed out that the CCTV evidence shows that other 
vehicles on the forecourt were still working and receiving signals at around the 
relevant time. I accept that its possible a jammer may have been used. However, I 
dont think thats most likely to have been the case here based on that the evidence 
thats available to me. 
Mr O had the only key to the vehicle. He was still in possession of it after the theft 
and theres no evidence to suggest that a third party was in possession of an 
additional key. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman