DRN-4121058
The complaint
Mr M complains PayrNet Limited, trading as Pockit, blocked his account and have not 
returned the money held in it to him. Mr M says this has caused him financial loss and 
substantive distress and inconvenience.  
To keep things simple, I will refer to Pockit in most of my decision. 
What happened
In November 2021, Pockit reviewed Mr Ms account and restricted his access to it. Around 
that time Mr M received £1,500 into his account and Pockit asked him to provide proof of his 
identity and address, and it asked him to evidence his entitlement to the funds. 
Mr M sent Pockit some information, and explained the funds were a payment for selling a 
puppy. Pockit were not satisfied with this and continued to withhold the funds. Unhappy with 
Pockits actions Mr M complained. 
In response Pockit pointed to one of the account terms. In short, the term said Pockit 
reserves the right to request information or proof of income at any time, and that it can 
suspend the account pending satisfactory resolution. 
Mr M then referred his complaint to this service. In May 2022, Pockit returned the funds held 
in Mr Ms account to source  the remitters account.  
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. In summary, the key findings they 
made were: 
- Pockits decision to review and restrict Mr Ms account was fair and in line with its 
obligations. It also acted in line with its obligations when asking Mr M for information 
about the funds  
- Pockit didnt act fairly and reasonably based on the information Mr M provided to it. If 
it had done so by carrying out a proper investigation, Pockit would likely have acted 
differently and not returned the funds to source
- Pockit should pay Mr M the funds it was holding of £1,498.01 and pay 8% simple 
interest from when Mr M provided it with evidence till settlement. Pockit should also 
pay Mr M £150 in compensation for the inconvenience caused 
- Mr M says being deprived of the funds left him unable to pay for stock for his 
business and put him in deficit with his mortgage. But, as per Mr Ms testimony, the 
money he received was not for business purposes or for his mortgage. And the cost 
of replenishing the business stock was a lot more than the money held. So £150 is 
fair compensation. 
Mr M agreed with what our Investigator recommended, but Pockit did not. Pockit have made 
several points in response, which include: 
- It agrees with the £150 compensation, but not that it should return the money to Mr M 
and with 8% simple interest. It has acted in line with its terms and conditions, and 
Mr M seems to be in touch with the remitter  so he should ask them for the money 
- Pockit should not have to pay out this money twice 
- Mr M couldnt provide adequate information relating to his entitlement to the funds, 
including details of his business of selling puppies 
- Pockit had sufficient concerns to have acted as it did, and this was done so in line 
with its legal and regulatory obligations  
As Pockit didnt agree with what our Investigator said, the complaint has now been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking his 
approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me 
to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr M and Pockit has said 
before reaching my decision. 
I would add that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence 
from regulated businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it 
contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information 
Pockit has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
Financial businesses in the UK, like Pockit, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they 
need to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Pockit point to a myriad of regulations and laws that it must follow as reason for why it 
restricted Mr Ms account, asked him for proof of identity and source of funds, and withheld 
his funds. It adds that as the information Mr M provided wasnt enough for it to satisfy its 
concerns and regulatory obligations, it decided to return them to source. 
Having carefully considered Pockits reasons, and evidence, for restricting Mr Ms account, 
Im satisfied that it did nothing wrong here as it had legitimate concerns. Im also satisfied 
that it did so in line with the legal and regulatory obligations it must meet.
The question then is whether Pockit acted properly when carrying out its due diligence.   
I can see Pockit asked Mr M to send it proof of his identity, address, and source of the funds. Mr M responded promptly to this request. Pockit were not satisfied with the evidence it 
received to show Mr Ms entitlement to the funds.    
Mr M says he sold one of his puppies to someone he had known through his business - and 
that hed known them for a significant period. When our Investigator looked into this 
complaint, they asked Mr M to provide this service with evidence of the sale of the puppy. 
Mr M has sent us several screenshots and other evidence to support this. 
It's not clear what information Mr M sent to Pockit as it hasnt forwarded this to us. But from 
what Ive seen, Im persuaded the £1,500 paid to Mr M was most likely a legitimate 
transaction.  In other words, Im satisfied both from the evidence Ive seen, and Mr Ms 
testimony, that he had received these funds from the sale of his puppy. 
To support this Ive seen screenshots of messages between Mr M and the buyer, registration 
documents for the puppy and a handwritten receipt. I can also see the payment by the 
remitter was made in accordance with messages between them around the time of the 
transaction.  
Mr M has explained he wasnt in the business of selling puppies, but he sold this one to 
someone hed known for a while  especially as he had financial difficulties with his 
unrelated business at the time. I find Mr Ms explanation plausible and persuasive. He has 
been consistent throughout and as Ive said, provided related evidence promptly when 
asked.  
From the screenshots Ive been given by Pockit - from its messages with Mr M when 
carrying out its source of funds investigation - I cant see it asked Mr M any follow up 
questions when he submitted the evidence of his entitlement to the funds. 
Given the concerns Pockit had, Im persuaded it should have done much more to carry out 
its due diligence here. To be clear, I agree it has important obligations to follow when it 
restricted the account and decided to carry out a proof of entitlement exercise. But I would 
have expected this proof of entitlement or due diligence exercise to have been carried out 
more reasonably and fairly. 
I think had Pockit probed and asked Mr M for further information about the sale, it would 
have, as I am, satisfied itself that Mr M was entitled to these funds. I havent seen anything 
else to show the sale of the puppy was in dispute either with the buyer. So it follows that I 
think Pockit shouldve done more and by not doing so has wrongly returned the funds to the 
remitter. 
Pockit says Mr M knows who he sold the puppy to, so he should simply get the money from 
them. But its clear Mr M hasnt had these funds returned to him since they were returned in 
2022. Mr M says he knew this individual through his business which was collapsing at the 
time in 2021. So I think its reasonable he hasnt been able to recover these funds 
personally. And as Ive said, they were returned wrongly by Pockit. 
Because of this, Im persuaded Pockit should pay Mr M the money it says it returned to the 
remitter and that he was entitled to. From the statement Ive been given, I understand that 
amount is £1,498.01. I also think Pockit should pay Mr M 8% simple interest on this amount 
from when Mr M first sent Pockit evidence of his entitlement in December 2021 up until 
settlement. 
Mr M has also explained his business premises fell into dilapidation from weather damage 
and the insurance cover the landlord said he had would not cover the damage caused. Mr M says that being deprived of these funds didnt allow him to put it towards the cost of 
replenishing stock related to his ailing business at the time of £3,000. He also says that he 
couldnt meet his mortgage payment nor pay bills because he used those funds for his 
business.
Mr M hasnt been able to provide evidence of the insurance claim and says he left the 
landlord on bad terms. And he has given me a copy of his mortgage providers letter which 
shows he was a months payment in arrears around January 2023. 
Ive already decided to award 8% simple interest on the funds and thats because Mr M 
didnt have the money available to use. Mr M says hes suffered financial loss because he 
couldnt use the funds for his business and maintain an income stream. 
But the funds were around a half of what he needed to buy his stock, and its clear the 
business was already ailing significantly at the time after a failed insurance claim. I also note 
the evidence Mr M has sent of being in mortgage arrears is from January 2023. This is quite 
some time after the funds were withheld in 2021. So I cant put too much weight on this 
argument. 
Mr M has also explained he suffered substantive distress and inconvenience by not having 
access to the funds. He says it affected his ability to support his family too. Mr M accepted 
that £150 was fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience he suffered. Having 
weighed this up, Im satisfied it is fair compensation.  
Lastly, I note Pockit closed Mr Ms account. I havent seen the notice of closure which would 
show in what time frame the account was closed. Mr M doesnt appear to have complained 
about the closure.
Given what Ive said above about the due diligence failings on Pockits part, its possible 
Pockit wouldnt have closed the account had it done things as it ought to. But Mr M says he 
didnt use the account much at all, and he had at least another external account for his main 
banking requirements. So I dont think hes suffered any loss by the account being closed by 
Pockit nor would it have caused him any distress or inconvenience that warrants any 
compensation.  
Putting things right
For the reasons above, to put things right Pockit must: 
- Pay Mr M £1,498.01
- Pay 8% simple interest on £1,498.01 from when Mr M sent it information about his 
proof of entitlement to the funds in December 2021 up until settlement*
- Pay Mr M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused** 
*If Pockit considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
** Pockit must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr M accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the deadline 
date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. PayrNet Limited must now put things 
right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.  
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman