the complaint
Mr M complains, in summary, that Covea Insurance plc's settlement offer for his car is less 
than he needs to buy a replacement vehicle of the same age and specification.
what happened
Mr M's car was involved in an accident and, when the damage was assessed, it was 
deemed to be beyond economic repair.  But Mr M considers that Covea's eventual offer - of 
just under £20,000, after deducting the policy excess - is about £4,000 less than he needs to 
buy an equivalent replacement vehicle.
Our investigator said that, whilst it is not for us to determine what a car is worth - but rather 
to determine whether or not Covea had acted reasonably and in accordance with
Mr M's policy - she considered that Covea had done so because its offer was a fair reflection 
of the car's market value. In asking for his complaint to be reviewed, Mr M said - in 
summary:
on-line vehicle valuations are theoretical, and are not necessarily reflective of what it
actually costs to buy an equivalent replacement;
whilst there is often an element of negotiation when buying a vehicle, a difference of
about 18% between the asking price and Covea's settlement offer is too great; and
he doesn't think the relevant policy terms and conditions were set out clearly enough
at the outset.
what Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
overall conclusion as the investigator did, for much the same reasons.
Mr M's policy says, amongst other things, that the maximum amount it will pay out is the 
market value of the vehicle - less any excess. This is how most car insurance policies work, 
and in my view this was sufficiently clearly set out in the policy and relevant supporting 
documents.
However, the main focus of Mr M's complaint is that he doesn't think he can buy an 
equivalent car for the money Covea has offered him.  He's seen similar cars advertised for 
between £3,000 and £4,000 more - and he's particularly concerned that his car's low 
mileage and the extras fitted to it haven't been properly taken into account. 
As the investigator outlined, insurers have access to a number of trade guides which they 
use to determine a car's fair market value.  We have access to the same guides.  They show 
that, even after taking account of all the extras fitted to Mr M's car and allowing for its lower-
than-average mileage, Covea made him a fair and appropriate offer. 
DRN-1000311Moreover, before Covea made its offer to Mr M it cross-checked it against a number of 
similar vehicles that were then on the market.  Whilst it's true that some of these cars were 
advertised for more than the amount it had offered, others - again, with a similar specification 
and mileage - were very much in line with it.
I therefore find, in all the circumstances, that in making the market-value offer it did to
Mr M, Covea acted fairly and reasonably towards him and in line with the terms and 
conditions of his policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr M's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2019.
David Millington
ombudsman