DRN-3869820
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with a hire purchase agreement taken with Oodle Financial Services 
Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance (Oodle). Mr H says he had a pre-approved 
application on a lower interest rate, but ended up with a higher rate of interest. 
What happened
Around April 2022 Mr H says he applied for car finance with Oodle and was given a pre-
approved rate of 9.3% APR. It appears Mr H could only use this pre-approved rate if he 
acquired a car at certain dealers.
Mr H then went to a dealer who Ill refer to as C and acquired a used car. He says he spoke 
to Oodle who told him it didnt work with C. Mr H says he then arranged a hire purchase 
agreement brokered by C, but later realised the finance was provided by Oodle.
The agreement Mr H entered into was for an amount of £9,000, with an APR of 13%.
Mr H was unhappy with this and complained to Oodle. He said it should honour the original 
rate of 9.3% APR.
Oodle issued its final response in June 2022. It said, in summary, that it had spoken to Mr H 
on the day he acquired the car, but Mr H told it he was in the process of getting a different 
finance agreement and requested to close his open application. Oodle said it explained to 
Mr H that it didnt work directly with C. 
Oodle explained it used different lending criteria for internal applications and applications 
through third parties. It explained this is why the newer application had a different interest 
rate. Oodle said its underwriters had reviewed the situation but it was unable to change the 
interest rate on the agreement. It said Mr H had agreed to the new terms and interest rate 
when he signed the credit agreement.
Oodle said that it shouldve explained that it didnt work directly with C in more detail to 
Mr H when it spoke to him, so it said it would pay Mr H £50 to reflect this.
Mr H remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator issued an opinion and explained she didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She said, in summary, that she thought Mr H had ended the initial application and 
arranged a new one through C, so she didnt think Oodle had done anything wrong by 
processing the new application on the new rate. She said she thought £50 was fair to reflect 
the fact the explanation to Mr H couldve been clearer.
Mr H remained unhappy. He said, in summary, that Oodle clearly told him it didnt deal with 
C which is why he closed the initial application. And he said the lending was costing him 
around £800 more because of what happened.
Our investigator explained this didnt change her opinion. So the case was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer Oodle has made to put things right is fair and reasonable. Ill 
explain why.
Mr H complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Hs 
complaint about Oodle.
What I need to consider here is whether Oodle have treated Mr H fairly and reasonably or if 
it needs to do something further to put things right.
Mr H has told us he only withdrew from the initial application because Oodle told him it didnt 
work with C. I think there may be some misunderstanding here, as it appears Mr H couldnt 
have got the pre-approved rate if he acquired a car through C whatever happened. But, 
either way, Im satisfied its most likely this wasnt the case. I say this because of what was 
discussed on the call from the time. 
Oodle calls Mr H and says it wants to discuss his initial application and the next steps to 
acquire a car. But Mr H says hes just acquired a car and applied for finance for it. Its then 
explained to Mr H that Oodle dont work with C directly.  So, Im satisfied its most likely Mr H 
had already applied for the new finance agreement at this point.
Given this, Im satisfied its most likely Mr H stopped his initial application after he already 
agreed to take other finance. I appreciate his frustration that the newer application was on a 
higher rate. But, I dont think Oodle did anything wrong by processing the new application 
with the new rate, as it appears Mr H wished to acquire a car through C. And, Im satisfied it 
isnt obligated to change the rate on the agreement Mr H took.
Ive also considered whether Mr H wouldve been aware of the rate he took under the new 
application. I can see on the credit agreement Mr H signed, it says APR 13% under the 
heading Costs of the credit. So, I think Mr H wouldve been aware the interest rate on the 
second application was different to the rate on the pre-approved one. Im satisfied he 
wouldve been aware of what the interest rate was. And it appears he was happy to acquire 
the car through C under the terms of this agreement.
That being said, Im satisfied that Oodles explanation on the phone at the time wasnt 
particularly clear to Mr H and it couldve given him a better explanation about the fact it didnt 
work directly with C and what this meant. Im satisfied the offer of £50 fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience caused by this.My final decision
Oodle Financial Services Limited  trading as Oodle Car Finance has made an offer to pay 
Mr H £50. 
My final decision is that I think this offer is fair and reasonable under the circumstances of 
this complaint.
So, I instruct Oodle Financial Services Limited  trading as Oodle Car Finance to pay Mr H 
£50, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman