DRN-2136276
The complaint
Miss P says Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out by phone in 2005. The policy gave 
Miss P accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. M&S disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ps complaint. 
M&S recommended the PPI to Miss P so it had to make sure it was right for her. And it had 
to provide enough information so she could make an informed decision.  I think if M&S had 
given Miss P better advice and information about the policys costs and benefit, its unlikely 
she wouldve taken it out. 
I have reviewed the call guide that M&S says its adviser would have followed and I dont 
think the information M&S gave Miss P was clear or complete. Miss P was told what the cost 
was per £100 of outstanding balance would be, but M&S doesnt seem to have explained 
that the premium would be added to her credit card balance and could attract interest. And I 
cant see that M&S pointed out that the benefit was actually less than it stated in real terms, 
as Miss P would have to continue paying the premium while receiving the policy benefit.
I think this would have mattered to Miss P. Shes told us at the time of sale she was entitled 
to three months full pay and three months half pay and had easily-accessible savings of 
£10,000. So, she doesnt appear to have had a strong need for the policy, given the level of 
benefit it paid out and the other ways she had to meet the credit card repayments for a while 
without it.
So, overall, I dont think Miss P wouldve wanted to take out the policy if shed been better 
advised and informed so she understood its cost and limited benefit to her.
It follows I think Miss P lost out because of what M&S did wrong.
Putting things right
M&S should put Miss P in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
A. M&S should find out how much Miss P would have owed when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
M&S should then refund the difference between what Miss P owed when she closed 
her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, M&S can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her. Similarly it can take off any 
commission refund already paid.  
B. M&S should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss P would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when M&S works out what Miss P would have owed each month without PPI  
Miss P paid more than enough to clear her balance, M&S should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss P paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss P wouldve owed M&S something on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
D. M&S should tell Miss P what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires M&S to take off tax from this interest. M&S must give Miss P a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint and Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc must put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman