DRN-2840353
The complaint
Mr M and Ms C complain that Target Servicing Limited (Target) made mistakes when 
setting up a direct debit for their help to buy loan.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties so Ive summarised events.
Mr M and Ms C have a help to buy loan that is administered by Target.
In September 2020 they received their annual statement which said their outstanding 
balance was nil. The next month they received a letter saying they were £49 in 
arrears. Upon calling Target, Mr M and Ms C were told these costs were for unpaid 
management fees  and as no direct debit had been set up these arrears had 
accumulated.
Mr M and Ms C complained  saying they had set up a direct debit. Target 
investigated and agreed it was at fault for the direct debit not being in place. It said 
this had been caused by system migration issues. Target said however the fees were 
still outstanding.
Our investigator considered the complaint and upheld it. She said it was fair for 
Target to request the sums owed in line with the terms of the loan. But she said it 
was clear the arrears letter sent by Target had been confusing and inconvenient. She 
said Target should pay £75 in compensation.
Following this Target wrote to Mr M and Ms C directly to say it had made a mistake 
and the management fee in question didnt apply at all to their loan. Following further 
back and forth the investigator increased the compensation recommendation to £100 
for the ongoing mistakes.
Target disagreed, saying it had seen a previous similar case from the service where 
no compensation had been awarded and would agree to £25 only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
In this case Target has now confirmed that it sent the arrears letter by mistake. It has 
also confirmed that no management fee applies to the customer and sent Mr M and 
Ms C a letter stating this. 
This means Mr M and Ms C do not owe £49 as Target had previously said. Its also 
clear from both parties that this sum was never taken by Target. So, Mr M and Ms C 
havent lost out financially as a result of this mistake.
But its clear to me that Target has caused Mr M and Ms C distress and 
inconvenience as well as confusion by initially sending the arrears letter, and 
subsequently still incorrectly requesting the £49 within its final response letter.
Our investigator has previously outlined the impact of these mistakes on Mr M and 
Ms C in detail, and for these reasons Im directing Target to pay £100 in 
compensation. 
Target made reference to a separate complaint where no award was made. However 
within its comments it recognises that this service looks at individual cases on its own 
merits  and thats what has happened here. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Target Servicing Limited must pay Mr M and Ms C £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman