DRN-3694710
The complaint
Mr O complains to Tickmill UK Ltd about delays incurred when attempting to add funds to his 
trading account. As a result of the delays, several of his positions were closed, crystallising 
losses which he says he would otherwise have been financially able to withstand. Mr O has 
said he is now in a difficult financial situation  he seeks compensation for the losses and for 
missed profit had the positions been reinstated at the time.
What happened
Mr O has had a leveraged trading account with Tickmill since February 2017. In June 2018, 
he was reclassified as a professional client. 
On 9 September 2020, Mr Os account was on margin call due to the equity falling below the 
margin requirements. He tried a number of times to deposit money to his account to avoid 
his open positions being closed out. 
At 9:17am, Mr O deposited $2,490  but this didnt clear until later that day at 6:15pm. He 
made another nine attempts to fund the account. One was successful, with him adding 
$1,000 at 9:57am  but this didnt clear until after 9am the next day. The remaining eight 
attempts were all unsuccessful. These were:
  9:24am - $1,290
  9:38am - $2,100
  9:40am - $1,600
  9:44am - $1,700
  9:47am - $1,500
  9:50am - $1,000
10:02am - $   900
  2:36pm - $   750
As Mr Os payments were unsuccessful, and with the market moving against him, once his 
margin requirement was breached Tickmill began closing some of his positions out to reduce 
his exposure. This continued throughout the afternoon in various phases.
Mr O discussed the situation with Tickmill that afternoon, and a complaint was later raised. 
Tickmill looked into what hed said, but ultimately felt they were right to close his positions 
given he hadnt funded his account. 
Remaining unhappy with this, Mr O asked for our help. One of our investigators considered 
the complaint but didnt think that Tickmill had done anything wrong. She said that the 
payments werent approved by Mr Os card provider and Tickmills terms had noted that 
such issues can occur. She also noted that it remained Mr Os responsibility to ensure his 
account had a sufficient balance to maintain his positions.
Mr O remained unhappy. Hes sent us a lot of correspondence since our investigator issued 
her view and hes also shared some of his personal circumstances with us too.  Some of the 
main points Mr O has raised are:
Tickmill hadnt asked him to a sign any contract, nor will they be able to show a date 
for the contract as it does not exist. He signed up with Tickmill on 14 February 2017  
this was important to note as Tickmill were trying to associate contracts with him that 
have nothing to do with him  notably the one shared was dated June 2017, which 
was therefore after hed signed up.
While our investigator had pointed to a risk document, this wasnt relevant to what 
hed experienced.
The issue was that his money wasnt instantly credited to his account  he felt it was 
a trap for Tickmill customers.
He hadnt had any problems when he had a smaller account balance  problems only 
occurred when he had more money to lose, so he felt Tickmill had caused funding 
issues on purpose.
If Tickmill refunded his losses, they wouldnt be losing any money as theyd made a 
lot more from him overall. 
Tickmill hadnt denied theyd made a mistake  instead, they have suggested him 
opening further positions confused things. 
He shared examples of two decisions issued by our service  one was an example of 
a business being asked to refund losses to a consumer who couldnt close a trade 
placed when the market was closed, and the other was an example of a payment 
provider being asked to refund a transfer which had not reached its intended 
destination. 
He later shared another decision issued by our service where a consumer had 
problems funding a trading account and some compensation had been awarded. 
Mr O asked me to consider this as he felt it helped his case, where money taken from 
his card had intentionally not been added to his account. 
Hed been on our website and considered the spread betting and contracts for 
difference guidance page for businesses  he said Tickmill hadnt required him to 
maintain margin and that hed deposited money to stop positions being closed but 
Tickmill had prevented him from doing so. 
That hed been in touch with the regulator, the FCA, about his case and theyd 
pointed him to the Principles within their handbook, namely Principle Six which says, 
[a] firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
Mr O doesnt think Tickmill have adhered to Principle Six and asks that I consider it. 
And he reiterated the difficulties he was experiencing as a result of what had 
happened  the economic situation in his country means inflation is making it even 
harder to service his debts. Hed tried to get support with his finances, but said no 
one had been able to help, so the outcome of his case is extremely important to him.
Mr O also shared comments from a friend working in the relevant legal field. They said, in 
short, that the delay in adding funds was Tickmills issue  them asking Mr O to have 
informed them doesnt excuse their system failure. And that while Tickmills terms may have 
said Mr O needed to notify them of the issue, the terms wed relied on werent a legally 
binding document. 
Mr Os complaint was referred for decision and passed to me. I issued provisional findings in 
May and said:I recognise how important the outcome of this complaint is to Mr O, given the 
difficulties hes shared with us. I also recognise that delays have added to his 
distress, but I must assure him that the work I have been doing to establish the facts 
has been to ensure the outcome he receives is fair and reasonable given all the 
circumstances. 
The crux of Mr Os complaint is that Tickmill didnt accept the payments he was 
making and when they later did, it was too late to prevent the closing of his trading 
positions. In order to consider this for him, Ive thought about the terms of his 
account, looked at his payment attempts and at his account equity on the day in 
question. Ive also considered the regulators rules and guidance, the guidance on 
our website and the other decisions Mr O considers relevant. And Ive kept his 
personal circumstances in mind, recognising the impact this complaint has on his 
situation. Having done so, I have also considered Mr Os categorisation as a 
professional client. 
Concerns about the terms and conditions
Opening an account of this nature with Tickmill will have required Mr O to have 
agreed to their terms and conditions. I appreciate Mr O doesnt remember doing so 
and hes pointed out concerns about the date of the contract which had been relied 
on. But I note our investigator shared terms and conditions dated April 2016 which 
were in force when Mr O opened his account in February 2017. Though I appreciate 
Mr Os concerns and understand he may not remember the steps involved in the 
account opening process given it was some time ago, I dont think its likely hed have 
opened his account without agreeing to Tickmills terms and conditions. So on 
balance, I think they apply here.
Issues with depositing money
As mentioned, Mr O tried to fund his account ten times on 9 September 2020  only 
two of these attempts were successful. Ive considered the eight failed attempts  
most were in the morning, with one in the afternoon. Our investigator looked into this, 
but all Tickmill could tell us is that the payments failed with an error of do not 
honour. This is an error on Mr Os side of the transaction  whether it be his bank or 
another party such as a payment services firm  and not an error on Tickmills side. 
So theyve not been able to share further details as to why the payments were not 
honoured. 
Ive thought carefully about this, but I dont agree Tickmill ought to be accountable for 
failures theyre not responsible for. So I dont agree theyve done anything wrong with 
respect to these eight attempts.
Looking at the other two successful attempts, the first at 9:17am for $2,490 cleared 
within a minute. But the second at 9:57am for $1,000 didnt clear until the next 
morning, around 23 hours later. 
Ive looked into this as while Tickmills term 21.7 says, [i]f you make a payment by 
bank transfer, by credit card or any other method of electronic money transfer, we 
shall credit your Trading Account with the funds within one Business Day... I take Mr 
Os point in that Tickmills website instead says card payment processing times are 
instant. 
However, having considered screenshots from Tickmills systems, I can see that this 
payment did initially fail on Mr Os side of the transaction, however, a minute later the provider created a new deposit attempt which was then successful. As this attempt 
had the same reference number, Tickmills system had considered the payment a 
failure. And this wasnt recognised until Mr O called them later that day. As Mr O 
called after the funding team had finished for the day, the amount wasnt added to his 
account until the following morning.
Given I have seen evidence of the initial failure and that the subsequent reattempt 
was under the same reference, I can understand why the system didnt automatically 
recognise the transaction as successful  so I dont agree Tickmill unfairly delayed 
Mr Os deposit contribution. And while there is a disparity between the timeframes set 
on Tickmills website and whats said in their terms, this wasnt the reason for the 
delay in Mr Os $1,000 being credited to his account. So having considered the ten 
deposit attempts, I dont agree Tickmill prevented Mr O from funding his account as 
he alleges. 
At 20.8, Tickmills terms also say, [i]t is your responsibility to notify us as soon as 
you believe that you will be unable to meet a Margin payment when due. I see Mr O 
made nine of the ten deposit attempts in the morning of 9 September 2020, but five 
hours passed before Tickmill first began closing positions on Mr Os account. 
While I appreciate that he doesnt think this changes anything, it does show Mr O had 
time to contact Tickmill to let them know he was trying to manage his margin. I can 
see he was trading on his account that day, so he was monitoring the account  and 
trying to trade to manage things  but theres nothing to show he contacted Tickmill 
for help before the positions were closed. Though we cannot be sure whether 
Tickmill could have helped or the outcome would ultimately have been different, the 
$1,000 could have been identified sooner and credited. 
Margin requirement
Within the terms, section 20 covered margin requirements. At 20.1, it said:
Where applicable, you shall provide and maintain the Initial Margin and/or Necessary 
Margin in such sums as we, in our sole discretion, may require from time to time 
under the Agreement. It is your responsibility to ensure that you understand how 
Margin is calculated. If you have any doubt about the Margin requirement for a 
particular Order, please contact our client services team.
So while Mr O pointed to the guidance on our website and felt Tickmill didnt require 
margin from him  they did. 
At 20.7, it said:
You undertake to provide us with and maintain on your Account at all times, sufficient 
cleared funds in order to meet the Margin requirement for your transactions. You 
agree that a failure to meet the Margin requirement at any time will result in the 
closing out of some or all of your open positions without prior notice to you. This 
process is automatically triggered when your Trading Accounts ratio of Equity to 
Margin falls below 30%. The position with the greatest negative balance will be 
closed first and so on until the Trading Accounts ratio has reached parity.
So it was for Mr O to manage his margin, with Tickmill able to close positions if this 
fell below 30%. Ive considered Mr Os account equity on 9 September 2020. Mr O 
had several positions open that day, and Tickmill closed positions in two phases, just 
before 3pm and again just before 4pm:
-at 2:53pm, the required margin was $3,536.10, but Mr Os account equity was 
$1,058.60. As this was 29.93% of the requirement, I see why Tickmill began 
closing positions-at 3:56pm, the required margin was $3,207.90, but Mr Os account equity had 
fallen to $944.80. This was 29.5% of the required margin, so I again see why 
Tickmill began closing out positions. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied Tickmill had the right to close positions, and that 
they exercised that right appropriately as Mr Os account equity had fallen below 
30%. 
Mr Os other points 
Mr O has said he feels the deposit issues were intentionally caused by Tickmill given 
he had a larger account balance and more to lose. But as explained above, I cant 
see evidence to support this. The majority of the attempts failed on Mr Os side of the 
transaction, such as his card provider rejecting the requests. Precisely why this 
happened isnt clear, it could have happened for many different reasons. But, any 
decision to prevent the payment wasnt something Tickmill couldve had any 
involvement or influence over. As such I cant say Tickmill is responsible for the 
problems Mr O had trying to add funds to his trading account.
Ive considered the decisions Mr O has highlighted, but I dont agree they change the 
outcome of his complaint  while those cases involved trading and transfers, the 
circumstances are not the same. I have also considered the guidance Mr O pointed 
to, but I dont agree this changes things either. Id also like to confirm that Ive also 
thought about Principle Six, however I dont agree theres evidence to show Tickmill 
havent had regard for Mr Os interests or that they havent treated him fairly in 
relation to the deposit attempts and close out. 
I dont think Tickmill are responsible for the eight failed deposits, or with regards to 
the delayed deposit  on the whole, the issues were outside of Tickmills control and 
the account could only be credited where payments were successful. I also dont 
think Tickmill did anything wrong when closing some of the positions  the terms Mr 
O agreed to clearly stated that managing his balance was his responsibility, so as 
cleared funds werent available, Tickmill havent treated him unfairly by closing the 
positions they did in these circumstances.
Mr Os categorisation as professional client
Our service has an inquisitorial remit when considering complaints  this means 
were able to look at whats relevant to a complaint, even if it hasnt been specifically 
outlined by the consumer, in order to consider what would be a fair and reasonable 
conclusion. I say this because in the course of investigating the deposit issue Mr O 
complained about, Tickmill shared information with us about his multiple trading 
accounts and his status as a professional client. Given Mr Os circumstances and 
what hes told us about the losses hes faced, I think how he came to be a 
professional client is relevant so Ive considered his this further. 
The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) set out the tests which Tickmill 
needed to apply when deciding whether it was appropriate for Mr O to trade 
leveraged products (COBS 10).  The answers Mr O gave to the appropriateness 
assessment which Tickmill carried out in 2017 allowed him to open an account given 
hed indicated he had enough experience with leveraged products to understand the 
risks involved. But at that point, Mr O was considered a retail client. It was in June 2018 that Mr O 
became an elective professional client. COBS 3.5.3 set out what Tickmill needed to 
consider in order to reclassify Mr O. At the time, the relevant rules said:
COBS 3.5.3R
A firm may treat a client other than a local public authority or municipality as 
an elective professional client if it complies with (1) and (3) and, where applicable, (2):
(1) the firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience and 
knowledge of the client that gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature of 
the transactions or services envisaged, that the client is capable of making his 
own investment decisions and understanding the risks involved (the "qualitative 
test");
(2) in relation to MiFID or equivalent third country business in the course of that 
assessment, at least two of the following criteria are satisfied:
(a) the client has carried out transactions, in significant size, on the relevant 
market at an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous four 
quarters;
(b) the size of the client's financial instrument portfolio, defined as including 
cash deposits and financial instruments, exceeds EUR 500,000;
(c) the client works or has worked in the financial sector for at least one year in 
a professional position, which requires knowledge of the transactions or 
services envisaged;
(the "quantitative test"); and
(3) the following procedure is followed:
(a) the client must state in writing to the firm that it wishes to be treated as 
a professional client either generally or in respect of a particular service or 
transaction or type of transaction or product;
(b) the firm must give the client a clear written warning of the protections and 
investor compensation rights the client may lose; and
(c) the client must state in writing, in a separate document from the contract, 
that it is aware of the consequences of losing such protections.

COBS 3.5.6R
Before deciding to accept a request for re-categorisation as an elective professional 
client a firm must take all reasonable steps to ensure that the client requesting to be 
treated as an elective professional client satisfies the qualitative test and, where 
applicable, the relevant quantitative test.
So Tickmill needed to take all reasonable steps when considering the qualitative and 
quantitative tests. I asked Tickmill what they did with regards to this  they shared 
what theyd considered in relation to COBS 3.5.3 (2). 
Mr O had answered questions about the size and frequency of his trades, as well as 
the value of his investment portfolio  the questions were, was the average number 
of significant trades you have made per quarter over the last year greater than 10? 
and is the current value of your investment portfolio greater than or equal to 500,000 
EUR?. Both of Mr Os answers were simply yes. Mr O then clicked to confirm he 
understood the implications of reclassification. 
Tickmill have confirmed that Mr Os trading history allowed them to consider he met 
COBS 3.5.3 (2) (a) and that they could see he had carried out transactions, in significant size, on the relevant market at an average frequency of 10 per quarter 
over the previous four quarters. But with regards to his answer to 3.5.3 (2) (b) they 
said theyd relied on his self-assessment  and that this was acceptable given that 
the changes to the rules brought about by the European Securities and Markets 
Authority (ESMA) werent in force until August that year. 
Ive thought carefully about what Tickmill have said. But regardless of the new ESMA 
rules (which Tickmill will have known about at the time), COBS from not only early 
2018 but also 2007 still required Tickmill to take all reasonable steps. And in my 
view, the requirement to take reasonable steps extended further than allowing Mr O 
to tick some boxes and to effectively self-certify himself as an elective professional. 
On this point, I note the ESMA Q&A document was updated in May 2018  before 
Mr Os reclassification  and the client categorisation section clarified the meaning of 
taking reasonable steps, warning against self-certification:
In addition, in accordance with the second paragraph of Section II.2, investment firms 
are expected to take all reasonable steps to ensure that a retail client that requested 
to be treated as a professional client meets the requirements of Section II.1. Whilst 
investment firms should use their discretion to determine the reasonable steps 
needed, they should avoid relying solely on self-certification by the client and should 
consider obtaining further evidence to support assertions that the client meets the 
identification criteria at that point in time, notably when they consider that the 
documents or statements received from the clients are not sufficiently conclusive.
Here there is no evidence to show Tickmill considered documents or statements, let 
alone as to whether they were sufficiently conclusive or not. Instead, they relied on 
Mr Os self-certification which was not in the spirit or intention of the rules. 
The rules were clear in that the requirement on Tickmill of assessing the professional 
nature of Mr O was a higher bar than what they needed to do when allowing him to 
open the account in the first place  this is because in choosing to be treated as an 
elective professional client, Mr O gave up protections like increased margin 
requirement and negative balance protection which would reduce the possibility of 
significant financial losses. 
In my view, Tickmill didnt do enough to satisfy themselves Mr O met the criteria to be 
considered as an elective professional client. And from what we now know about Mr 
Os financial situation, it seems more likely than not that he would not have met the 
requirements  in particular, he did not have a large enough portfolio and was not 
employed in a role or profession which conferred on him specific knowledge of 
leveraged products. By incorrectly classifying him as a professional, Tickmill exposed 
Mr O to risks which he ought not to have been exposed to and treated him unfairly, 
so we must consider what the impact of these was. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Mr O should have been allowed to trade as a professional client, I 
have thought about how we could put him back into the position he would have been 
in had his professional client application been declined. 
From everything Ive seen, I still think Mr O would have continued to trade with 
Tickmill as a retail client. And Ive nothing to suggest he wouldnt have traded with 
similar frequency and interest in the same instruments. So I dont think it would be 
right to ask Tickmill to refund all of the losses hes made, as those losses were a result of his trading decisions which he is likely to have still made  albeit perhaps on 
a smaller scale  as a retail client. 
Instead, what needs to be considered is the difference between the losses Mr O did 
make, and the losses he would instead have made as a retail client. These are likely 
to be less given he wouldnt have had access to higher leverage and may have been 
stopped out sooner than he was. I think its fair and reasonable for Tickmill to 
consider this difference given they enabled Mr O to lose more money than he 
otherwise would have been able to. 
In my view the fairest way of putting things right in this case is for Tickmill rework the 
trades Mr O made after 12 June 2018 as if he had placed them as a retail client. 
Tickmill should then compare the total Mr O wouldve lost as a retail client, with the 
total he lost as a professional client. If there is a difference, it ought to pay this to him. 
But there should be no interest on any compensation sum given we can see Mr O 
carried on trading. 
Due to the volume of trades Mr O placed during this period, it would be reasonable 
for Tickmill to group the trades by instrument in order to work out the additional 
losses suffered.
Lastly, if Mr Os account is still active Tickmill ought to reclassify him as a retail client.  
Following my provisional decision, in July I issued a follow up statement to both parties with 
further thoughts on redress. I said:
I am grateful to both Mr O and Tickmill for their responses to my provisional decision 
issued in May. I write today to share further thought on the approach we may take in 
order to fairly compensate Mr O.
Looking back to my findings, I said:
As I dont think Mr O should have been allowed to trade as a professional client, I 
have thought about how we could put him back into the position he would have been 
in had his professional client application been declined.
From everything Ive seen, I still think Mr O would have continued to trade with 
Tickmill as a retail client. And Ive nothing to suggest he wouldnt have traded with 
similar frequency and interest in the same instruments. So I dont think it would be 
right to ask Tickmill to refund all of the losses hes made, as those losses were a 
result of his trading decisions which he is likely to have still made  albeit perhaps on 
a smaller scale  as a retail client.
Instead, what needs to be considered is the difference between the losses Mr O did 
make, and the losses he would instead have made as a retail client. These are likely 
to be less given he wouldnt have had access to higher leverage and may have been 
stopped out sooner than he was. I think its fair and reasonable for Tickmill to 
consider this difference given they enabled Mr O to lose more money than he 
otherwise would have been able to.
In my view the fairest way of putting things right in this case is for Tickmill rework the 
trades Mr O made after 12 June 2018 as if he had placed them as a retail client. 
Tickmill should then compare the total Mr O wouldve lost as a retail client, with the 
total he lost as a professional client. If there is a difference, they ought to pay this to 
him. But there should be no interest on any compensation sum given we can see 
Mr O carried on trading.Due to the volume of trades Mr O placed during this period, it would be reasonable 
for Tickmill to group the trades by instrument in order to work out the additional losses 
suffered.
Lastly, if Mr Os account is still active Tickmill ought to reclassify him as a retail client.
The key part was that I asked Tickmill to rework Mr Os account as if hed been 
trading as a retail client, rather than a professional client. That would likely, to some 
extent, have limited his losses given things like reduced leverage and earlier close 
outs. 
In response, Tickmill have emphasised the difficulties they have in trying to 
implement these instructions. I take their point and recognise that reworking the 
account is far from straightforward  for example, its likely Mr O wouldnt have been 
able to place as many trades as he did, or at the sizes he did. And its likely Mr O 
wouldve been stopped out sooner than he was. It is difficult to look back at the 
trades and decide which would have been made, at what size, and to work out when 
theyd have been stopped. Picking certain trades out for either going ahead or not 
going ahead risks not only being tainted with hindsight but would also be inaccurate. I 
have also thought about Mr Os responses and I appreciate the difficulty he has in 
trying to establish what position he ought to be in, and that he might need the help of 
an expert to assure him a calculation is correct. 
Having thought about what both parties have said, I propose to amend how I intend 
on asking Tickmill to redress Mr Os case. Rather than reworking his account (which 
appears to involve around 40,000 trades and around 1,000 pages of statements), I 
instead ask Tickmill to take a broader approach by considering how they might 
otherwise reduce Mr Os overall losses down to what he may have instead 
experienced as a retail investor. 
To do this requires considering how much money Mr O lost  it is my understanding 
that after 12 June 2018, Mr O deposited just over $160,000 across his Tickmill 
accounts. It is also my understanding that just over $102,000 was withdrawn from the 
accounts. Though this highlights Mr O lost around $58,000, the figure is actually 
higher  at as there was already money in his account which had been deposited 
before 12 June 2018  and it appears his loss was instead $70,089.98. So this is the 
starting point.
Tickmill have then assessed Mr Os average daily utilisation of equity and margin 
since June 2018  they say this was 1:90. They also say that a retail client would 
average 1:30  so had Mr O have traded as a retail client (and bearing in mind I still 
think hed have traded and is likely to have followed similar trading strategy as to 
positions and timing, just perhaps not size) it seems likely hed have only lost around 
a third of the c$70,000  being around $23,300. Instead of offering to refund Mr O the 
other two-thirds of his losses (being c$46,700), Tickmill have instead offered to settle 
by paying half of this amount  $23,000. They say this is due to the administration 
associated with running his accounts and their need to make profit as a relatively 
small firm.
Ive thought carefully about what Ive seen, but Im not persuaded the two-thirds, nor 
the half of the two-thirds would be fair. Taking the two-thirds point first; the new rules 
say the maximum leverage for retail clients can be 1:30, so I think Mr Os average is 
likely to be lower than this. Thats because although I can see he traded major 
currency pairs, he also had gold positions and S&P500 (1:20) and there may be others warranting lower leverage. So I would ask Tickmill to consider this again to 
check what Mr Os retail exposure ought to have been. 
I also dont think refunding half of whatever figure we arrive at to be fair either. 
Though I appreciate Tickmill have costs, these ought not to have a bearing on the 
outcome for Mr O given the findings are that he should not have been opted-up. Its 
Tickmills commercial discretion as to how they run their business  such as the 
decision to use more expensive payment service providers  so if Mr O was simply 
accessing the features available to him I dont agree he should be penalised for this. 
Mr O also shouldnt have been able to trade as much (whether that be size or 
frequency) as he did, so it isnt right Tickmill benefit from these additional earnings 
from him as they ought not to have facilitated trading over and above the retail 
exposure. 
Tickmill have also explained that they earned $42,000 from Mr Os trades and 
theyve used this as a basis for getting to another counter offer of $14,000  but Im 
not persuaded that Mr O should only have a third of these costs returned as this 
methodology would not be in the spirit of the decision. 
My current thinking is that it would be fair for us to consider Mr Os total losses, and 
to consider what those might have been reduced to had he only have traded as a 
retail client. But I remain of the view that no further reduction applies thereafter. 
I ask that both parties reconsider this amendment to my provisional findings and let 
me know if they have any further comments. More specifically:
oshould Mr O have evidence to show that the figures provided by Tickmill  
being his deposits, withdrawals or losses  are not correct, I invite him to 
share that evidence with me
oand I invite Tickmill to evidence their leverage assessment to me  that is 
both to support the fact that Mr Os average leverage was 1:90, as well as 
what his retail average leverage on similar trades would have been (likely to 
be less than 1:30 but Id like to review the assessment done), so that I can 
review the proposed reduction percentage of losses 
In response to my provisional findings and revised thoughts on redress, Tickmill werent 
happy with my reference to them having to take reasonable steps as per COBS 3.5.6R, or 
with why Id considered Mr Os client categorisation given it was widening the complaint hed 
made. They pointed out that Mr O had requested to be opted-up and that he hadnt been 
forthcoming about changes with his personal situation. 
This aside, to assist with developing the approach to redress they shared details of Mr Os 
deposits and withdrawals from June 2018 onwards. They also shared a spreadsheet 
showing Mr Os leverage and equity utilisation. They said hed lost around $70,000 but had 
he have been a retail client, this would only have been around $16,000. So they suggested 
fair redress might be around $54,000.  
Mr O didnt agree with my provisional findings and revised thoughts on redress either. He 
commented a number of times and some of his points were, in summary:
He was grateful for me looking into his professional status but thought his complaint 
should be split  with one complaint covering the failed deposit issue and another to 
look at his categorisation. 
He had concerns about the account opening process and whether the terms Tickmill 
were seeking to enforce now applied to him and cited unfair contract terms.He didnt agree the failed deposits were issues with his bank  instead, there had 
been a system failure at Tickmills end which was something theyd known about for 
some time but failed to fix. Hed spoken with his bank and theyd confirmed there 
wasnt a problem with his account or card on 9 September 2020  he was welcome 
to us contacting them to check for ourselves. 
Hed had trouble accessing his trading activity given itd been archived following the 
closure of the accounts  but once hed accessed it, he provided his comments on 
the statements hed reviewed. In short, he highlighted that there were inaccuracies, 
that his deposit and withdrawal figures were wrong and that his leverage had been 
1:500, not 1:90. For this reason he considered his losses to be far greater than 
Tickmill had suggested. 
He sent various iterations of calculations hed done to highlight the additional money 
he thought hed lost as a result of being wrongly categorised  he said his losses 
might either be $42066,79, $145,283.85, or $1,307,554.65 and £435,851.55.
And he shared how his personal circumstances were worsening, and that he felt 
Tickmill were exploiting his weaknesses in settling matters. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not been persuaded to depart from my provisional findings. The 
reasoning as outlined above is incorporated into this final decision. The key findings, in 
summary, are that:
I still think the terms and conditions dated April 2016 which were in force when Mr O 
opened his account in February 2017 applied given he wouldnt have been able to 
open his account without them. I cant see they were unfairly changed as he 
suggests.
I dont agree theres evidence to show shortcomings on Tickmills part in relation to 
the eight failed top-ups  the do not honour error codes arent something they could 
overcome, so I cant fairly say theyre responsible. 
I dont agree the two successful top-ups were unreasonably delayed given the fact 
that the initial failures were followed by successful transactions with the same 
reference numbers. Though this was an internal issue for Tickmill, I also recognise 
Mr O had five hours to notify them of the issue in line with 20.8. 
I dont think Tickmill did anything wrong when closing some of the positions following 
a margin call  this was in line with the terms which explained managing his balance 
was Mr Os responsibility. As cleared funds werent available, Tickmill didnt treat him 
unfairly by closing the positions they did in these circumstances.
This aside, given their reliance on self-assessment I dont think Tickmill did enough to 
satisfy themselves Mr O met the criteria to be considered as an elective professional 
client. From what we now know about Mr Os financial situation, it seems more likely 
than not that had they have taken reasonable steps to verify his answers, he would 
not have met the requirements  in particular, he did not have a large enough portfolio and was not employed in a role or profession which conferred on him 
specific knowledge of leveraged products. 
I also dont agree theres a need to split Mr Os complaint into one about the deposit issues 
and one about his categorisation  though one point is a specific issue and another is a 
wider concern about the account, there is no reason for why we must split the issues. Both 
have been given due consideration in my decision.
Ive again thought carefully about how we can put things right. Its clear both Tickmill and 
Mr O have put considerable thought and effort into how we may best approach the question 
of redress and I am thankful to them both for their time. 
From everything I have seen, Ive not been persuaded to depart from the revised position I 
shared in July where I said, in part:
Rather than reworking his account (which appears to involve around 40,000 trades 
and around 1,000 pages of statements), I instead ask Tickmill to take a broader 
approach by considering how they might otherwise reduce Mr Os overall losses 
down to what he may have instead experienced as a retail investor.

it would be fair for us to consider Mr Os total losses, and to consider what those 
might have been reduced to had he only have traded as a retail client. 
I remain satisfied that this approach would be a fair resolution to Mr Os complaint. In saying 
that, I appreciate there is disparity between how each party interprets the methodology. I say 
that because Tickmill consider Mr Os losses to be in the region of $54,000 yet Mr O has 
submitted varying estimations of his losses between anything between $40,000 and 
$1,300,000. For this reason, I will clarify some of the key issues I have identified that have 
led to the disparity:
In one of Mr Os calculations he totaled all of his losses on one of his accounts 
(c$145,000) and compared this against what he thought hed have lost as a retail 
client (c$9,000) so thought his redress ought to be c$136,000. But Mr O had 
separated his losses from his c$133,000 in profits  so Mr O had lost around $12,000 
on that account as a professional, not $145,000. 
But we must not only look at the money Mr O lost when thinking about the 
compensation he is now due, we must also think about the profits he made. Thats 
because it wouldnt be fair to ask Tickmill to compensate him for only his losses, 
without looking at his profits too, as that would leave Mr O in a better position that he 
would have been as a retail client. 
Instead, the approach of comparing total money in with total money out  followed by 
reducing the difference according to average leverage comparisons  will more 
accurately highlight Mr Os losses. 
We must also look across all of Mr Os accounts, rather than to take one as a 
sample. I say this because Mr O suggested we take the above loss figure of 
$145,000 and multiply it by nine given he had nine accounts. But each account 
varied considerably, for example, one has less than 30 trades whereas another had 
in excess of 15,000 trades. So, I dont think taking an example and applying it across 
all accounts will provide us with a fair figure. 
It is right to consider what Mr Os average leverage usage was as although his 
account may have had the scope for him to trade up to 1:500, it may not be the case that this full scope was used. It would therefore be reasonable to compare his 
average usage with what hed have been able to access as a retail investor. 
Tickmill told us Mr Os average leverage was 1:91.35. They also initially proposed to 
redress Mr O based on an average retail leverage of 1:30. However Mr O correctly 
highlighted that he traded asset classes with lower maximum leverage than this. 
Tickmill reconsidered the point and created a comparison between Mr Os 1:91.35 
average and the leverage he couldve applied had he have been a retail client  for 
example 1:20 on gold trades. 
Comparing Mr Os average actual leverage use with what retail leverage he could 
have got on each asset class will be a more accurate approach. 
Though Mr O correctly points out hed likely have been stopped out earlier on trades 
as a retail client, it is far from straightforward to unpick his c40,000 trades in order to 
reconsider each stop out, whether it would have happened sooner and if so, when 
and at what level. 
It may have been the case that getting stopped out sooner mightve contributed to 
smaller losses had the market had continued to move against Mr O. Equally, it 
mightve contributed to bigger losses had a brief spike led to close out when Mr O 
would otherwise have ridden the movement out and ended up in profit. 
It is for these reasons that I remain persuaded that the broader comparison approach 
is a fair and reasonable way of broadly putting Mr O back in the position he wouldve 
been as a retail client. 
The final calculations shared have similarities in approach, but differences in outputs. For 
example, Mr O suggests he deposited just under $266,000 and just over £39,000 into his 
accounts. He also suggests he withdrew just over $193,000 and almost £18,000. So he 
seems to suggest his losses were almost $73,000 and just over £21,000. But as I said 
above, in certain circumstances I have seen that Mr Os calculations havent been accurate. 
Instead, Tickmill say his total loss was just under $71,000 and I find that they have provided 
persuasive evidence of how they came to that figure. For this reason, if after this final 
decision Mr O disagrees with Tickmills calculation, he will need to provide them with clear 
evidence of exactly how he arrives at a different figure. 
If after Tickmill have presented the outcome of their loss calculation to Mr O in a clear and 
understandable way he considers that it does not follow the redress methodology set out in 
this decision, as a last resort he may refer the matter back to me for consideration. But I 
should emphasise to Mr O that there would be no further consideration of the merits of the 
case  only a broad consideration of how Tickmill had calculated redress. Also, he would 
need to show that Tickmill had not followed the redress approach set out in this decision and 
not simply that the outcome of the loss calculation, if carried out correctly, does not coincide 
with his view of the financial loss he believes he has made.
Putting things right
As I dont think Mr O should have been allowed to trade as a professional client, I have 
thought about how we could put him back into the position he would have been in had his 
professional client application been declined. From everything Ive seen, I still think Mr O would have continued to trade with Tickmill as a 
retail client. And Ive seen nothing to suggest he wouldnt have traded with similar frequency 
and interest in the same instruments. 
Putting things right in this set of circumstances has been discussed at length above  the 
points I have considered shape the spirit of this redress direction and should be kept in mind 
by both parties when calculating redress. Fair compensation shall be the difference between 
the losses Mr O did make, and the losses he would instead have made as a retail client. 
Where there is a difference, this ought to be paid to him. But there should be no interest on 
any compensation sum given the nature of the trading. Lastly, if Mr Os account is still active 
Tickmill ought to reclassify him as a retail client.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained, uphold Mr Os complaint and direct Tickmill UK Ltd to 
compensate him as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman