DRN-4033860
The complaint
Mr F complains that his home insurer, Soteria Insurance Limited, trading as Co-op Insurance 
took too long to deal with his claim, communicated poorly, delayed payment and didnt 
consider use of his contractors. References to Soteria include its agents. I have only referred 
to Mr F in this decision.
What happened
Mr F notified Soteria of his claim for damage from an escape of water which affected his 
kitchen in October 2020. Soteria appointed loss adjusters to manage the claim on its behalf. 
The wooden flooring in Mr Fs kitchen and lounge had to be replaced. 
Soterias loss adjusters settled Mr Fs claim in the sum of £9,565 in March 2021 and both 
parties appeared to be content that the claim had been handled properly. However, as the 
repairs were being carried out the contractor discovered further damage from a burst pipe 
and Mr F made a second claim. He said his experience was very different to his first claim. 
Soterias loss adjusters visited in April 2021. Mr F said as the contractors were on site 
making repairs to the first claim, he asked them for a report about the damage. They 
estimated a cost of about £23,000 and Mr F passed this to the loss adjusters for their 
consideration. 
Mr F said he gained the impression from the loss adjusters that it was ok for him to go ahead 
and get the work underway and to move out to alternative accommodation for the duration. 
But the loss adjusters then wanted information about costs of the work. This led Soteria to 
make a cash settlement offer that was far less than Mr F incurred from his contractors. 
In May 2021 Mr F complained to Soteria about its approach to his claim and the lack of 
explanation of the process. He said he had a vulnerable relative staying with them at the 
time and had to treat the incident as an emergency.  
In its response, Soteria apologised to Mr F for his having to chase the payment again and 
paid him £50 compensation and interest of £120. Soteria said its contractors were available 
and so it offered him payment of what it would have cost Soteria had its contractors been 
used. Subsequently, Soteria paid Mr F £350 compensation for poor service during the claim. 
Mr F wasnt satisfied with Soterias response and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said Soteria hadnt made Mr F 
aware that it had contractors available to carry out his repairs and he had a reasonable 
expectation that Soterias payment would cover his costs. He said Soteria didnt clarify to Mr 
F what was and wasnt included within its settlement offer. 
The investigator said Soteria should pay Mr F the difference between the amount he paid the 
contractor and Soterias offer. The parties agreed to this approach but not about the amount 
to be paid. The investigator said Soteria had calculated the sum correctly at £3,593.73 and it 
should pay this to Mr F. The investigator set out the calculations which provide this figure, as 
follows:  
Contractor Costs: £28,302
Decorator: £1,975
Total: £30,277
Deductions:
Flooring Cost (as paid in claim 1) - £7,006.16
Decoration Costs - £630
Policy Excess - £250
Payment Issued: £18,797.11
Total: £26.683.27
£30,277 - £26,683.27 = £3,593.73
Soteria accepted this outcome, but Mr F did not. He said the cost of the flooring paid to his 
contractor had no connection to the second claim, or the contractors invoice. He said he 
didnt have a choice how to use the first claim funds and most of it was for the flooring 
materials and so their value shouldnt be deducted from the second claim. 
Mr F said he decided not to use the flooring firm to fit the flooring and used the funds to pay 
the main contractor. He said the work on the floor didnt include laying it or purchasing the 
materials. He said there was confusion with the contractors invoice as the flooring was 
separate to their invoice of £28,302. Mr F said the investigators calculation of the amount 
owed deducted the value of the flooring in the second claim. He requested his complaint be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F had two claims which overlapped, and this has caused some confusion concerning the 
amount paid in settlement. He hasnt complained to Soteria about the settlement of the first 
claim and so I am only able to consider the events and the sum paid in respect of the second 
claim made by Mr F. 
In common with other home insurance policies, Mr Fs policy allows Soteria to decide if it will 
use its contractors to repair damage or make a payment so that a policyholder can arrange 
this. When an insurer only offers a cash settlement, we would expect this to meet the cost of 
the repairs to the policyholder and Mr Fs policy states this. It follows that an offer below the 
cost to the policyholder where the insurer isnt offering to arrange the repairs would not 
indemnify the policyholder against their loss as required by the policy.
I can understand Mr Fs keenness to get the work underway and as he had contractors on 
site, and this was clearly the quickest solution. Mr F told Soteria he would prefer to use his 
contractors and Soteria didnt respond with any alternative suggestion, but requested a 
detailed schedule for the work. Mr F wasnt told that Soterias payment would be limited to 
what it would cost Soteria to have the work carried out. Had he been given this warning I 
have no doubt he would have explored an alternative solution. 
Mr Fs initial claim was cash settled by Soteria at the cost to Mr F and so he had reasonable 
expectations of similar treatment with his next claim. He notified Soteria of when the work 
would start and Soteria wanted an accurate scope of works but didnt state that costs werent 
approved. Mr Fs contractors challenged Soterias costing of the work and Soteria increased its offer of 
settlement. It appears at this stage that Soteria provided an accurate schedule of the repairs 
required in response to the claim, albeit costed at the cost if Soterias contractors carried out 
the work. Our investigator thought it fair for Soteria not to add costs for decorating and 
cleaning at Mr Fs suggestion and I think this was fair. 
I agree with Mr F that there was an implied acceptance by Soteria of his request to use his 
own contractors for the repairs, and that he wasnt indemnified for the cost of the work. 
I have seen that the settlement accepted by Mr F for the first claim included payment for the 
supply and fitting of the full floor. I know from what he has said that he used his chosen 
contractor for the materials and so incurred an additional cost of about £4,000. This was a 
choice that Mr F was entitled to make but it meant that the settlement of the first claim no 
longer reflected the true cost to Mr F.  
I agree with the investigator that as the difference concerns a payment relating to the first 
claim then this shouldnt be carried over into the present complaint about the second claim. 
The amount allocated for flooring within Soterias scope of works for the second claim should 
be deducted from the overall settlement it pays as this has already been included within the 
first claim. I realise this leaves Mr F dissatisfied with the overall settlement he has received 
and been offered, and it remains open to him to bring a separate complaint about the 
settlement of his first claim if he wishes. 
It follows that I consider the fair and reasonable settlement is that Soteria should pay Mr F 
£3,593.73, being the difference between what Soteria has paid Mr F and what the second 
claim has cost him. 
Although the repairs for both escapes of water were carried out at the same time, the 
damage emanated from two separate claims and so it is correct for Soteria to charge Mr F 
two excess payments. 
I can see that Mr F sought clarification as to what was included within Soterias settlement 
offers and had to pursue the payment. Although the claim was complicated by the overlap of 
the first and second insured events, I think that Mr F received poor service from Soteria and 
its agents and this caused him distress and inconvenience. This included a lack of guidance 
about the claim process, some poor communications and lack of consideration for the 
vulnerable position of his relative. 
Im pleased Soteria accepted that it should have dealt with the claim more efficiently and 
communicated better and apologised to Mr F for its poor communication about the offer of 
settlement. I think its payment of interest and £350 compensation is fair in respect of the 
impact this had on Mr F.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. If Mr F 
accepts this decision, I require Soteria Insurance Limited to pay him £3,593.73. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman