DRN-2609931
The complaint
Mr L and Miss L have complained about their property insurer Soteria Insurance Limited in 
respect of a claim they made to it after a water leak occurred at their home.
What happened
Miss L contacted Soteria in August 2018 when a leak occurred at their home damaging their 
kitchen. Soteria accepted the claim with the kitchen being dried in two phases. Soteria 
began reinstating the kitchen in early January, but Miss L quickly became unhappy with its 
work, and shed already raised concerns with Soteria about the claims progress to that 
point.
Soteria sent a surveyor to the property to assess Mr L and Miss Ls concerns. It was 
accepted that there had been some poor work. Soteria said it would settle in cash and its 
contractor priced up the work it felt was necessary to finish the reinstatement. This was 
£10,245. Miss L said this wasnt enough, shed obtained three quotes and felt Soteria should 
pay them their average, which she said was £19,132. Soteria said it wouldnt pay more and it 
wasnt persuaded that its contractor had damaged the fridge or kitchen units. Regarding 
electricity used Miss L said only one period of drying had been allowed for. Soteria later 
accepted this and agreed to pay a further amount. 
 
Miss L said shed been unhappy throughout with how the claim had been handled, including 
the service shed received. Soteria issued three final responses dated; 11 January 2019, 
11 March 2019 and 29 April 2019. Mr L and Miss L complained to us in August 2019. Our 
investigator explained that issues dealt with solely within the January 2019 response couldnt 
now be considered by us and Mr L and Miss L accepted this. Soterias March 2019 response 
accepted there had been some delays and poor service, it offered £200 compensation.
Our investigator made further enquires. Mr L and Miss L had reinstated the kitchen, using 
one of the contractor quotes obtained and they said this had cost them £18,540  this 
included replacing damaged units, but not the fridge. Also a charge for £1,700 for the 
contractors travel expenses. They said though that they could only evidence £17,197.02 
being paid to that contractor, as the rest was paid in cash. A VAT invoice for £17,197.02 was 
shown and shared with Soteria. 
In short our investigator felt Soteria should pay Mr L and Miss Ls evidenced costs for 
reinstatement, less the travel costs and less the payment it had made, plus interest. But she 
wasnt minded to make it pay for replacing the fridge, or any further compensation. 
Soteria agreed to the findings. Mr L and Miss L said it wasnt fair for the travel costs to not be 
paid, or for the cash amount theyd paid to be discounted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its fair to say that all concerned accept that poor work took place. I think its also fair 
to say that when Soteria initially offered to settle the claim in cash it did not tell Mr L and 
Miss L that its price would be based on its contractors costs. Nor did Soteria draw to Mr L 
and Miss Ls attention some of the issues with the quotes they provided to it and which have 
been discussed and put to rest during correspondence with our investigator. If Soteria had 
been clearer, I think Mr L and Miss L would have handled the reinstatement differently. 
I think the only fair way of settling this now is for them to be reimbursed the costs theyve 
been able to show they incurred. But less the contractors travel costs. 
It isnt usual for a contractor to charge for its travel in this way. And there was a quote at a 
lower cost which did not include such travel expenses. I appreciate that Mr L and Miss L 
preferred the contractor that charged for travel, but Im not persuaded its fair to pass such a 
charge on to Soteria. I think its fair to allow £1,700, the cost quoted for travel, to be 
deducted from the price Mr L and Miss L have shown they paid to the contractor  
£17,197.82. That then means Soteria is liable for paying £15,497.82, with its settlement of 
£10,245 being off-set against that value, leaving £5,252.82 for it to pay.
I appreciate that Mr L and Miss L say they paid a further £1,342.18 in cash. But as theyve 
been unable to show they paid this to their contractor, I cant fairly make Soteria reimburse 
this sum. The original quote for £18,540 is not enough to show that this total is what was 
paid for the work undertaken at the property. And in saying that Im mindful that even though 
Mr L and Miss L approached the contractor for an invoice to show everything theyd paid, it 
only issued an invoice for the value of the sums theyd paid by bank transfer (£17,197.82). 
I do think Soteria should add interest to the £5,252.82 Im satisfied it should now pay. Soteria 
only paid Mr L and Miss L £10,245 for reinstating the kitchen. They paid three instalments to 
their contractor, the last two on 27 June and 26 July 2019 respectively. The last one being at 
a value of £2,805.02. So they were out of pocket against what Soteria should have paid to 
the value of £2,447.80 from 27 June 2019 and £2,805.02 from 26 July 2019. So interest 
fairly needs to be paid on those sums (which make up the outstanding amount of £5,252.82 
Im requiring Soteria to pay) from the respective payment dates. 
Soteria paid a further amount for electricity, this in respect of the other period of drying it 
hadnt accounted for before. Miss L had always been concerned that both periods hadnt 
been accounted for by Soteria, I think Soterias further payment resolves this issue. If there 
is any outstanding concern about the value of Soterias settlement, Mr L and Miss L will need 
to address this with Soteria. 
Im not persuaded that Soteria damaged Mr L and Miss Ls fridge by scratching and denting 
it when moving it. Mr L and Miss L have provided photos of the fridge before it was moved  
but they arent focussed enough to let me determine whether or not there was damage. And 
Soteria has provided photos which Im satisfied were likely taken by its contractors before 
the fridge was moved into the hall  and these clearly highlight a dent and a scratch. Its 
possible that other damage was done by Soterias contractor  but Im not satisfied thats 
most likely the case.
I accept some of the work Soteria completed was poor, and that it could have handled the 
claim better at times. I note it has paid £200 compensation to account for upset caused. 
I think this is reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things rightI require Soteria to pay Mr L and Miss L £5,252.82, plus interest* on the sum of £2,447.80 
from 27 June 2019 and on the sum of £2,805,02 from 26 July 2019, both until settlement is 
made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Soteria considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mr L and Miss L, it should tell them how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr L and Miss L a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Soteria Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out in 
putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman