DRN-3771551
The complaint
Mr W, through his representative, complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, lent to 
him when he could not afford it.
What happened
This was not a loan. Drafty offered a credit facility which commenced with a limit being
determined and then the customer was able to draw down the amounts he or she required.
The credit was unsecured and had no fixed duration.
Briefly, Mr W applied for a credit facility of £200 in March 2017. Drafty approved a credit
facility of £200 and it remained at that limit. Mr W had declared, when the facility was
approved that his monthly income for his full time employment was £1,620 and his monthly
expenditure was £750. Drafty says that it carried out credit checks.
The credit agreement set out the total cost of the credit based on some assumptions to
illustrate the likely cost to Mr W. On the assumption that Mr W drew down the full £200 on
the first day and then repaid it (plus interest and charges) over 12 months in equal
instalments then the total amount payable would have been just under £265.01. This would
have equated to about £22 a month (Clause 5 in the agreement).
The arrangement did include a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced
ten days before Mr Ws salary payment, and it gave the minimum payment required for that
cycle. It had to be the higher of certain calculations which are in the agreement at clause 6
which I have not set out here.
A Continuous Payment Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near
Mr Ws monthly salary date. Other ways of payment were made available.
Mr W, through his representative, complained to Drafty in April 2022 and received a final
response letter (FRL) in June 2022 in which it did not uphold the complaint.
In October 2022, one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Draftys
decision to approve the credit facility initially was right. And in relation to that part where
Drafty ought to monitor the account, she thought that from 8 July 2018 Drafty ought to have
recognised that Mr W was not managing and ceased to lend to him further.
Drafty agreed with our adjudicator on the date of 8 July 2018 as the uphold date but its offer
in relation to the redress to pay to Mr W differed from what our adjudicator recommended.
Mr Ws representative was informed of Draftys planned offer and its reply was to say that it
preferred the redress calculations recommended by our adjudicator and not the offer from
Drafty. From that very clear response it seems that Mr W does not take issue with the first
part of our adjudicators view that the facilitys original approval in March 2017 was
satisfactory. So, I have not reviewed that part.
The outstanding issue was an unresolved detail surrounding the redress and that was the 
reason the complaint was passed to me. On 4 May 2023 I issued a provisional decision with 
a reply date of 18 May 2023. 
I gave reasons why I considered the Draftys planned redress calculations were the ones 
I thought fitted with the evidence I had. That provisional decision is duplicated here to 
provide ease of reference for the parties. It is in smaller type to differentiate it. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have considered the law, any relevant
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the credit was offered.
Before lending money to Mr W or approving a credit limit a lender should take proportionate
steps to understand whether Mr W will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a
sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks,
they did list several things a lender could consider before agreeing to lend. The key element
was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider several different things,
including how much was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid.
Monitoring of the account
After the initial approval of the credit limit at the start of the account facility, Drafty did have to
monitor Mr Ws account and it has explained to us how it did that but very briefly. I refer to
the Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) chapter 6 which
addresses the expected Business Practices in relation to the monitoring of an account. One
indication of a risk of a customer being in financial difficulties is where it seems that the
customer is borrowing to repay borrowing.
The rationale for our adjudicators uphold in Mr Ws complaint was that the continual
repayment of the minimum amounts each month ought to have prompted it to have done
something rather than just allow that repayment pattern to continue.
Mr W had provided us with a copy of his bank account statements for May, June and July
2018 at my request.
Drafty has agreed with our adjudicator as to the 8 July 2018 date at which it ought to have
done more and likely suspended the account for Mr W. And Mr W has only taken issue with
that part relating to the redress calculations. So, as we are all agreed on this part then Ill
consider the redress paragraphs which seems to be the sticking point between the parties.
The redress calculations issue
Our adjudicator thought that Drafty needed to refund all interest charged on the facility 
including on amounts Mr W had previously drawn down and about which theres no dispute.
Whereas Drafty proposed that the redress calculations were on any new drawdowns from
8 July 2018 onwards.
However, Id only direct Drafty to put things right in this way if I was satisfied that it ought to have 
realised that Mr Ws financial position was so difficult as of 8 July 2018 that he couldnt
afford any further borrowing. And that Mr W couldnt repay what he already owed. And so
Drafty ought reasonably to have withdrawn the facility completely. I dont think Drafty
checked Mr Ws financial situation on 8 July 2018 and so I have asked to review his
statements to see what Mr Ws position was at the time.I have been sent bank statements from Mr W recently covering May, June and July 2018
and these do not present a picture of someone in such a poor financial state he was unlikely
able to repay the relatively modest outstanding balance of around £200 in July 2018.
Draftys proposed redress, as outlined in response to the adjudicator would lead to a refund
of interest on any new drawdowns from 8 July 2018. And bearing in mind the circumstances
here, I consider that refund to be reasonable. So, I am intending to ask Drafty to pay that
redress in resolution of the complaint. This differs to our adjudicators view and hence the
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No response has been received from Mr W or his representative. 
Drafty has responded to say that it agrees. On 18 May 2023 Drafty has said: 
Considering the points that have been raised in your provisional decision, we agree 
to refund the interest and charges paid towards all the drawdowns on the account 
[number] from July 8, 2018, amounting to £117.42 (£97.34 for Interest paid, £25.10 
for 8% annual interest, minus £5.02 for 20% mandatory tax withholding in line with 
HMRC regulations). We will also remove any adverse information on the account 
from July 8, 2018 from [Mr Ws] credit file.
In the circumstances and having no reason to alter my views expressed in the provisional 
decision, then I repeat all those findings here. For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Ws 
complaint in part. 
Putting things right
Drafty has not clarified this recently but my understanding is that the current state of the 
account is that theres a sum outstanding. We understand that the debt has been assigned 
to another party and so I think that Drafty should buy that debt back and bring it back in-
house if it can. Then Drafty needs to do as it has already offered to do and which I endorse 
which is as follows:
re-work Mr Ws credit facility balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to 
new drawdowns from 8 July 2018 are removed; and
if at any point Mr W would have been in credit on his account after considering the 
above, Drafty will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is made; and
apply any refund due to Mr W to reduce the overall balance; and
if there remains a balance after doing this then Drafty needs to arrange with Mr W a 
suitably agreeable payment plan; and
remove any adverse information from Mr Ws credit file from 8 July 2018 as Drafty 
has offered to do.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr W 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and I direct that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, should put things right for Mr W as outlined in my decision above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman