DRN-3447520
The complaint
Miss D complains that My Finance Club Limited was irresponsible to lend to her.
What happened
Miss D had two loans from My Finance Club between April 2021 and December 2021 as 
follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Scheduled 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 11 Apr 2021 £400 38d £521.60 19 May 2021 25 May 2021
2 1 Dec 2021 £170 18d £194.48 19 Dec 2021 15 Dec 2021
Miss D says she took out multiple loans and credit cards in 2021 and should not have been 
approved for further credit. She says My Finance Club should have seen that the outgoings 
on her credit file were higher than those shed declared and looked into the inconsistency.
Miss D says she had to borrow more money to make the repayments and is now struggling 
to repay all her other credit as the loans were unaffordable. Miss D adds that she was having 
to ask friends and family for money for essentials, which affected her mental health and her 
relationships, especially when they found out she was gambling.
My Finance Club says it asked Miss D for details of her employment, her income and 
expenditure and also checked her credit file. It says it verified her income with a payslip and 
confirmed she was living with her parents via the electoral roll. My Finance Club says 
Miss D's credit file showed her existing credit was well-managed and its other checks 
showed the lending was responsible.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
My Finance Club had carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the 
available information to indicate further checks were required, or that the repayments were 
unsustainable.
Miss D responded to say, in summary, that her credit file would have shown a lot of 
borrowing before loan 2 and so My Finance Club should have asked for further information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
My Finance Club needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss D could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that My Finance Club should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that My Finance Club was required to 
establish whether Miss D could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the  customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ds complaint.
Loan 1
When Miss D applied for this loan, I can see that My Finance Club verified her income with a 
payslip and carried out a credit check. However, Im not satisfied these checks went far 
enough because:Miss Ds scheduled repayment was over 42% of her income;
Although Miss D lived at home with her parents, My Finance Clubs affordability 
assessment only shows expenditure on credit;
I find, therefore, that My Finance Club should have asked Miss D about any other 
expenditure at the time, including short-term loans that may not yet be on her credit file.
Ive had a look at Miss Ds full credit report and her bank statements from the time and they 
show:
Miss D had a small monthly expenditure on insurance and a mobile phone;
She had no other short-term loans at the time of the lending;
Miss D appeared to have additional income which had not been considered during 
the analysis.
Although I accept that Miss D began gambling in April 2021, the level of checks that I 
consider proportionate for this lending would not have required My Finance Club to obtain 
bank statements at this stage. So, whilst Miss D did have additional expenditure that it had 
not captured, she didnt have any additional credit commitments of which My Finance Club 
should have been aware and the loan repayment was still affordable based on the 
information it should have had, especially when the additional income was taken into 
account.
So I dont find My Finance Club was irresponsible to have approved loan 1.
Loan 2
Miss D repaid loan 1 six days after its original due date, but My Finance Club had agreed to 
the later date. There was a six-month break between the two loans and the loan amount, 
and the repayment, were both significantly lower. Im satisfied that My Finance Clubs 
checks went far enough for this loan because: 
Miss Ds income was now around £1,850 which, again, My Finance Club verified with 
a payslip;
The scheduled repayment was just over 10% of Miss Ds income;
Ive seen evidence that My Finance Club asked Miss D about her expenditure and 
found she had sufficient disposable income to make the repayment;
Due to the break in lending, there was no indication that Miss D was becoming 
dependent on short-term loans;
The credit check showed one new loan and two new credit cards since loan 1, but all 
payments were up to date and consistent with what Miss D had declared;
Although Miss Ds total debt had increased to almost £4,000, I find thats reasonable given 
her income and there was nothing to indicate she was struggling to manage that level of 
debt, nor that further checks were required.So I find My Finance Club carried out proportionate checks for loan 2 and there was no 
information to suggest the repayment was unaffordable.
Again, I cant conclude My Finance Club was irresponsible to have approved loan 2.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman