DRN-3641300
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Nationwide Building Societys decision to decline her chargeback 
claim.   
What happened
Mrs C used her debit card to pay for tickets to an event. Mrs C then received a letter from an 
Insolvency Practitioner (IP) to say the event was being cancelled as the merchant had 
taken steps to be placed into liquidation. Mrs C contacted Nationwide to ask for the £100 
shed paid to be refunded. Nationwide declined the claim on the basis it had been more than 
540 days since the transaction debited Mrs Cs account. Mrs C then got back in touch with 
the IP to say Nationwide had declined her claim and they explained any amount owed to her 
will be an unsecured claim in the liquidation. Mrs C complained about Nationwides decision 
and they responded and explained the claim was declined as it was outside of the 540-day 
timescale set by the card scheme.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs C. He thought Nationwide hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining Mrs Cs claim. Mrs C disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs C will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The chargeback scheme is voluntary, and businesses are not under a formal obligation to 
submit a chargeback claim. However, this services view is that it is good practice for a 
business to process a chargeback claim where rights exist under the scheme rules. 
Chargeback is the process by which disputes are resolved between card issuers (in this 
case, Nationwide) and merchants (the events company). Chargebacks are decided based 
on the card scheme's rules and timescales for submitting a chargeback are quite strict. The 
most common length is 120 days, and this can be either 120 days since the payment itself, 
or since the customer became aware there was a problem. 
There are usually different rules for situations where the goods or services will only be 
provided at some future time. In this case, Mrs C bought tickets for an event that was to take 
place at a later date. 
In these situations, I acknowledge this makes the 120-day limit too restrictive if something 
goes wrong on the day or, as in Mrs Cs case, a couple of months before the event was 
scheduled to take place. Ive looked at the chargeback rules in place by the card scheme 
which applies to Mrs Cs debit card and this says, where services are to be provided after 
the processing date of the transaction, the 120-day timeframe is calculated from the date 
that the cardholder expected to receive the service or when the cardholder was first made 
aware that the services would not be provided. 
I can therefore understand why Mrs C believes her claim should be accepted as she first 
appears to have been made aware the service wouldnt be provided when the IP notified her 
of the merchants liquidation. However, the card schemes rules say the timeframe to raise a 
chargeback must not exceed 540 days from the processing date of the transaction.  
Theres no dispute that Mrs C used her debit card to pay for tickets in November 2020  or 
that Mrs C then registered her dispute with Nationwide in June 2022. This has unfortunately 
meant that Mrs C raised her dispute more than 540 days after the date of her transaction. 
Mrs C does have my sympathy and I do acknowledge this wasnt through any fault of       
Mrs Cs as she acted promptly when she was notified the event wouldnt go ahead. But, 
chargeback claims are decided based on the card schemes rules and our service doesnt 
have the authority to challenge how they run their scheme. What Im looking at here is 
whether Nationwide have acted fairly and reasonably in considering Mrs Cs claim. And, I 
think they have and the reason theyve given for declining the claim is fair.  
  
I can see Mrs C also queried with Nationwide whether a claim could be made under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. In certain circumstances, someone buying goods 
and/or services using a credit card can claim against their credit provider over the actions of 
a third-party supplier. However, in this case, the payment made by Mrs C was on her debit 
card. As such, Nationwide was not acting as a credit provider so Mrs C cannot claim against 
Nationwide under Section 75. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman