DRN-3491603
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about the way a mortgage application was dealt with by Bank of Scotland 
plc trading as Halifax. Mr A says that the application was subject to delays, he incurred 
costs, he was financially abused and that Halifax caused him considerable distress and 
inconvenience. Mr A also says that the poor service he received from Halifax was motivated 
by racial discrimination.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
So I will not set out every detail of the complaint. There are several reasons for this. First of 
all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, and in the investigators 
letter dated 27 March 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so there is no need for me 
to repeat the details here. Secondly, what happened really isnt in dispute, so I dont need to 
analyse the events in order to determine why a complaint has been made. Finally, our 
decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to 
Mr A being identified.
Briefly, Mr A applied for a mortgage with Halifax. Mr A says hed been led to believe by 
Halifax that it would agree to lend him a certain amount. However, when his application was 
considered, Halifax repeatedly turned him down, and was inconsistent in the information it 
gave him about the income it would take into account. Mr A says he was given false hope by 
Halifax, and has been treated with inequality, racism and prejudice.
Halifax acknowledged that the service it provided had fallen short in terms of delay and in 
mis-communication. Halifax also acknowledged that it had included, when considering 
affordability of the mortgage, income that wasnt guaranteed, and so this should not have 
been included.
Halifax accepted that its poor service had caused Mr A distress and upset, and that his time 
had been wasted in looking for properties. Mr A had also incurred expenses. In a series of 
final response letters sent over a period of months, Halifax accepted it had made these 
mistakes. The bank paid Mr A compensation of £800 for trouble and upset, and £2,020.64 to 
cover the expenses hed incurred.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with this. He brought his complaint to our service. Mr A says that 
Halifaxs decision to apply a maximum loan-to-value for his mortgage application and thus 
restrict the amount it will lend is based on racial discrimination against him. Mr A wanted an 
investigation into how he was treated, why he was given wrong information and for Halifax to 
examine the institutional racism of its staff and systems. Mr A wanted Halifax to pay him 
more compensation.
An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. Whilst he accepted there had been mistakes by Halifax, he thought the steps the 
bank had taken in paying compensation for distress and inconvenience and in reimbursing 
expenses Mr A had incurred were sufficient to put things right.
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes made some 
further points, which I summarise below:
the investigators conclusions were biased and prejudiced and corporate-driven, failing to 
mention case law which Mr A had sent the investigator;
the compensation is inadequate for the abuse he suffered;
the harm Halifax has caused him and the level of compensation does not reflect case 
law and equality;
Halifax hasnt dealt with his Data Subject Access Request (DSAR).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service is neither a court nor a 
regulator. It would be for the Financial Conduct Authority  which is Halifaxs regulator  or a 
court to determine whether or not Halifax is institutionally racist.  And whilst we take account 
of the law, we dont decide things in the same way a court would do; the overarching 
principle we are required to follow, pursuant to the provisions of the Financial Service and 
Markets Act 2000, is to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
The starting point here is that Halifax has accepted it made mistakes and has offered to put 
things right. So I dont need to analyse each and every detail of what happened in order to 
decide whether or not the bank is at fault; Halifax has accepted this. In the circumstances, 
what I am required to consider is whether the compensation the bank has offered is 
sufficient, or whether Halifax needs to do something more.
The crux of Mr As complaint is that he was, to put it in colloquial terms, messed about by the 
bank over a long period of time when he was trying to apply for a mortgage. Halifax didnt tell 
Mr A that it couldnt lend him the amount he wanted, but that it might be able to lend a lower 
amount. The bank also took into account income which it later had to discount when 
considering affordability, and there was a lot of effort expended by Mr A in getting 
information from his HR department to clarify his employment status and income. Mr A 
incurred expenses and he had to keep contacting the bank to try to resolve his complaints.Ive looked at the compensation Halifax has offered Mr A for these mistakes, and Im 
satisfied it is fair and reasonable. The compensation of £800 for the distress and 
inconvenience is, I find, fair and proportionate to the mistakes made by the bank. The further 
compensation of £2,020.64 covers expenses Mr A has incurred. So to that extent, I think the 
bank has done enough.
However, Mr A also says he was discriminated against by Halifax on the basis of race. I 
confirm Ive read the references to case law Mr A has sent us. These relate to Court of 
Protection cases about financial abuse and so are of no relevance to a complaint about a 
mortgage application. I must also explain that I have no power to determine whether Halifax 
has breached the provisions of the Equality Act 2010  only a court can decide this.
Mr A hasnt provided any specific examples of incidents during his mortgage application 
when he believes he was being racially discriminated against; rather, Mr A has made a 
general complaint that Halifax is institutionally racist and that he has been discriminated 
against.
But to allege discrimination, one needs to have more than a suspicion. All thats been proven 
here is that Mr A made an application for a mortgage, it wasnt handled particularly well by 
Halifax, but ultimately the bank wasnt able to offer him the mortgage he wanted  for 
reasons that related to income and affordability, rather than any of Mr As personal 
characteristics. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that the problems in processing Mr As application were 
motivated by racial bias, particularly as Mr A hasnt provided details of any specific, 
identifiable incident where he says he was discriminated against. I find it more likely that the 
mistakes Halifax made were due to poor service and that, unfortunately, there were a 
number of mistakes made by the bank that caused upset to Mr A. Bank staff do make 
mistakes and, in this case, Mr A was very unlucky that there were a number of mistakes 
made on his application. But in all the circumstances, Im not persuaded Halifax 
discriminated against Mr A due to his race. If Mr A disagrees with me, he is free to pursue 
his claim of racial discrimination against the bank in court.
In relation to Halifax not replying to Mr As DSAR, this is something which is more 
appropriate for consideration by the Information Commissioners Office, which is the 
organisation responsible for ensuring compliance with the General Data Protection 
Regulation.
Conclusion
I know this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for. However, after careful consideration of all 
the evidence, Im satisfied that the compensation already paid by Halifax is fair and 
reasonable for the mistakes the bank made. I will not, therefore, be ordering Halifax to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman