DRN-2868214
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr J complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) have undervalued their 
property when they applied to change the rate on their mortgage.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr J have a mortgage with Barclays and in 2021 they went to apply to change the 
interest rate. Barclays valued their property at £545,000. Mrs B and Mr J werent happy with 
this valuation. They said that their property is worth at least £595,000.
Because of Barclays lower valuation, they say theyve lost out on a preferential interest rate 
and have therefore been financially impacted.  
Mrs B and Mr J wanted Barclays to send someone out to their property to value it in person. 
But Barclays declined to do this. It said that there hadnt been any structural changes in the 
property, and so it wasnt its normal process to instruct a valuation in this way. They also 
said that it might send someone to value the property where it has seen evidence that the 
property value has increased by 25%.
Mrs B and Mr J remained unhappy with this and so they referred their complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs B and Mr J. They didnt think that Barclays had 
done anything wrong by not sending anyone out to value the property, and that it had 
followed its normal process in these situations. 
Mrs B and Mr J disagreed. They remain of the opinion that their property has been 
undervalued and that Barclays desktop valuation is not reflecting the current market prices. 
Because Mrs B and Mr J didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs B and Mr Js complaint.
It isnt the role of this service to provide a valuation for Mrs B and Mr Js property. And it isnt 
for this service to ask Barclays to change its internal processes and policies. But I can look 
to see if Barclays treated them fairly when it provided its valuation. Based on everything Ive 
seen, I think it has.
Barclays has said that it wouldnt look to send someone out to value a property unless there 
have been structural changes. As far as Im aware, Mrs B and Mr J havent structurally 
changed the property, and so Barclays didnt send someone to value it. Mrs B and Mr J say 
they have made some improvements to their property, but from what Ive seen, these dont 
amount to structural changes, and so Im satisfied Barclays has treated them fairly in this 
respect.
Barclays have also said that it may send someone to value the property if theyve seen 
evidence that the value of the property has increased by 25%. The evidence it would need 
for this is an example of three properties in the area that have sold at a 25% increase within 
the last three months. Barclays say Mrs B and Mr J havent provided them with any evidence 
to show this. It follows that I dont think Mrs B and Mr J have been treated unfairly. Mrs B 
and Mr J has sent in information about the property market in general, and while I dont 
dispute the findings in these articles, there isnt any evidence that persuades me, that their 
property value has increased by 25%.
Had Mrs B and Mr J paid to get their own valuation done, and this was dramatically different 
to Barclays own valuation, then I think it would have been fair of Barclays to take this into 
account. But again, I cant see that Mrs B or Mr J instructed their own valuation  other than 
the online searches that they have done. I note that Barclays valuation does fall within the 
range of one of the valuation guides Mrs B and Mr J has sent. The other valuation guide 
does appear to be higher, but it doesnt indicate that the value of their property has 
increased by 25%, and so I still cant fairly say that Barclays has gone against their own 
processes and treated Mrs B and Mr J unfairly. 
Theres very little evidence available on this case for me to be able to say that Barclays has 
treated Mrs B and Mr J unfairly. While Ive read what theyve said about other houses for 
sale in their area, I havent seen any evidence of properties that have sold in the last three 
months. In any event, unless the sale price of these properties was at a 25% increase, 
Barclays wouldnt look to send someone to value it anyway, and I dont find this to be 
unreasonable.
 
I know that Mrs B and Mr J find Barclays process to only send someone out if the valuation 
has increased by 25% unfair and dated. But it isnt for me to comment on this or ask 
Barclays to change its process. 
I know that Mrs B and Mr J has sent this service photos of their home, which I presume they 
feel supports their argument that Barclays has undervalued their property. But as Ive said, it 
isnt my role to value Mrs B and Mr Js property  and so I dont think I can fairly comment on 
the photos theyve asked me to consider. These only show me what their property looks like 
and doesnt lead me to think that Barclays did something wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs B and Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman