DRN-3780255
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined her pet insurance 
claim. And reference to Mrs W or Aviva in this decision includes respective representatives 
and agents unless specified otherwise.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved, so Ive 
summarised what Ive found to be the key points.
In February 2020 Mrs W took out an Aviva pet insurance policy to cover her dog B. 
Mrs W made a claim under the policy in January 2022 for a cruciate ligament 
operation in Bs right hind leg.
Aviva declined the claim saying that Bs cruciate ligament issues were were pre-
existing and therefore not covered under the policy. It cited policy terms to support its 
decision.
Mrs W says that prior to purchasing the policy, she spoke with Aviva to explain B had 
previously undergone cruciate ligament surgery on her left hind leg and to check 
whether the other three legs would be covered under the policy if they were to suffer 
the same injury. 
Mrs W says she was told that if the cruciate ligament injury on any of Bs other legs 
happened more than 18 to 24 months after the existing injury, then it was unlikely to 
be considered as bilateral and therefore could be claimed for under the policy. 
Mrs W says she went ahead with the policy on that basis. And that as the above 
timescale has passed, the claim should be paid in line with what she was told prior to 
taking out the policy. 
Our investigator considered Mrs Ws subsequent complaint about the matter and 
didnt uphold it. She thought Aviva had fairly declined the claim in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.
Mrs W disagreed. She said Aviva had played with words instead of specifically telling 
her it wouldnt cover a future cruciate ligament operation for B under any 
circumstances. She complained the policy was mis-sold to her and asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
Aviva underwrites Mrs Ws policy, but she purchased it via a broker. And after 
discussions with Aviva about the relationship between it and the broker in question, 
its been found that any complaint relating to how the policy was sold should be 
considered against the broker and not Aviva.
The investigator explained this to Mrs W and said that under this complaint the 
ombudsman would only be able to consider how Aviva has handled her claim. She 
set up another complaint against the broker regarding the sale of the policy and 
explained this will be considered separately to this case.
The complaint against Aviva about its handling of Mrs Ws claim has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ws policy covers her for vet fees. But as is standard with policies of this nature, 
the cover is subject to certain terms, conditions and exclusions which are set out in 
the policy documents.
My role in this case is to look at whether Aviva fairly declined Mrs Ws claim in line 
with these terms and conditions, taking into consideration whats fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of this case.
Mrs W made a claim for the cost of an operation B underwent as the result of a 
cruciate ligament rupture/tear in her right hind leg. 
Aviva says Bs cruciate ligament issues are pre-existing and therefore not covered 
under the policy as the terms and conditions state that Aviva will not pay - The cost 
of any treatment for a pre-existing condition. And the policy defines a pre-existing 
condition as:
An injury that happened or an illness that first showed clinical signs before your pets 
cover started, or b) An injury or illness that is the same as, or has the same diagnosis 
or clinical signs as an injury, illness or clinical sign your pet had before its cover 
started, or c) An injury or illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, an 
injury, incident, illness or clinical sign your pet had before its cover started. No matter 
where the injury, illness or clinical signs are noticed or happen in, or on, your pets 
body. This is in addition to any exclusion(s) stated on your Certificate of Insurance.
Mrs Ws claim is for a cruciate ligament injury in Bs right hind leg. And its not in 
dispute in this case that prior to Mrs Ws policy starting with Aviva, B had the same 
injury in her left hind leg. 
So with the above definition in mind, Im satisfied the injury being claimed for is pre-
existing under the policy because from what Ive seen, its the same as, or has the 
same diagnosis or clinical signs as an injury, illness or clinical sign that B had before 
the cover started.
It follows Im satisfied Aviva has fairly declined the claim in line with the policy terms 
and conditions, so I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be directing Aviva to do 
anything further in this case.
Any complaint that Mrs W has about the information she was given from the broker 
before purchasing the policy will need to be considered against that party but isnt 
something Ive been able to look at in this decision for the reasons already explained.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman