DRN-4283782
The complaint
Mr W and Ms H are unhappy Sesame Limited (Sesame) sent documents about their
commercial let property insurance to the insured property, rather than their home address, 
which resulted in them being unaware the policy had ended.
What happened
Mr W and Ms H own a property which is let out to tenants. They insured the property via
Sesame for a number of years.
In February 2022 Mr W and Ms H discovered insurance premiums hadnt been collected
since October 2021 so they contacted Sesame. After discussion with Sesame, and the
administrators acting on behalf of Sesame, Mr W and Ms H discovered that their insurance
documents had been sent directly to the tenanted property rather than their home address.
Within these documents, Sesame had written to explain the policy couldnt be renewed and
would end on 31 October 2021 as the underwriter had withdrawn from the market. The
documents also outlined who could be contacted to arrange an alternative policy.
Mr W and Ms H are unhappy correspondence had been sent to the risk address as they say
it breached their confidentiality, and that as the property was consequently uninsured for
several months without their knowledge, something severe could have happened.
Mr W and Ms H asked this service to look into their complaint.
Our investigator looked into things. Initially there was confusion about who the complaint
should be against, as there was a change of administrator acting on behalf of Sesame, and
Mr W and Ms H had been directed by Sesame directly to the administrators.
Following communication with Sesame and the administrators, our investigator explained
that as the administrators were acting on behalf of Sesame, Sesame was ultimately
responsible for the complaint.
Our investigator then considered the complaint and what happened. She said that when the
administrator acting on behalf of Sesame changed, the new administrator was only given the
risk address, rather than Mr W and Ms Hs home address. This meant the documents were
sent directly to the insured property rather than to Mr W and Ms H.
Whilst the investigator recognised it would have been distressing for Mr W and Ms H to
discover the property was uninsured, fortunately no claim or loss had arisen, and she said
she wouldnt be recommending compensation for something which couldve but didnt
happen.
In addition, she also noted Mr W and Ms H had said their confidentiality had been breached,
but she thought no personal information about Mr W and Ms H had been disclosed, beyond
details which the tenant was likely already aware of. So, our investigator didnt recommend
Sesame pay compensation or do anything further.
Mr W and Ms H didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached the same overall outcome as our investigator, but there were some additional 
reasons. Therefore, I issued a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to 
comment on my initial findings before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally reached the same overall outcome as our 
investigator. However, there are some additional reasons for doing so. Therefore, Im 
issuing a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my 
provisional findings before I reach my final decision.
Mr W and Ms Hs let property was insured via Sesame for a number of years. In 
2018, the administrator acting on behalf of Sesame changed. During the transfer of 
administrator, only the risk address was passed between the two administrators and 
the new administrator wasnt aware the correspondence address differed. As a 
result, documents were sent directly to the insured property from then onwards. This 
included the renewal documents, and several notifications in 2021 that Sesame was 
unable to arrange cover from renewal in November 2021 as the underwriter had 
withdrawn from the market. The policy then lapsed on 31 October 2021.
In February 2022 Mr W and Ms H noticed insurance premiums hadnt been taken 
since October 2021 and when contacting Sesame (and the administrators), they 
discovered the policy had lapsed. Mr W and Ms H have asked for compensation 
because the property was left uninsured, and something could have happened to it.
Like our investigator, Im not minded to direct Sesame to pay compensation on the 
basis something could have happened. This is because, fortunately, nothing did 
happen so Mr W and Ms H havent suffered a financial loss as a result. However, I do 
recognise it would have been distressing to find out the property hadnt been insured 
for several months.
However, as soon as Mr W and Ms H were aware, they would have been able to 
insure the property elsewhere to immediately make sure they had the cover they 
needed. So, whilst I recognise it would have been distressing at the first point of 
discovery, Im not minded to direct Sesame to pay compensation for this, as 
Mr W and Ms H would have been able to arrange alternative cover at that time of 
discovery, and by this point they already knew there fortunately wasnt any loss or 
damage to their property.Furthermore, Mr W and Ms H are unhappy they didnt receive the policy lapse 
notifications in October 2021. However, the change of administrator had happened in 
2018, so any documents after that point would have gone to the risk address, not to 
Mr W and Ms H either.
This means that along with the lapse notifications in 2021, Mr W and Ms H also likely
wouldnt have received renewal documents for around three years before this. Whilst 
I note it was not paying premiums since October 2021 that led Mr W and Ms H to 
contact Sesame (three months later), I do also need to take into account that they 
likely hadnt received any correspondence about the insurance policy or property 
from Sesame for several years.
Given the insurance cover was something they were paying for, and to cover a 
property they owned and let out to tenants, it may have been reasonable for 
Mr W and Ms H to have contacted Sesame to query this in the interim if they hadnt 
received documents for several years, despite paying premiums for insurance cover.
Mr W and Ms H are also unhappy as they say by sending documents to the risk 
address, Sesame has breached their confidentiality with their tenants.
I asked Sesame for all the documents sent since the transfer in 2018, but they were 
only able to provide the renewal documents from 2020 and a copy of the policy 
ending letters from 2021. Theyve been unable to provide copies of correspondence 
from before then as they do not retain copies. So, whilst I cant review all the 
documents that were sent to the risk address, Ive been able to review the renewal 
documents from 2020.
These documents outlined Mr W and Ms H as the policyholders. And given they were
landlords of the tenants, this is information the tenants likely already knew. From 
what Ive seen, there was no other personal information contained in the documents 
such as date of birth, medical information or bank details. So based on what Ive 
seen, the personal information in these documents about Mr W and Ms H was very 
limited.
The documents did include details about the property, and the cover the insurance 
policy provided along with the price. But I also need to take into account the 
documents werent addressed to the tenant. So, in order for the tenant to see this 
information, they wouldve needed to open post not addressed to them.
But in any event, Mr W and Ms H havent provided anything to demonstrate any 
negative impact or detriment that this caused if in fact the tenants did open post not 
addressed to them, which had very limited details. So, Im not minded to direct 
Sesame to compensate Mr W and Ms H for this.
So, I said I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. 
The responses to my provisional decision
Sesame responded and said they agreed with the provisional decision and had no further 
comments to make.
Despite agreeing to extensions to the deadline for a response, Mr W and Ms H didnt provide 
a response or any comments prior to the final deadline that was given.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. Having 
done so, and as neither party has provided anything which would lead me to depart from my 
provisional findings, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and for 
the same reasons.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman