DRN-1665372
 
complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Ms G payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked 
the possible ways in which the PPI might have been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ms G has said she was told that PPI was compulsory. She says that, a few years later, when 
she was told it wasnt compulsory, she cancelled it. And I can see, on the banks file, there is 
a letter in 2000 from Ms G cancelling the PPI. 
However, the sale of the PPI took place about 23 years ago, and I wouldnt expect someone 
necessarily to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago. This means it can be 
difficult to know whether I can rely fully on everything they remember. 
It wouldnt be fair for me to conclude Bank of /Scotland acted wrongly in the way Ms G says, 
unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. Where someone has said another 
person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the person making 
the allegation should present persuasive evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt 
be fair to require Bank of Scotland to prove it didnt do something wrong, especially when it 
was such a long time ago. I realise it would be very difficult for Ms G to prove her case but, 
without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without her genuine informed 
consent. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Ms G, and this means it had a 
higher standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Ms Gs particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Ms Gs 
situation at the time: 
Its likely Ms G was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Ms G received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Ms G would 
need to fall back on any savings or other means she may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Ms G in a more secure 
position, if shed lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest she couldnt afford the PPI when she took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Ms G would 
have been affected by any of these
 
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this 
would have affected whether Ms G took the PPI. I say this because it looks likely the 
potential benefits were greater than Ms Gs sick pay, and the cost wasnt significantly 
high.
 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman