DRN-3745882
The complaint
A company I shall call G complains that HDI Global SE incorrectly declined its business 
interruption insurance claim, made for losses arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
A number of parties have been involved in the claim and complaint, but for the sake of 
simplicity I have just referred to G and HDI. 
G operates as a hotel and held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by HDI. The 
policy provided cover for a number of areas of risk, including business interruption. In 
March 2020, G had to close its premises other than for use by keyworkers, etc. Then, in 
April 2020, G closed entirely. It contacted HDI to claim for the loss of income arising from 
this, saying that a member of staff who lived on site had been suffering from symptoms of 
COVID-19 in April 2020.
HDI declined the claim. It was not satisfied that there had been an occurrence of COVID-19 
at Gs premises that had caused restrictions to be placed on those premises or that had 
required them to close. 
G brought its complaint about this decision to our Service. But our Investigator felt that HDI 
had come to the correct decision when declining the claim. He thought that the decision to 
introduce the government-imposed restrictions that had initially impacted G was taken in 
March 2020, prior to the alleged occurrence of COVID-19 in April 2020. And so this alleged 
occurrence could not be the cause of those restrictions. 
Our Investigator also later said that he was not persuaded that the evidence G had provided 
showed that it was most likely that the employee had been suffering from COVID-19 in 
April 2020. 
G remained unsatisfied and so its complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on G, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Detailed submissions have been received on this complaint. But, whilst I have considered 
these, I am going to focus this decision on what I believe to be the key issues.
The type of cover Gs looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy G took out.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Gs policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Gs business. So, I think HDI acted fairly and reasonably 
in not meeting Gs claim under this area of cover.
Gs policy does include an extension that provides cover where a disease has led to the 
interruption. This provides cover for losses resulting from:
a) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the 
approval of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a 
Notifiable Human Disease occurring at the Premises
COVID-19 would fall within the policy definition of a Notifiable Human Disease. But in order 
for this clause to provide cover, it needs to be demonstrated that such a disease occurred at 
the premises and that this then led to the other elements of the clause. 
The closure of hotels other than for keyworkers and similar exceptions followed the actions 
of the Scottish Government in March 2020. G has referred to general prevalence rates of 
COVID-19 around the time of the Governments decision. But I am not persuaded that this 
shows there was most likely an occurrence of COVID-19 at Gs premises. 
G has also referred to a member of staff who displayed symptoms of illness in April 2020. 
But, even if this was an occurrence of COVID-19, it took place after the decision in 
March 2020 so cant be said to have caused that decision. 
Additionally, I am not persuaded by the evidence G has provided that this was most likely an 
occurrence of COVID-19 in April 2020. If G could demonstrate that this employee most likely 
had COVID-19, it may have a valid claim for the loss of income from keyworkers, etc. for a 
period of time. But it is for G to demonstrate this.
In April 2020, there was limited access to testing for COVID-19. So, it is unlikely G would be 
able to provide a positive test result from this time. As such, we must consider the other 
evidence that is available. 
It is clear that the employee in question most likely suffered symptoms of illness. These were 
reported to NHS 111 and to the Health and Safety Executive. However, it isnt clear that the 
illness suffered was most likely COVID-19. The contemporaneous evidence does not list the 
symptoms the employee experienced. But these have since been described as cough and 
fever. Such symptoms are common to many other illnesses that people were suffering 
around this time  such as colds and flu. 
And whilst I note Gs comments that the symptoms were worse than normal and that they 
did not improve after having cold or flu tablets, I am not persuaded that this shows the 
employee most likely had COVID-19. 
As with any insurance claim, it is for G as the policyholder to evidence that they have a valid 
claim. And whilst I do recognise the difficulties posed by demonstrating there was most likely 
an occurrence of COVID-19 at the premises, I am not persuaded that G has done this in this 
case. So, I cant fairly require HDI to meet Gs claim. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means HDI should have met Gs claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for G and its directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman