DRN-3976988
The complaint
Mrs R complained that her claim for storm damage under her home insurance policy with 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) was unfairly declined.
What happened
Mrs R said a storm caused damage to the flat roof of her garage and led to rainwater 
entering. She said the water gathered in the roof space, causing her internal ceiling to bow 
significantly under the weight.
Mrs R made a claim to Lloyds after her roofer said she would be able to claim on her policy. 
Lloyds asked Mrs R to send photographs of the damage and the quote from the builder to 
repair the roof. Mrs R said, Lloyds informed her it would cover her for the external damage to 
the roof. However, when she asked for the internal damage to the ceiling to be covered also, 
she said Lloyds decided to send a surveyor to her house to review the damage due to the 
increased cost.
Based upon the surveyors report, Mrs R said Lloyds changed its mind and decided to 
decline the claim. It said there wasnt evidence of storm damage and thought the leak was 
an ongoing issue, so wasnt covered by the policy. However, Lloyds did acknowledge it 
couldve offered a better service. So, it compensated Mrs R £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mrs R wants Lloyds to settle her claim in full.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought Lloyds had been fair in 
declining the claim, as the weather didnt meet the threshold for storm conditions. She also 
didnt think the damage was consistent with what a storm would cause. She did think Lloyds 
were inconsistent in providing its decision during the claim, however, she thought £350 was 
a fair level of compensation. Mrs R disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
I have checked the policy to see what is defined as storm conditions. The policy states we 
consider a storm to be strong winds of 55mph or more, and/or heavy snow or hail that 
causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. Well take into account the condition of 
your home as a well-maintained building should withstand all but the most severe weather 
events.
Using reports available to our service, Ive been able to check the weather at the time of the 
reported incident. Ive also looked at the weather a few days either side of the reported 
incident. The maximum wind speed recorded was 54mph.
Whilst this doesnt meet Lloyds definition of a storm  it does suggest there were still strong 
winds at the time of the incident, so for completeness I have considered the next question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
I think strong winds may cause slight structural damage. Mrs R has claimed for the bowed 
ceiling in her garage, but the photographs she has provided dont show any physical 
damage externally from the storm. For a claim to be successful under the storm peril, there 
would need to be physical evidence that the storm caused the damage.
The kind of damage I may expect to a flat roof, could be felt been blown or ripped from the 
roof. There is no evidence of this, so I think its very unlikely a storm did cause the damage 
as no physical evidence of this has been provided. Lloyds declined the claim as it thought 
the damage was caused over a long time, so I have considered the next question too.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I have checked the policy for terms and conditions that relate to this claim. On page 7, the 
policy sets out the importance of keeping your property in good condition  it states, make 
sure your home is kept in a good state of repair or you may find that the damage has been 
caused as a result of wear and tear, and not something your insurance covers you for. The 
policy expands this by stating have a flat roof checked regularly for wear.
Additionally, on page 36 of the policy there is a general exclusion for wear and tear which 
is defined as damage that naturally and inevitably occurs as a result of normal wear or 
ageing. An example is provided as weathering to a roof which may cause cracking.
Lloyds made its decision to decline the policy based on its surveyors report. So, Ive read 
the report. It concludes in our opinion the damage is not consistent with storm but is due to 
a failure of materials. The report provides further detail of the cause the damaged items are 
pointing along the left-hand elevation upstand. To return the property back to the original 
pre-loss condition repairs will include repointing the upstands. However due to the amount of 
time the leak has been ongoing the timbers have now become rotten and require 
replacement which will also involve replacing the felt roof.
I have reviewed the photographs that accompany the report. I find the surveyors comments 
to be consistent with what I can see in the photographs. There doesnt appear to be any 
physical evidence of storm damage. The water seems to have entered the roof through a 
crack that is visible in the mortar that runs along the length of the roof.
I find the report to be persuasive and I think Lloyds have been reasonable in declining the 
claim due to wear and tear. The policy is clear that long term and ongoing defects arent 
covered by the policy. I think its most likely the storm has merely highlighted the pre-existing condition of the roof. I think Lloyds have been fair by applying the exclusion to this claim. I 
dont think the quote from Mrs Rs contractor provides evidence contrary to this and points to 
the storm being the main cause of damage.
Ive considered whether the £350 compensation is fair for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mrs R. Lloyds explained this was for the overall poor service it provided and for 
setting false expectations for the claim. Whilst I appreciate Lloyds decision to ultimately 
decline the claim wouldve been disappointing for Mrs R, I do think it was correct and fair in 
the context of the damage evidenced and the terms and conditions of the policy.
The claim was delayed slightly as Lloyds didnt appoint a surveyor from the start. However, 
£350 is a significant level of compensation and I think its reasonable in these circumstances 
and in line with our services guidelines. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman