DRN-3270943
The complaint
Ms M complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside her mortgage.
What happened
In 1999 Ms M applied for a mortgage in branch and took a PPI policy at the same time. In 
the event of a successful claim the policy provided mortgage repayment cover for Ms M for 
accident, sickness and unemployment for up to 24 months if she wasnt able to work. The 
monthly premiums for the policy were £26.37 and would pay out a monthly benefit of 
£497.64 if a claim was successful.
Ms M has said she was pressured into taking the policy and that it was a pre-requisite for the 
lending to be agreed. She also said she had excellent employee benefits and wouldnt have 
had any problems getting another job if she was made redundant. She also referred to the 
general mis-selling of PPI by the financial services industry that had been identified.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. They thought there wasnt enough to show that 
Ms M was pressured into taking the policy. It was clear it was optional. And they didnt think 
the policy was unsuitable for Ms M. 
Ms M disagreed with the adjudicator. She reiterated her reasons for thinking the PPI was 
mis-sold to her and outlined her circumstances running up to and at the time of the sale.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ms case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of Ms Ms complaint is that she was led to believe that she needed PPI at the point 
of sale and that she didnt need it. She has told us of her personal circumstances leading up 
to the mortgage application for which she said she was desperate to be approved. She told 
us she was vulnerable to aggressive selling at the time. 
Clearly, I cant know exactly what was said to Ms M at the meeting she had in-branch or how 
exactly the PPI was presented to her. Halifax has given us copies of the point of sale 
documents, but I accept that the information contained in them and agreed to by Ms M at the 
time might not be a fair reflection of Ms Ms recollection of what happened. And I thank Ms M 
for her testimony  its clear she feels very strongly about her complaint. 
But I also have to take into account that this sale took place over 20 years ago and the 
mortgage itself has been redeemed. So, I have borne in mind that this length of time would 
inevitably have had an impact on the parties recollections of the events. And where I have to 
consider conflicting testimony, I have to decide the complaint on what I think is more likely to 
have happened bearing in mind the evidence and information I do have. 
As Ive mentioned above, Halifax has been able to give us the point of sale documents which 
include the mortgage quotation letter. This details the monthly mortgage repayments and the 
PPI premiums which I see are listed separately. There is also the separate MORTGAGE 
REPAYMENTS INSURANCE APPLICATION document that clearly shows the cost and 
benefit of the policy as well as showing that Ms M answered some questions about her 
eligibility for the policy  for which I see she was eligible. This has been signed and dated by 
Ms M separately from the mortgage application itself.
The insurance section of the mortgage application has a separate heading entitled Accident, 
Sickness and Unemployment Insurance followed by the comment We recommend that you 
consider our Mortgage Repayments Insurance Scheme and some brief details about the 
policy. Ms M has again signed and dated this separately from the other applications. 
All of this indicates the policy was discussed and agreed to. There is nothing in those 
documents that suggests to me it wasnt clear it was optional  it was sold separately to the 
mortgage. Ms M had to sign a different application document in order for her to agree to it. 
Taking into account Ms Ms testimony as well as the above documents, Im not able to find 
that it was more likely Ms M was told she needed to have the policy in order to be granted 
the lending. I know this is Ms Ms understanding and recollection but there is nothing in the 
paperwork provided by Halifax which makes me think it was more likely she was misled into 
thinking she had to take the policy. 
For me to conclude that Ms M was misled into thinking she had to take the policy I would 
need to think that it was more likely than not that is what happened. But because of the 
evidence provided by Halifax, I believe it was more likely that it was discussed and agreed to 
and I think its just as likely that Halifax recommended to Ms M that she should have the 
policy rather than she had to have it. 
Ive thought about whether what I have seen shows its more likely that although Ms M was 
made aware she had a choice about taking the policy, Halifax pressured her into taking it. 
Ms M explained the difficult times she had been through and she said she was vulnerable to 
aggressive selling. But bearing in mind what Ive already said above  the time that has 
passed and the evidence I have been given  Ive not seen anything else to make me think it 
more likely Ms M was pressured. I know Ms M will be extremely disappointed by this, but I 
hope I have been able to explain how and why I have reached the conclusion about this 
point that I have. 
This type of PPI was a regular premium policy which Ms M could have cancelled at any time. 
She could have done this after the mortgage lending had been agreed if she hadnt wanted 
it. 
Halifax says it advised Ms M to take out the policy which I agree looks to be the case. So, it 
had to make sure the policy was suitable. And looking at Ms Ms circumstances, I think it 
was suitable. Ill explain why. 
Ms M has said she would have received between six and 12 months pay from her employer 
if she was off work because of accident or sickness. But the policy would pay out for 24 
months if Ms M was too unwell to work. And it would have paid out over and above any employee benefits she was entitled to. So those benefits could have been used to pay other 
household expenses at what could have been a difficult time. 
Ms M has said she would receive a redundancy pay-out if she lost her job but said that her 
losing her job was unlikely and Ms M was confident she would have got a new job very 
quickly. But Ms M cant have known this for sure  circumstances can change  and again, 
the policy would pay out on top of any redundancy benefits Ms M would have received from 
her employer. 
Ms M has told us she was financially stretched at the time of the sale and I appreciate her 
point, but I havent seen anything else to make me think it wasnt affordable. 
Ms M was solely responsible for making the mortgage repayments and taking on a mortgage 
is a large and long-term financial commitment. The penalties for missing repayments are 
significant  even going so far as losing ones home. Insurance is there to protect against the 
unexpected and I do think the policy would have been a useful benefit for Ms M in what 
could be a financially stressful time if she wasnt able to work. 
Ms M doesnt appear to have been caught by any restrictive terms or exclusions in the 
policy.  For example, she didnt have any unusual employment arrangements or a pre-
existing medical condition at the time of taking out the PPI.  
Ms M has quoted and referred to the official enquiry into PPI describing it as ineffective and 
insufficient but highly profitable and a selling scandal which has been the subject of millions 
of successful claims for mis-selling. I am aware there were failings in the financial services 
industry and PPI was mis-sold. But I have to consider what I believe to be fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of Ms Ms own particular complaint. And I have 
taken into account what both parties have told me in reaching the conclusion that I have. 
I know my conclusions will be disappointing and frustrating for Ms M  she has put time and 
effort into making her complaint. But after taking all of the evidence and information into 
account I am not upholding the complaint. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Catherine LangleyOmbudsman