DRN-2828025
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA) intends to settle a claim 
they made under their caravan insurance policy following a fire. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr and Mrs Js static holiday home was unfortunately damaged by fire and so 
they made a claim to their insurer, RSA.
Mr and Mrs J are very unhappy with the way RSA intends to settle their claim. Mr J says 
they have obtained two estimates which show the costs to repair the damage in the region of 
£43,000 and £50,000. But RSA has offered to settle the claim by paying £23,200  an 
increase from their original offer of £13,000. Mr and Mrs J says this isnt enough and says 
the caravan isnt economical to repair. 
RSA said it considered the first estimate Mr and Mrs J provided from company D. This said 
the caravan wasnt economical to repair, but didnt provide any costings to support its 
opinion. A Loss Adjuster (LA)  company S  instructed by RSA deemed the caravan was 
repairable for around £13,000. 
Mr and Mrs J provided a second estimate from company N for £43,860.40 which RSA 
noted included labour costs of over £25,000. RSA had concerns about this, so it investigated 
further. Having done so, RSA instructed company B to visit Mr and Mrs Js caravan for a 
forensic inspection. On completion of their enquiries, RSA instructed company P to carry 
out a comparison estimate  given the difference in the ones received so far. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt allow the visit from P, so P provided a report using the existing 
information and photographs provided. On this basis, P reported that the caravan was 
repairable and the estimated costs  worst case scenario  would be £23,200 excluding 
VAT. 
To resolve the complaint, RSA said it can either authorise P to carry out the repair works  
or pay Mr and Mrs J a cash settlement for £23,200. And it will reimburse VAT on receipt of a 
suitable VAT invoice on completion of the repair works. 
RSA said it was reasonable for it to carry out further enquiries by way of visits to the caravan 
by experts in order to properly investigate the claim. 
Mr and Mrs J remained unhappy and asked us to look at their complaint. They want RSA to 
settle their claim in line with the information by D and say their holiday home cannot be 
repaired economically. Mr and Mrs J also complained about the service they received from 
RSA.
Our investigator thought RSA had acted reasonably. She found that it had dealt with the 
claim in a reasonable period of time between March and May 2020, taking into account a 
small delay due to lockdown restrictions which were outside of RSAs control. As both 
parties had reached an impasse, she felt RSAs offer to either have the caravan repaired or 
accept a cash settlement was fair and in line with the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree. They say we havent taken into account the report provided by D 
who is the only one qualified in structural damage. So they want an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Js policy says that in the event of a claim RSA can decide how to settle it. The 
key part of the policy reads: 
We will pay in cash the amount of the Damage or We may repair, reinstate or 
replace the Damaged property 
Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but we agree 
to pay our customer a cash settlement, then payment will normally not exceed the 
amount we would have paid our preferred supplier (see Preferred Supplier section 
of the policy.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Js frustration as a number of inspections have taken place to 
their holiday home. However, I think RSA is entitled to make reasonable enquiries  and 
where there is a significant disparity between opinion and estimates provided  for it to carry 
out further checks. 
Mr J says P couldnt provide a suitable estimate based on photos. As Mr and Mrs J didnt 
agree to company P visiting their holiday home for an inspection, I cant criticise them for 
relying on photos in order to provide an estimate for RSA. 
The report by D says that due to the water damage to the property following the fire if repairs 
were carried out would be extensive. While a list of repairs has been provided, no estimated 
costs for those repairs were given by D. Ds view was that the holiday home was beyond 
economical repair.
I understand Mr Js view that the opinion of D should carry more weight as he is the only one 
qualified in structural damage. And he says the estimate provided by N supports the view 
that the holiday home isnt economical to repair. RSA considered Ds report  but explained 
that there is no specific qualification in relation to caravan or static home surveying. It says 
this is a specialist area and by far the most experienced people to comment are repairers 
who have worked in this industry for many years.
When considering Ns report, RSA had concerns as to the level of costs for labour which 
was around half of the total estimate. 
RSA has offered to carry out repairs to Mr and Mrs Js holiday home. An insurer must 
provide effective and long lasting repairs. So while I can appreciate Mr and Mrs Js 
concerns, I think its reasonable of RSA to have provided this as an option in line with the 
policy terms. And I can see that the alternative offer to pay a cash settlement is the amount 
company P estimated the repairs would cost it to carry out. As RSAs preferred supplier, I 
dont think RSA is obliged to pay any more than the £23,200 excluding VAT (but subject to 
reimbursement on VAT payment proof). If repairs were carried out by RSAs preferred supplier and Mr and Mrs J were unhappy with 
them, they would be entitled to raise any new concerns with RSA as a new complaint. 
So  taking everything into account  I think RSA has dealt with their claim reasonably. I 
dont think its responsible for any undue delay. I think its done enough to resolve Mr and 
Mrs Js complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman