DRN-4118769
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Santander UK Plc didnt reimburse him after he fell victim to a scam.
Background
In November 2022, Mr A was looking to buy a car. Hed been in a road traffic accident and 
his insurers had decided to write off his previous car. He was paid a settlement figure and 
given a short window in which to a find a replacement vehicle.
He used an online marketplace and found a second-hand car for sale. The account selling 
the car purported to belong to a business, rather than a private individual. Although he didnt 
have the opportunity to inspect the car in person, a video was shared with him which allowed 
him to view its general condition. The price of the car was £5,350. Mr A was asked to pay a 
deposit of £1,000 and then paid the balance three days later. He used his Santander 
account to make the payments.
Unfortunately, the person Mr A was in contact with wasnt a legitimate trader of second hand 
cars, but a scammer. Hed been told that the car would be delivered to his home. When this 
didnt happen, he became suspicious and so he notified Santander. Santander considered 
his claim under the terms of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimburse Model 
(CRM) Code. It said that it shouldve displayed a scam warning when Mr A was making the 
payment, but it didnt. On that basis, it agreed to refund 50% of the money Mr A lost to the 
scam. However, it thought Mr A didnt have a reasonable basis for believing he was dealing 
with a legitimate seller. For that reason, it didnt think it should be expected to refund him in 
full.
Mr A was unhappy with that response and so he referred his complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator agreed with Santanders 
conclusion that Mr A didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the seller was legitimate. 
He thought that the advertised price of the car was much lower than it shouldve been. He 
thought this should have been an indication that something wasnt right.
He also noted that Mr A hadnt made the transfers to a company account, but to the personal 
accounts of two named individuals. He was told that these were employees of the 
dealership. Nonetheless, the Investigator thought Mr A shouldve found this arrangement 
unusual and acted more cautiously than he did.
Mr A disagreed with the Investigators opinion. He said that hed bought cars using this 
online marketplace in the past without any problem. He was using it because he was a 
looking for a good deal  so he didnt find it suspicious that the car was priced as it was. He 
was told by his contact that the individuals he was paying were employees of the business. 
He found this to be a plausible explanation.
Mr A was also unconvinced by the Investigators view on the valuation of the car. The 
Investigator had said that it shouldve cost a little over £10,000  but Mr A submitted 
evidence of a car that sold at an online auction for significantly less than this. Because Mr A 
disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to consider 
and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances 
and it is for Starling to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care 
under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
The customer ignored an Effective Warning by failing to take appropriate action in 
response.
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that  
the payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the person or business with 
whom they transacted was legitimate. 
There are further exceptions, but they arent applicable in this case. Santander has already 
accepted that it ought to have provided a warning when Mr A made the payment. That 
means the only thing I need to consider is whether the second exception applies  in other 
words, did Mr A make these payments with a reasonable basis for believing that the 
transaction was genuine? 
Ive considered this point carefully and Im afraid I dont find that he did. The price Mr A was 
paying was a little over half the market value of the car. The data the Investigator used to 
value the car is an industry tool that bases its valuations on actual sale prices. Mr A wouldnt 
have had access to that data, but Im surprised he didnt carry out any checks of his own. 
He found an example of the same model car selling at auction for only a little more than he 
believed he was paying and so hes questioned the accuracy of the valuation the 
Investigator relied on. He submitted a screenshot showing the price that car sold for.
Unfortunately, I cant attach much significance to that evidence. First, the car was sold via 
auction and auction prices are more likely to be unrepresentative of the genuine valuation of 
the car because the auction process itself is unpredictable. Having said that, there are many 
reasons why the car in question might have attracted the price that did. It couldve had 
significant damage in a previous accident or been written off by an insurer only to be 
subsequently repaired. None of this information is available in the evidence Mr A has 
submitted to us. Overall, Im satisfied that the valuation relied on by the Investigator was 
reliable. 
I also think Mr A ought to have been concerned at the request that he transfer the payments 
to two private accounts. He believed that he was dealing with a limited company and had 
reassured himself that it was legitimate by checking that it had a genuine registration at 
Companies House. Having done that, I think he ought to have been concerned that he 
wasnt being asked to pay that company itself. I dont say any of this to downplay or diminish the fact that Mr A has fallen victim to a cruel 
and manipulative scam. Theres no doubt that he has. But my role here is to consider the 
extent to which the bank should be considered liable. Overall, Im satisfied that it acted fairly 
and reasonably in only reimbursing 50% of the money Mr A lost to the scam.
Mr A has also explained his concerns regarding whether the receiving banks  i.e. the banks 
that operated the accounts controlled by the fraudsters  met all of their obligations. One of 
those receiving banks was Santander. However, Mr As concerns are being investigated as 
part of a separate complaint and so I wont comment on them here. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman