DRN-3137656
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the interest that shes paid to Harvey & Thompson Limited under 
some loan agreements that have been secured on her jewellery and other items.
What happened
Mrs W has entered into a series of loan agreements with Harvey & Thompson that were 
secured on her jewellery and other items. The total amount of the loans made to her since 
April 2015 is £2,768 and shes paid interest totalling £5,127.33. She complained to Harvey & 
Thompson about the financial difficulties that she was experiencing and the way that it had 
dealt with her. She wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. She says 
that she wants Harvey & Thompson to refund the interest that shes paid and allow her to 
redeem the items that it still holds.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. She didnt 
consider that Harvey & Thompson had acted unreasonably with its lending to her or its 
renewal of her pledges. She said that if Mrs W hadnt renewed the pledges, the items would 
have been sold  which wasnt something that Mrs W wanted.
Mrs W has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that 
Harvey & Thompson put profit over anything else and should have done more to help her 
rather than a constant renewal of her pledges. She says that she was desperate and feels 
that it has taken advantage of her financial situation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Harvey & Thompson has provided details of the loans that it has made to Mrs W: 
oit made two loans to her in April 2015 both of which ended in September 
2015;
oit made another loan to her in October 2015 which was renewed in July 2016 
and ended in September 2016; 
oit made a loan to her in March 2017 which was renewed six times and ended 
in January 2019;
oit made a loan to her in August 2018 which was renewed in May 2019 but the 
items were forfeited in August 2019; and
oit made a loan to her in May 2019 which was renewed in February 2020 and I 
understand remains outstanding;
Harvey & Thompson has also provided a copy of the fixed sum loan agreement and 
pawn receipt for the outstanding loan of £1,048 which is secured on some jewellery 
and other items;
it is in the nature of pawnbroking that items are used as security for a loan and, as 
the loan is secured by those items, theres no requirement for the affordability of the 
loan to be assessed by the pawnbroker or for credit checks to be made;
I dont consider that there was any requirement for Harvey & Thompson to make an 
affordability assessment or to check Mrs Ws credit history before the loans were 
made to her;
Mrs W has repaid four of the loans and picked up the items that were held by Harvey 
& Thompson as security for those loans, one loan has been forfeited and one loan 
remains outstanding;
if she hadnt renewed or repaid the loans, the items secured would have been sold 
by Harvey & Thompson in accordance with the terms of the loan agreements  and 
as the items have sentimental value to her its clear that she wouldnt have wanted 
that to happen;
I sympathise with Mrs W for the financial difficulties and other issues that shes 
described and for the amount of interest that shes paid to Harvey & Thompson, but 
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that it has acted incorrectly 
in its dealings with her;
Im not persuaded that there was any requirement for Harvey & Thompson to have 
taken any other action when Mrs W asked it for loans or renewed her existing loans 
or to have responded to her financial difficulties in a different way;
nor am I persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Harvey & 
Thompson to return to Mrs W the jewellery and other items that it has as security for 
her outstanding loan - unless she repays the loan and other required amounts to it in 
accordance with the terms of the loan agreement that she signed; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Harvey & Thompson to refund to Mrs W any of the interest that shes paid under the 
loan agreements, to pay her any other compensation or to take any other action in 
response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman