DRN-3813472
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with what Great Lakes Insurance SE did after he made claims on his legal 
expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C took out insurance which included a legal expenses policy in July 2019. In December 
2019 a dispute arose with his neighbours; this related to a previously agreed right of way, 
rights for Mr C to park his car and the positioning of his bins. Mr C claimed on his policy. 
There were difficulties in progressing the claim and the dispute escalated and harassment 
claims were made against Mr C with police involvement. 
However, in August 2020 there was a positive assessment of the prospects of success of 
the claim. There was then delay in matters being moved forward as Great Lakes had 
concerns about whether matters predated the start of the policy. After that was resolved 
there were problems finding a solicitor who was now available to take on the case. Mr Cs 
complaint about delay in this period has been separately considered by our service and 
another Ombudsman issued a decision on that last year. 
In early 2022 Mr C found a solicitor willing to take on the case. They agreed a fixed fee with 
Great Lakes to provide an assessment of prospects, write to the neighbours and review and 
advise on any response. That review concluded there had been breaches of property rights 
but any damages were unlikely to exceed the costs of court action so the case wasnt 
proportionate to pursue. However, they thought correspondence with the neighbour might 
resolve the matter. The solicitors subsequently wrote to the neighbours and provided advice 
on, and a response to, their reply.
Mr C raised further concerns about the actions of the neighbours and the police (torts of 
deceit claims) and a personal injury claim following an assault. The solicitors advised the 
torts of deceit claims wouldnt have more than 51% prospects of success. The personal 
injury claim did have prospects but the costs of pursuing it would outweigh the damages 
claimed. Mr C raised separate concerns about a different set of neighbours. Solicitors 
advised the outstanding issue (relating to a washing line and overlooking) didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success. 
Great Lakes said it wouldnt provide further funding for these claims as they didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success or werent proportionate to pursue. Mr C had the option of 
approaching the Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme (CICS) in relation to his personal 
injury claim. It also thought the issues with the washing line (and associated problems) 
began before the policy started and were excluded on that basis in any event. That also 
applied to claims Mr C had raised about a solicitor who previously acted for him. And some 
issues raised about the police werent covered by the policy at all. 
Our investigator thought Great Lakes had provided appropriate funding for those parts of 
Mr Cs claim that met the policy terms. And she thought it acted fairly in turning down cover 
for those issues that either werent covered by the policy, didnt have reasonable prospects 
of success or began prior to the policy start date. In relation to the personal injury claim she 
thought it was reasonable Mr C should approach the CICS about this but if his claim was 
unsuccessful Great Lakes should consider funding this up to the value of the claim. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said claims he wanted to make had been assessed as having 
prospects of success but delay by Great Lakes had compromised the case. And he outlined 
those claims he thought it should have covered including his illegal arrest and an assault on 
his father by the police. He didnt agree that issues relating to the washing line and related 
overlooking were the same as the claim he now wanted to make; that was about neighbours 
taking pictures of him. It was also a different individual whod done that. So I need to reach a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I appreciate Mr C remains concerned about delays that took place in the period prior to this 
complaint. But that isnt something Im considering. Those matters were considered by 
another Ombudsman who issued a final decision (and awarded compensation for those 
delays). And a final decision brings our complaint handling process to an end. So that isnt 
something Im considering in this decision. What Im looking at is Great Lakes decision not 
to provide further funding for the claims Mr C wanted to make after the matter was 
considered by solicitors in 2022. 
In order for cover to be provided at all, claims need to fall within one of the insured events 
set out in the policy. Ive reviewed those terms and I cant see the issues Mr C highlighted 
relating to his arrest, police discrimination or his father are covered. So I think it was fair of 
Great Lakes to say it wouldnt provide funding for these. 
The policy does cover legal costs incurred due to any infringement of your legal rights to own 
and occupy your property.  In particular it covers legal costs in taking legal action in 
connection with infringement or encroachment of your use, enjoyment or rights over the 
property and nuisance or trespass disputes which occur at or in respect of the property.
So the claims Mr C made that related to the actions of his neighbours would potentially fall 
within this section of cover. But its also a requirement of the policy that to be accepted a 
claim must have reasonable prospects of success. And thats defined as a 51% or greater 
chance that you will recover losses or damages (or obtain any other legal remedy that we 
have agreed to, including an enforcement of judgement), make successful defence or make 
a successful appeal or defence of any appeal in your pursuit of civil proceedings or criminal 
proceedings.
Some of the claims Mr C wanted to make (for example relating to his car parking space) 
were assessed as meeting that requirement. And Great Lakes provided funding for the 
solicitors Mr C found in 2022 to write to his neighbours about those matters.
However, following review of the neighbours response the solicitors didnt recommend 
further legal action (and explained why). They also advised that as the neighbours were 
moving Mr C should seek to wipe the slate clean with his new neighbours. And they sent a 
further letter to the neighbours which was intended to prevent the same problems arising in 
future. As the solicitors didnt suggest any further action should be taken, I dont think there 
was additional funding Great Lakes needed to provide for these claims.The other claims Mr C made were assessed by the solicitors as not having reasonable 
prospects of success. That applies to his tort of deceit claims and the claims against his 
other neighbours. I think that assessment is properly written and reasoned and from a 
suitably qualified lawyer. I dont think Great Lakes did anything wrong in relying on that 
assessment and declining cover for these claims. 
The assessment did suggest Great Lakes might nevertheless wish to send a letter to the 
other neighbours in relation to a washing line issue (and associated overlooking). Great 
Lakes decided against doing that because it thought this dispute began before Mr C took the 
policy out. 
The policy doesnt cover claims where the date of event is before the date of inception of 
this policy. Date of event is defined as the date of any event which may lead to a claim; 
where there is more than one such event, the date of the first of these. I think its clear that 
this issue does pre-date the start of the policy because Mr C referred in correspondence to 
this issue having been going on for over 10 years and that it had led to his neighbours 
looking at my windows. 
Mr C says those neighbours have more recently started taking pictures through his windows. 
And its a different neighbour who has done that. But I dont think this make it a separate 
issue. Mr Cs concerns have always involved his neighbours looking through his windows 
and I think taking pictures is therefore an escalation of an ongoing problem. And while I 
appreciate a different member of his neighbours family may have done that, its the same 
property and the same family causing the issue. I dont see this is enough to differentiate it 
from the issue that began before the policy started. I think it was fair of Great Lakes to say it 
wouldnt provide funding for this claim. 
Turning to Mr Cs personal injury claim, that was assessed as having reasonable prospects 
of success but the solicitors thought the costs of pursuing the claim would outweigh the 
damages claimed. The policy says Where an award of damages is the only legal remedy to 
a dispute and the cost of pursuing civil proceedings is likely to exceed the value of any such 
award of damages, the most the insurer will pay in respect of legal costs is the value of the 
likely award of damages.
So the fact a claim might not be proportionate to pursue would limit the funding available but 
doesnt mean no funding would be provided. However, the policy also says You will take all 
necessary precautions to reduce the risk of a claim and to prevent or minimise legal costs 
wherever possible. In this case Mr C may be able to pursue the matter with the CICS. Given 
the above policy term I think it would be reasonable to expect him to do so prior to any 
funding being provided under the terms of this policy. But I agree with our investigator that if 
hes unsuccessful in that claim Great Lakes should consider this issue again. 
Finally, Mr C said he wanted to make a professional negligence claim against solicitors who 
advised him about right of access issues in 2007 and 2011. He said hed only become aware 
of a problem with what theyd done following the more recent assessment from his new 
solicitors. However, while I appreciate Mr C may only have become aware of the issue more 
recently that was after this policy had ended. In any case the policy doesnt cover any 
dispute arising from a contract entered into prior to the inception of this legal expenses 
policy. I think that applies here and it was fair of Great Lakes to say this claim wouldnt be 
covered either. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman