DRN-4419138
The complaint
Mr H, via a third party representative, says Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
In August 2020 Loans 2 Go granted Mr H a fixed sum loan.
The loan was for £700 to be repaid by Mr H at £36.92 a week, for 78 weeks  making a total 
repayable of £2,879.76 at an APR of 1,275.9%.
In February 2022 Mr H made the last payment required of him and his loan was marked by 
Loans 2 Go as settled.
in January 2023 Mr H complained to Loans 2 Go that it had lent to him irresponsibly.
In February 2023 Loans 2 Go issued Mr H with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover 
of this FRL Loans 2 Go said that it didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
In May 2023, and unhappy with Loans 2 Gos FRL, Mr H complained to our service.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld.
Mr H didnt agree. In summary he said he had 18 late payments less than 6 months old and 
2 defaults recorded on his credit file in August 2020 and this should have been enough for 
Loans 2 Go to conclude that it shouldnt lend to him.
Because Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view his complaint has been passed to me 
for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Hs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr H would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way and without experiencing 
significant adverse consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr H wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Hs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and cause significant adverse consequences for 
Mr H. In practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loan wouldnt cause Mr H undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
Loans 2 Go has provided evidence to show that before lending to Mr H it carried out a 
credit check and asked him for details about his income and expenditure. It verified Mr Hs 
income and also went through the credit check to look through Mr Hs credit commitments. 
It then calculated what it thought was Mr Hs disposable income to see if the loan 
repayments were affordable. Based on those checks Loans 2 Go thought it was fair to lend.
Based on the amount that Mr H borrowed, the repayment and term of the loan, I think the 
checks were reasonable and proportionate. Those checks suggested to Loans 2 Go the loan 
was affordable and Mr H could sustain the repayments over the term. I note that in response to the investigators view Mr H says that he had 18 late payments 
less than 6 months old and 2 defaults recorded on his credit file in August 2020 and this 
should have been enough for Loans 2 Go to conclude that it shouldnt lend to him.
Notwithstanding I cant reconcile this submission with the credit check undertaken by Loans 
2 Go in August 2020 (which paints a much better picture of Mr Hs credit rating) or 
reconcile it to Mr Hs original complaint to Loans 2 Go and our service, Im satisfied that 
loans 2 Go took into account everything that its credit check returned before deciding to lend 
to Mr H. It should also be remembered the market in which Loans 2 Go operates and that 
consumers applying for credit with Loans 2 Go are likely to have some historical late 
payments, CCJs and defaults recorded with credit reference agencies. 
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed but taking everything into account Im simply not 
persuaded that Loans 2 Go did anything wrong in making the loan advance that it did to 
Mr H in August 2020. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman