DRN-2967736
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC hasnt fully reimbursed him after he fell victim to a 
scam and lost £2,480.27
What happened
In September 2020 Mr K was introduced to someone claiming to be an investment broker, 
by a person he once met in a bar. This person said they could help Mr K make money 
through trading and talked about cryptocurrency being involved. Mr K didnt know at the 
time, but this person was actually a scammer.
Mr K discussed proposals to invest with the scammer for three weeks before he decided to 
go ahead. He was persuaded to do so because hed looked up the company the scammer 
claimed to work for on Companies House and found its accounts were up to date. Hed been 
sent a screenshot of a conversation with a successful investor. He was also sent a copy of 
some terms and conditions.
Mr K was told that if he invested £2,480.27, he could expect a return of £5,000-6,000 within 
two hours.
Mr K transferred the money using his online banking to the account details provided by the 
scammer. He was contacted shortly after to be told his investment had actually returned in 
excess of £8,000. But the scammer said hed need to pay another £800 in order to release 
the funds. Mr K became suspicious at this point and contacted his bank to report the scam.
Metro looked into what had happened and attempted to recover Mr Ks funds. It contacted 
the receiving bank to try and get the money back. But it was told only £2.38 remained in the 
recipient account, and so that was all that could be returned to Mr K.
Metro considered its obligations under the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, of which it is a signatory. The Code requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. Metro says one of the exceptions in the Code applies, in that it 
believes Mr K didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the purpose of his payments was 
legitimate. And so it said Mr K ought to bear some responsibility for his loss.
Metro did recognise it could have done more to protect Mr K from the scam by providing 
effective warnings at the point he was making the payment. And so it agreed to refund him 
half of his loss.
Mr K was unhappy with the banks answer and so brought the case to us. One of our 
investigators considered all that had happened and felt the bank had fairly answered Mr Ks 
complaint. She found its position on Mr Ks basis for belief was fair and reasonable and so 
thought it had done enough in refunding half of his loss.
Mr K disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Theres no dispute that Mr K authorised the payments that are the subject of this complaint, 
even though he did so as a result of being deceived by fraudsters. Broadly speaking, under 
the account terms and conditions and the Payment Service Regulations 2017, he would 
normally be liable for them. But that isnt the end of the story.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised. Of particular 
relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), which 
Metro has signed up to.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam, like Mr K. The circumstances where a firm may choose not to 
reimburse are limited and it is for the firm to establish that a customer failed to meet their 
requisite level of care, as set out in the Code.
One such circumstance might be when it can be demonstrated that the customer made the 
payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
In considering these points account should be taken of all of the circumstances of the case, 
including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam.
Ive thought carefully about the scam Mr K fell victim to and Im in agreement with the 
investigator  and for broadly the same reasons  that Metro has fairly held Mr K responsible 
for half of his loss. I dont find he had a reasonable basis for believing the payment was for a 
legitimate investment. There were warning signs that all was not as it seemed. This ought to 
have led Mr K to question the proposition and to carry out checks into its legitimacy. Had he 
done so I believe the scam would have been avoided. Ill explain why in more detail.
I find the proposal to turn £2,480.27 into £5,000-£6,000 in a matter of hours to be highly 
improbable to the extent that it ought to have appeared too good to be true. It doesnt appear 
Mr K had any reasonable explanation for how such large returns would be delivered so 
quickly. And so I think he ought to have been suspicious at the outset.
It doesnt appear as though Mr K was introduced to the scammer through a particularly 
trustworthy source. Hes said he only met the person that introduced him once before, in a 
bar. And then the onward communication was only ever through a social media platform. 
And so there was little way of verifying the person he was dealing with. Its also the case that 
Mr K had no way of verifying the supposed success story he was sent a screenshot of. It 
also seems strange that a legitimate investment broker would conduct their business through 
social media channels.
Mr K says he checked the company that the scammer said they worked for by looking it up 
on Companies House. He said he saw the company accounts were up to date. I can see 
there are two entries for the company name Mr K was given. One was dissolved in 2011 and 
the other, whilst it did have up to date accounts, had not submitted a required confirmation 
statement since 2018. I can also see the company had received several notices for 
proposed strike-off. I believe Mr K ought to have considered these as signs something 
wasnt right.Ive seen a copy of the terms and conditions Mr K was sent. But he doesnt appear to have 
considered these in any detail. Theres another company referred to within the terms that is 
based in Canada, but this doesnt appear to have been questioned. And the website of the 
company the scammer said they worked for automatically redirects to a tabloid newspaper. 
Mr K doesnt seem to have tried to find the company online using this web address or 
through any other means. if he had it seems more likely than not he wouldnt have been able 
to find anything, which ought to have caused further concern. Nor does Mr K seem to have 
attempted to confirm that the person he was introduced to actually worked at the company. 
I do sympathise with Mr K. Falling victim to a scam like this is a particularly distressing event. 
But I have to consider whether the bank has fairly declined to reimburse him under the 
Code, and I believe it has. I can see it recognised it could have done more, and ought to 
have given an Effective Warning (as defined by the Code). And that is why its agreed to 
refund 50% of Mr Ks loss. I believe that to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I can also see the bank did all it could to try and recover the funds. Even though Mr K 
contacted the bank soon after the transaction was authorised it could not be stopped. The 
money had already been sent to the recipient. So all Metro could do was try to recover the 
funds. I can see Metro did contact the recipient bank quickly, but the money had already 
gone and so there was nothing more it could do. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman