DRN-3569800
The complaint
Mr O complains Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) hadnt fairly or reasonably dealt 
with a claim he made under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in 
relation to a timeshare he was sold.    
Mr O is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around June 2007, Mr O attended a sales presentation given by a timeshare supplier 
where he discussed purchasing membership of the product in question.
Following the presentation, Mr O agreed to purchase points rights under a timeshare 
membership agreement provided by the supplier with an allocation of 870 points. The 
purchase price, after trade in of an existing trial membership, was £7,749 which was 
financed through a fixed sum loan agreement over 182 months. Although the original loan 
agreement was with another lender, ownership and administration of the loan was 
subsequently taken on by Shawbrook.
In January 2021, the CMC submitted a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Os behalf under section 
140A of the CCA. The CMC said the relationship between Mr O and the timeshare supplier 
is unfair. And under the provisions of the CCA, this meant the relationship between Mr O and 
Shawbrook is also unfair.
In particular, the CMC said the relationship was unfair as a result of the following prohibitive 
practices:
Taking payment within the cooling off period; 
failure to provide key information about the contract; and
failure to draw Mr Os attention to withdrawal rights.
In addition, the CMC said the timeshare supplier:
misinformed Mr O hed won a prize; 
used high pressure sales tactics;
wouldnt accept no for an answer; and
provided misleading information about the benefits.
In their final response, Shawbrook didnt agree with the allegations presented by the CMC or 
that there was any reason to uphold Mr Os claim.
Having referred Mr Os complaint to this service, one of our investigators looked into what 
had happened. Having considered all the information and evidence provided, our 
investigator didnt think Shawbrook had dealt with Mr Os claim unfairly or unreasonably. The 
investigator didnt believe an unfair relationship existed under section 140A of the CCA. 
The CMC didnt agree with our investigators findings. In their response, they repeated the 
points raised in the original claim. So, as an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was 
passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, 
what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
The claim submitted on Mr Os behalf by the CMC specifically relates to an allegation that an 
unfair relationship exists under section 140a of the CCA.  
Mr O paid for the timeshare membership with a restricted use fixed sum loan, and it isnt in 
dispute that section 140a applies here. So, this means that Mr O is afforded the protection 
offered to borrowers like him under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken that section 
into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
While only a court has the power to make a determination under section 140a, as it is 
relevant law, I have to look at this when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome.
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I believe was most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is available 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The CMC believes an unfair relationship exists for a number of reasons which I will address 
individually as follows:
Taking payment within the cooling off period and failure to draw attention to withdrawal rights
The timeshare application for membership/purchase agreement was signed and dated by Mr 
O on 6 June 2007. Just above Mr Os signature it says in capital letters, You have the right 
to cancel this agreement. You have until 21/06/07 in which to do soPlease refer to the end 
of the agreement for further details of your cancellation rights. So, I think this shouldve 
been clear to Mr O when he signed the agreement.
In addition, the terms and conditions of the agreement include a prominent section on page 
three with a heading in capital letters, Important  You should read this carefully. Your right 
to cancel this agreement. The section clearly explains Mr Os right to cancel and how and 
when he could do that.
The Loan application was also signed and dated by Mr O on 6 June 2007. Condition 2 on 
page two of the application says, GE Money will pay the Amount of Creditto the 
supplier(a) after the expiry of any statutory cancellation period. At the foot of page two 
of the application there are two sections headed, Important  You should read this carefully 
 Your right to cancel this agreement and Notice of cancellation of timeshare credit 
agreement given under section 6 of the Timeshare Act 1992. 
I think both of these sections are prominent, clear and easy to understand. They explain Mr 
Os rights to cancel the agreement and how that may be done.
Theres also a document entitled Fixed-Sum Loan Agreement regulated by the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. This was also signed and dated by Mr O on 6 June 2007. There is a box 
close to Mr Os signature which states in capital letters, You have the right to cancel this 
agreement. You have until 24/06/07 in which to do so. The sections included in the loan 
application above are repeated on page 2 of the loan agreement. So, I think this was also 
clear about what Mr Os rights were here.
A statement of Mr Os loan account with Shawbrook shows that his loan was first drawn on 
25 June 2007. This is after the expiry of the cancellation periods referred to in the 
documents Ive mentioned above. Having considered this, I havent found any evidence to suggest payment was made or accepted at any point within the cooling off period. So, it 
appears the requirements of the Timeshare Act 1992 were complied with here.
Failure to provide key information about the contract
In their letter of claim submitted to Shawbrook on Mr Os behalf, I cant see any reference to 
any specific key information they believe wasnt provided. Having considered the 
membership application and purchase agreement, I think the nature of the purchase Mr O 
was agreeing to make was made clear together with any associated costs. So, in the 
absence of any other specified exclusions, I havent found anything that suggests the 
agreement breached the Timeshare Act 1992 in this respect.  
Unfair sales tactics
Prior to the purchase completed in June 2007, it appears Mr O had previously attended 
sales presentations made by the timeshare supplier. On the first occasion, in or around 
September/October 2006, Mr O didnt agree to make a purchase. However, I understand he 
did later purchase a timeshare scheme trial membership in or around February 2007. No 
specific details of the circumstances of this purchase have been provided. 
While that particular purchase doesnt form part of this complaint, I think its reasonable to 
conclude that Mr O would subsequently have some familiarity with the sales processes 
involved, given his experiences. And given hed previously declined to make a purchase in 
2006, I think its reasonable to conclude he wouldve known he was able to decline further 
purchases, should he decide to.
Having previously purchased a trial membership of a similar product with the same supplier, 
I think it would also be fair to say Mr O was likely to have been familiar with the nature and 
features of the product he was buying. Because of this, I think it unlikely a court might say 
there was a sufficiently extreme imbalance in knowledge, or that the relationship is unfair. 
The CMC have suggested that the high-pressure sales tactics adopted by the timeshare 
supplier constituted a breach of the FCAs rules and guidelines within the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). Ive found no evidence to suggest that the loan provided to Mr O was 
forced upon him or made a condition of the timeshare agreement. He wouldve been able to 
choose how he wanted to make payment and how that was funded. So, I cant reasonably 
conclude that the timeshare suppliers tactics resulted in a breach of the FCAs rules and 
guidelines. 
Commission
Ive considered what the Letter of Claim says about the commission that might have been 
paid to the timeshare supplier for arranging the loan in question. But if such a payment was 
made, I havent seen anything to suggest this wouldve breached any duty by making it. Nor 
have I seen anything to suggest the original lender was under any regulatory duty to disclose 
the amount of commission paid in these circumstances. From what Ive seen across the 
timeshare industry, if commission was ever paid, it tended to be low. So, for that reason, and 
in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I think its unlikely that the levels of commission 
normally paid in situations like this were high enough to put Shawbrook on notice that not 
disclosing it to Mr O risked making their debtor-creditor relationship unfair under Section 
140a.
Summary
Having carefully considered all the information and representations made in this complaint, I 
havent found anything to suggest that an unfair relationship exists under section 140A of the 
CCA. So, while I appreciate Mr O will be disappointed, I wont be upholding his complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman