DRN-2965565
The complaint
Mrs R complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined her home insurance claim, for 
subsidence damage to a retaining wall and patio flagstones. She also complains that some 
nearby drain leaks havent been repaired.
  
What happened
Ill set out my understanding of what happened:
- June 2019  CCTV drainage survey report, commissioned by Mrs R
- July 2019  AXA received notification of the claim
- August 2019  AXA appointed a loss adjuster
- December 2019  site meeting; loss adjuster appointed a contractor
- January 2020  schedule of works and start date agreed
- February 2020  claim excess paid
- March 2020  drainage report, commissioned by the loss adjusters contractor
- May 2020  claim declined
The loss adjuster says, on his initial visit, he noticed the retaining wall was buckling under 
the weight of the retained land. He says he declined the claim because it was evident the 
structure wasnt adequate, and the rolling action of the wall showed there was horizontal 
pressure pushing against it. He also says that the flagstones on the patio had lifted and 
moved due to the structural collapse of the wall.
Mrs R complained about the claim outcome, the claim journey, and AXAs failure to respond 
to a Subject Access Request (SAR). AXA didnt respond to the complaint, so Mrs R referred 
her complaint to this service. One of our investigators thought AXA had fairly declined the 
claim. Because Mrs R disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 July 2021. I explained that I intended to uphold the 
complaint. 
In my provisional decision, I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive already written to AXA to clarify some points, and to outline the current position. Ill set 
out our exchange, and my intended outcome.
Drainage leaks were found on Mrs Rs private drains, and on adjoining shared drains which 
are the responsibility of the utility provider. Mrs R says the utility provider went on to repair 
the shared drains and most of the retaining wall, but there's still damage to her private 
drains. Ive seen emails between Mrs R and the utility provider, from September and 
October 2020, which set out the following:
-The utility provider located a defect in the shared drains by the gully, by the back door of 
the property. The utility provider removed the wall to enable a repair to the section of 
pipe that was displaced. A CCTV survey was completed after the repair, and there 
werent any further defects on its asset. The wall was rebuilt, however, further 
subsidence in the vicinity would need to be investigated by Mrs Rs insurer.
The drainage report commissioned by the loss adjusters contractor confirms the subsidence 
damage to the wall and flagstones, and it concludes severe ground movement appears to 
be the cause due to the utility providers drains leaking. The report also refers to huge 
displacements and a collapse. In the utility providers emails to Mrs R, it says that the 
displacement it was responsible for wasnt as severe. However, I havent seen any 
persuasive evidence that contradicts the observations in the contractors report. 
The drainage report also refers to large, medium, and completely displaced joints on private 
sections of the drainage (which I understand are yet to be repaired); and the need for further 
investigations on a private section that couldnt be accessed.
As already outlined to AXA in my email, I cant join the dots between its drainage report and 
its declinature two months later. Whilst the report doesnt conclusively determine the drain 
leaks are the cause of the damage to the wall, it doesnt support the loss adjusters initial 
observations either. Ive not seen anything which supports the claim decision. But rather, 
Mrs R says a schedule of works was agreed.
Furthermore, contrary to what the utility provider may have told the loss adjuster, it has
gone on to repair the shared drains. I can only reasonably conclude that the leak was 
relatively significant if its taken down some of the wall, and rebuilt it, to do so.
Based on my observations, I explained the following to AXA:
-Im not persuaded AXA fairly declined the wall and flagstones. We know theres been 
drainage leaks in close proximity to the wall, and I havent seen a report, of any detail, 
that supports the loss adjusters observations. I accept its possible the wall failed for 
reasons other than the drainage leaks, but Im not persuaded AXA has sufficiently 
demonstrated that to be the case. 
-Mrs R says the utility provider has since rebuilt most of the wall; and given the time 
thats passed since the claim was first made, overall, I dont consider further 
investigations on the wall to now be appropriate.
-Theres also evidence of unresolved leaks on the private drains, and I havent seen AXA 
has addressed these.
-I consider AXA should cover the remaining repairs to the retaining wall and flagstones; 
and investigate the private drains and repair any outstanding leaks that Mrs R is 
responsible for  subject to any policy limits that apply and the claim excess.
-Mrs R says a schedule of works was previously agreed. I havent seen a schedule, but if 
one was previously agreed, this should form the basis of the remaining works to the 
retaining wall and flagstones.
-It follows that I dont consider the claim to have been handled well; and there was nearly 
a year between the claim notification and the declinature. Ive not seen anything that 
explains such a delay. Mrs R also says shes waiting for a response to her SAR. So, 
I consider AXA should compensate Mrs R £500, and respond to her SAR.In response, AXA explained it would like to appoint a drainage specialist to undertake further 
investigations into the drainage issue. AXA said the specialist would be able to assess any 
leaks to the private drains; and comment on the severity and whether they would have 
displaced the wall and/or flagstones.
However, if AXA was to complete a survey on the private drains, and determine those leaks 
arent severe enough to have displaced the wall and/or flagstones, Im not persuaded that 
would change my intended outcome. This is because there was also a leak on the utility 
providers asset. That leak has already been repaired, so determining its severity, and 
impact on the wall and flagstones, will likely be difficult. 
As I understand it, if it was the utility providers leak that caused the damage to the wall and 
flagstones, that damage is still covered under Mrs Rs home insurance policy. Furthermore, 
AXA has already surveyed the drains (as per the drainage report commissioned by its loss 
adjusters contractor). That report concluded the damage was likely caused by the utility 
providers leak. 
Im not persuaded further investigations would be reasonable at this late stage, particularly in 
view of the previous reports, and the shared drains and part of the wall having already been 
repaired. Im not persuaded AXA has shown the leaks werent the cause of the damage, or 
that a policy exclusion for faulty workmanship or design applies.
Both parties were asked to respond to my provisional decisional by 23 July 2021. Mrs R 
confirmed she has no further comments to make. AXA hasnt responded, despite being 
chased by our investigator and being given a final deadline of 6 August 2021.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided further comments or evidence for me to consider. Having 
reconsidered the information that was previously provided, Ive reached the same 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. My 
final decision is AXA Insurance UK Plc should:
- cover the remaining repairs to the wall and flagstones, and any outstanding leaks 
Mrs R is responsible for (subject to the policy limits and her claim excess); 
- compensate Mrs R £500 for the claim and SAR delays, and the upset caused; and
- respond to Mrs Rs SAR
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman