DRN-4011112
The complaint
Ms C has complained about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds (Tescos) handling of a claim she 
made on her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms Cs mobile phone was lost or stolen while she was overseas. On her return to the 
United Kingdom, a stop was placed on her sim card, and a new sim card was issued. Ms C 
had to purchase a new phone and says having to gather all of the documents and 
information that Tesco required has caused her a lot of stress. She was therefore 
disappointed when her claim wasnt accepted.
Ms C complained to Tesco about the answer theyd given on her claim and received their 
final response letter, not upholding the complaint on 11 November 2022. Tesco explained 
that when Ms C made the claim, they had requested a legitimate IMEI number from her in 
order to confirm the item had been reported lost to her mobile provider with a block being 
placed on the handset. 
Ms C did provide a number to Tesco but it wasnt a legitimate IMEI number as it contained a 
character that wouldnt be found in such a number. Tesco explained to Ms C that the IMEI 
number is the International Mobile Equipment Identity Number which is unique to the device. 
As the item being claimed for is a mobile phone, Tesco believes theyve made a reasonable 
information request for details needed to validate Ms Cs claim. Also, Tesco did say that 
once they have the IMEI number, which Ms Cs network provider should be able to provide 
her with, they would be happy to progress her claim.
Unhappy with their response, Ms C brought her complaint to this service. She said that 
Tesco ought to contact her mobile phone provider directly to obtain the IMEI number and 
confirmation that the phone is blocked.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and issued a view not upholding the 
complaint. She explained that Tesco had given Ms C a number of suggestions as to how she 
could obtain the outstanding information, but the information provided wasnt correct. Our 
investigator concluded that Tesco had acted in line with the policy terms and conditions, and 
fairly in the circumstances.
Ms C didnt accept our investigators view. She said that shed provided all of the relevant 
information to Tesco, including the IMEI number that was located on the box of the mobile 
phone and the receipt for the phone. She suggested that the IMEI numbers might be 
different for different countries and said it wasnt her fault that Tesco didnt recognise her 
IMEI number. Ms C asked what other information she could provide and asked our 
investigator to phone the shop that shed purchased the mobile phone from, which was 
outside of the United Kingdom, to try and obtain that information. When our investigator 
declined to do so, Ms C requested an ombudsmans decision on the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I will explain why.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions. On page 30 of the policy terms and 
conditions, under the heading: What is covered it says:
Your or your familys personal possessions, money, credit cards and mobile phones are 
covered for loss, theft and damage anywhere in the UK., and for up to a total of 60 days in 
any period of insurance, when you and/or your family are abroad.
So, Ms Cs policy provides cover for personal belongings, which are lost, stolen or damaged 
away from the home, including for her mobile phone. 
However, on page 7 of the policy terms and conditions, under the heading, Claims 
conditions  what you need to do, at paragraph 6 it says:
6. You must cooperate with us fully in providing information and assistance to investigate 
and validate your claim. We will require proof of ownership and/or proof of loss...We will only 
ask you to provide information and assistance that is relevant to your claim. 
So, when making a claim on the policy, Ms C, is required by this condition to provide 
information thats relevant to the claim, which has been requested by Tesco. The IMEI 
number, which is the devices unique number, is a key piece of information that Tesco would 
need to validate Ms Cs claim. Therefore, Tescos request for Ms C to provide that 
information was reasonable.
Ms C insists that she has provided that information, by sending in a photo of a number on 
the outside of the phones box. However, Tesco maintains that the number isnt valid and 
explained that IMEI numbers dont contain the following character: /. Ms C suggested that 
the number might have a different format in the country which she purchased the mobile 
phone from. However, given its an International number I think that is unlikely. Tesco 
explained that Ms C could obtain the information by phoning her mobile phone provider, 
however she hasnt done so, and instead has asked that our service, or Tesco, make 
enquiries to obtain the necessary information.
Where an insured party makes a claim on their insurance policy, it is up to them to provide 
the necessary information to support their claim. Where they dont cooperate by providing 
information thats been reasonably requested by the insurer, as is the case here, it is 
reasonable for an insurer to decline to progress a claim. 
Tesco made a clear request for Ms C to provide specific information that is directly relevant 
to her claim. Tesco also provided Ms C with a clear explanation as to how she could obtain 
that information, but Ms C has failed to provide the outstanding IMEI number. Taking 
everything into account, I think Tesco has acted in line with the policy terms and conditions, 
and fairly and reasonably, in the circumstances, in declining to take Ms Cs claim any further. 
So, I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman