DRN-4245278
The complaint
Mr F is complaining that Tandem Motor Finance Limited, formerly 1st Stop Car Finance 
(1st Stop) shouldnt have lent to him  he says the lending was unaffordable. A 
representative has brought his complaint to us but for ease Ive written as if hes dealt with 
us directly.
What happened
In April 2018, Mr F took out a hire purchase agreement with 1st Stop to finance the purchase 
of a vehicle. He borrowed £6,495  the cash price of the vehicle. The agreement required 
Mr F to make 59 monthly repayments of £188.99, followed by a final instalment of £363.79. 
Mr F made all payments on time until May 2019, when he settled the loan in full. 
In April 2023, Mr F complained to 1st Stop, saying that at the time of lending hed had an 
account passed to a debt recovery company, so he thought 1st Stop had failed to conduct 
appropriate checks before lending to him. He added that hed taken out additional borrowing 
since March 2018 which reflected his dependence on borrowing.
In response, 1st Stop said all applications go through a creditworthiness and affordability 
assessment, and they speak to every customer before finalising the loan. In respect of Mr F 
specifically, they said theyd verified his income by looking at the average monthly income on 
his February 2018 payslip. They reviewed his credit file and found three defaults, all for low 
amounts and all more than 12 months old. They found he had three active credit 
agreements, with a total balance of £11 and no missed payments or arrears. So they thought 
Mr F was in a stable financial position and would likely have been able to meet repayments 
out of his normal household income. They didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr F was unhappy with 1st Stops response and brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying he thought 1st Stop had done enough to 
check that the lending was affordable for Mr F.
Mr F remained unhappy so asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. In doing so, he 
provided his bank statements for much of the period leading up to the lending decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and recognising itll be disappointing for Mr F, Im not upholding his 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator  Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did 1st Stop carry out proportionate checks?
1st Stop said they carried out the following checks:
reviewed Mr Fs credit file;
checked his income to the monthly average on his payslip; and
spoke with Mr F on the phone to confirm the agreement was affordable for him.
1st Stop have provided a copy of Mr Fs credit file. I can see the total value of his defaults at 
the time was £576 and Mr F had a total balance on his active credit agreements of £11. The 
credit file also shows Mr F had no defaults in the previous 12 months and one in the 
previous 36 months, with the other two dated 2013 and 2014.
Ive also looked at Mr Fs copy of his credit report and I cant see any other issues which 
might have indicated Mr F was in financial difficulties in April 2018. Whilst I can see Mr F has 
an account with a debt collector, theres limited information available about the account and 
it didnt default until 2021. I cant see when it was transferred to the debt collector, or what 
the payment history was before April 2022  but it looks likely this was the mail order 
account which appears on 1st Stops copy of the credit file with a balance of £11. 
Ive seen the payslip 1st Stop checked and can see theyve divided the year to date net pay 
by the 11 months of the tax year at the time to get to a monthly average net income of 
£1,291. Im satisfied this was a proportionate way for 1st Stop to assess Mr Fs income. 
I havent heard a recording of the call between 1st Stop and Mr F, but Im satisfied the checks 
were proportionate without hearing the call. Thats because 1st Stop checked Mr Fs income 
to his payslips and there were no indicators from his credit file that he was in any financial 
difficulties or that he had any significant credit commitments. Although Mr Fs income was 
relatively low, his repayments were also low, so proportionate checks didnt necessarily 
require 1st Stop to assess Mr Fs expenditure.
Did 1st Stop make a fair lending decision?
1st Stop were aware Mr F had monthly income of £1,291 and from that would need to make 
repayments of around £189. They also had a copy of Mr Fs tenancy agreement, showing 
that it was a joint tenancy with monthly rent of £650. So it would have been reasonable for 
them to assume Mr F would need to contribute £325 towards the rent. From Mr Fs credit 
file, 1st Stop were aware he had no other significant credit commitments. So after paying his 
rent and his car repayments he would have £777 per month to cover bills, other household 
expenditure and any discretionary and emergency expenditure. 
1st Stop said their checks indicated that Mr F should have been able to meet repayments out 
of his normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation. Im satisfied that 
conclusion was fair and reasonable  Mr Fs income seemed sufficient to cover the 
repayments, his rent, and other necessary expenditure.
In summary, I cant say 1st Stops checks werent proportionate, or that they didnt make a 
fair lending decision given the outcome of those checks. So Im not upholding Mr Fs 
complaint.My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint  against Tandem Motor Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman