DRN-2333384
The complaint
Mr M complains Fairmead Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim for subsidence on 
his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Fairmead used a loss adjuster to investigate and manage the claim. It in turn used a number 
of specialists to look after aspects of the claim. When I refer to the actions of Fairmead it 
includes the actions of the various experts as well.
Mr M purchased his house in November 2017 and insured it with an Fairmead buildings 
insurance policy. He noticed cracking in an extension at the rear of the property and reported 
it to Fairmead in July 2018.
Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster (LA) to investigate the claim and it arranged an 
inspection of the damage by an engineer. His report said the damage had occurred due to 
clay shrinkage subsidence. It explained the extension would needed to have complied with 
the appropriate building regulations at the time. This would have stated the structural 
elements of the building would need to have been able to carry the loads expected and the 
foundations adequate for any movement of the ground caused by subsidence.
The report concluded the movement in the building was a likely indication that the foundation 
depth of the extension wasnt sufficient to take account of the trees nearby. It said therefore 
the extension was deficient in design and/or installation.
Following the report, the LA wrote to Mr M and asked him for a copy of the final building 
certificate to show the extension had been properly inspected. He provided this. It confirmed 
it would arrange monitoring of the interaction of the trees with the movement in the building. 
The LA appointed a number of experts to undertake monitoring of the movement of the 
building. Mr M says, because Fairmead did this, he was led to believe his claim had been 
accepted.
In September 2018 a further inspection took place and this showed foundations for the 
house and extension were both 1,200mm deep. 
Further investigations were undertaken by an aboriculturist and by the LA. The LA said that 
for the size of the tree and the proximity to the extension, according to the guidelines 
produced by a certain builder of new homes, N, the foundations should have been to a 
depth of 2500mm rather than the 1,200mm it had found.
It said the nearby trees caused the clay below the foundations to dry out and shrink following 
the long hot summer in 2018. And because the foundations werent deep enough, it resulted 
in subsidence and the cracking in the extension. It said the cause was therefore a 
shortcoming in the original design and workmanship of the foundations of the extension 
which was excluded under the policy.
Mr M was unhappy with this and complained to Fairmead. It acknowledged Mr M had a 
building regulations report from the time the extension was built and that he had no 
knowledge the foundations werent correct but it maintained its position and the claim 
remained declined. 
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint and 
said she didnt think it was fair Fairmead relied on Ns guidelines for foundation depths to 
reject the claim. She said these guidelines were for newly constructed houses rather than for 
extensions. 
She went on to say the foundations met the requirements set out in building regulations at 
the time and Fairmead hadnt done enough to show the exclusion it was relying on applied. 
She thought therefore Fairmead should therefore pay the claim
Fairmead disagreed with this and asked an ombudsman to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Damage of the type Mr Ms house has experienced inevitably causes significant 
inconvenience and stress to the policyholder. I cant hold the insurance company 
responsible for this though. But what I can do is take a closer look at how Fairmead handled 
things and see if it did what Id have expected it to do when dealing with the claim.
I will be considering this while keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
My starting point for this decision is the exclusion that Fairmead says applies in this case. 
The terms of the policy explain that subsidence is covered but it will not pay for:
Defaults and faults
Any loss or damage arising from defective design, defective materials, faulty 
workmanship
Fairmead accepts the extension has been damaged by subsidence and it says this was 
caused by clay shrinkage due to nearby trees. It says the foundations werent properly 
designed because they werent deep enough. The onus here is on Fairmead to show this is 
the case if it wants to rely on this exclusion to decline the claim. So, the question at the crux 
of this complaint is whether Fairmead done this.
Was it fair for Fairmead to use Ns standards?
Fairmead has used Ns guidelines for newly-built homes to decide the extension and 
foundations were defective and therefore decline the claim. But I disagree with this 
approach.
It said Mr Ms extension foundations were at a depth of 1,200mm and Ns guidelines showed 
they should be at 2,500mm given the situation and type of nearby trees. 
Although I understand where these figures come from, Ive not seen anything to show 
Mr Ms extension was subject to these standards at the time it was built. It doesnt appear 
the extension was built as part of a new home or that the builder was required to take these 
standards into account for any other reason. So I dont think it would be fair to judge the 
design of the foundations against these standards  they simply dont apply.While I acknowledge Fairmeads view, its not generally the approach this service adopts. 
And Fairmead hasnt shown me sufficient evidence to persuade me to deviate from this 
approach.  
Was the extension built in line with the relevant guidelines?
Fairmead also said the extension didnt meet building regulations but it didnt provide a copy 
of the regulations it had considered to reach this conclusion.
Our investigator found the regulations applicable from the time and these say the foundation 
depth should be a minimum of 900mm. They go on to say that where there are trees nearby, 
the depths may need to be increased to transfer the loading on to satisfactory ground.
In this case, there are trees in the vicinity of the extension and as the ground is made up of 
shrinkable clay, the builders needed to take into account the influence of the trees. Given  
the foundations are 1,200mm deep  some 33% deeper than the minimum required  on 
balance, it seems to be more likely than not the requirement to take the impact of the trees 
into account was met. 
Im also mindful here the extension was signed off by the building control manager of the 
local borough council and Mr M has provided a certificate confirming this. So, it seems to me 
more likely than not the building control manager was satisfied the extension met the 
required building standards.  
Fairmead argues that just because a structure meets Building Regulation Approval doesnt 
prove it was competently designed. It short, it speculates the certificate may have been 
issued erroneously and the design defect overlooked or inappropriately sanctioned. But my 
role here is not to question the competence of the Building Control Manager responsible for 
issuing the certificate and Fairmead hasnt presented evidence to support its speculation.
In summary, Im satisfied the foundations went beyond the minimum depth required and the 
extension had the benefit of a building control certificate of completion. So while I 
acknowledge what Fairmead has said, I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me its 
more likely than not the extension foundations were defective in design. It follows Im not 
persuaded it can fairly rely on the exclusion to decline the claim. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Fairmead should now accept the claim for subsidence damage and deal 
with it.
When Fairmead responded to Mr Ms complaint, it didnt go into detail about how it would 
resolve the subsidence problem if it were to deal with Mr Ms claim, because it didnt need to 
 it was declining the claim. For that reason I dont think it would be appropriate for me to 
make a finding on how Fairmead should deal with the claim.
However, I will explain that as a guiding principle, we generally expect insurers to provide a 
lasting and effective repair. In a subsidence claim, that means stabilising the building. There 
are different ways of achieving that, including removing trees and/or underpinning. Whats 
most appropriate depends on the particular circumstances of the claim. We also expect 
insurers to handle claims promptly and to take into account the timescale of any possible 
actions when deciding how to handle a claim fairly.
To move the claim forward Fairmead should reassess the information it has about the claim. 
It should set out clearly to Mr M how it intends to handle the claim in order to provide a 
lasting and effective repair  and the likely timeframe involved.Fairmead should also cover the £316 cost of the surveyor Mr Ms instructed after the claim 
was declined together with interest at 8% simple from the day he can evidence he made 
payment to the day it reimburses him.
I can see the unfair decline of the claim would have caused Mr M distress and 
inconvenience and Fairmead should pay him an additional £200 in recognition of this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Fairmead Insurance Limited to 
Accept Mr Ms claim and deal with it in line with my comments above.
Pay him £316 together with 8% simple interest from the day he can evidence he paid 
the surveyor to the date it reimburses him*
Pay him £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it caused him
Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
* If Fairmead Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman