DRN-3332930
The complaint
Mr L and Miss G complained about how Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) dealt with a 
claim under their home insurance policy.
As Mr L mainly dealt with the complaint, Ive normally only referred to him. References to 
Soteria include agents and companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr L contacted Soteria when his foot went through a bedroom floor in his home. Soteria sent 
a loss adjuster to assess the damage, which was found to be the result of an escape of 
water. Mr L wanted a cash settlement for the claim, so he could use his own builders to carry 
out the repairs. Soteria offered £706.99, with the excess to be deducted from this amount. 
Mr L said this amount was too low. So, Soteria asked him to provide a quote. Mr Ls quote 
was for £6,190 plus VAT.
Due to the difference in costs, Soteria asked Mr L for more evidence to support his claim. Mr 
L provided further details, including photos. Soteria was unsure of which rooms some of the 
photos were of. It told Mr L it would need to carry out a further inspection to determine the 
level of damage and what should be included in the claim.
Mr L complained to Soteria. He said Soteria should have carried out a proper inspection in 
the first place and that the amount offered was too low. When Soteria replied, it said the offer 
made was based on the damage observed during its visit to Mr Ls property. It also noted 
that Mr L didnt want to use Soterias contractors. Mr L had also said he didnt want to deal 
with the company Soteria appointed to assess the claim, so Soteria agreed to deal with Mr L 
directly. When Mr L provided further details, it couldnt tell which rooms the damage related 
to and it wasnt able to validate the estimates, as a more detailed breakdown of the costs 
was needed. Based on the information it currently had, it was unable to increase its offer. It 
said it could arrange a video call to assess the damage without the need for a visit. 
Otherwise, Mr L would need to provide further evidence to substantiate the cost. However, it 
accepted its service and communication could have been better during the claim and offered 
£75 compensation because of this.
When Mr L complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
it was reasonable for Soteria to want to assess the damage further, whether this was 
because it had failed to carry out a proper assessment in the first place or to check whether 
all of the work listed in Mr Ls quote should form part of the claim. She said the £75 
compensation was reasonable in the circumstances.
As Mr L didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The policy said:
If we are able to offer repair or replacement through a supplier approved by us but we agree 
to make a cash settlement, or for you to use your own supplier, then any
payment will not exceed the amount we would have paid our approved supplier.
Soteria said it could carry out the repairs. However, Mr L said he wanted to use his own 
contractors. So, based on the wording of the policy, Soteria only needed to settle the claim 
at the amount it would have cost to carry out the work itself, not the cost to Mr L. This was 
the basis on which Soteria made its cash settlement offer to Mr L.
Mr L provided a quote from a builder for the work. This was for a much higher amount than 
Soterias settlement figure. It isnt unusual for there to be a difference between the amount 
an insurer can carry out work for and what a policyholder would pay for the same work. This 
is because insurers can often negotiate very competitive rates for works to be carried out.
Looking at the details of Mr Ls quote, this includes work that isnt included in Soterias scope 
of work, such as redecorating some rooms, the stairs and landing. Im aware Mr L has said 
Soteria should have identified all of the damage during its visit. Given the clear differences 
between what Soteria thinks is the level of damage compared to Mr Ls assessment of this, I 
think the fairest way to resolve this was for Soteria to assess again what damage should be 
included, which is what it offered to do. 
As part of that Im aware Mr L has said he has done everything that was asked of him by 
Soteria to support his claim. Im also aware that Mr L might not want to allow anyone into his 
home. However, Soteria also offered to carry out a video assessment and said Mr L could 
also provide other evidence to support his claim. I think that is reasonable in the 
circumstances. It is Mr Ls choice whether he wants to take up any of these options, but I 
dont think it would be reasonable for me to require Soteria to increase its cash settlement 
based on the information currently available.
Im also aware that this has been a lengthy claim. Some of that seems to be because of Mr 
Ls health problems and also an issue with him getting further details from his builder. This 
meant there was a delay of several months in him providing more information to support his 
claim. However, Soteria accepts it could also have done more to try and progress the claim 
at times. It offered £75 compensation for the issues it was responsible for. In the 
circumstances, I think that was reasonable and I dont require Soteria to pay anything 
further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman