DRN-3406765
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) handling of a subsidence 
claim made under their buildings insurance policy. Mr and Mrs T are represented by Mr H. 
Any references to Aviva include its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out a buildings insurance policy with Aviva in 2007. In 2011 they made a 
claim because they suspected both their home and garage were being impacted by 
subsidence. Aviva instructed a structural engineer. They inspected the property and, based 
on their report and having considered a historic claim, part of the claim accepted by Aviva. 
However, some of the damage wasnt covered on the basis Aviva said there was evidence 
of historic damage that pre-dated the start of the policy.
Theres a significant history to this claim. But in February 2020, Mr H sent Avivas structural 
engineer an email. He complained several parts of the claim hadnt been covered or had 
only been partially covered and he didnt know why. In April 2020, Aviva responded to the 
complaint about these specific points. It said there wasnt any evidence the front wall, 
second floor (including the doors), or guttering had been impacted by subsidence. In regard 
to the garage, it agreed there had been subsidence but said building defects had contributed 
to this, so it had made a partial offer to settle this part of the claim.
Unhappy with this response, Mr H referred Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who said there wasnt sufficient evidence to suggest 
Aviva ought to cover what Mr H said were the outstanding issues as part of the claim. As Mr 
H said Mr T and Mrs T didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by clarifying that Ive only considered those issues raised by Mr H on behalf of Mr T 
and Mrs T in the complaint email sent in February 2020. I acknowledge Mr H has since told 
us of a number of issues he, alongside Mr T and Mrs T, consider are unresolved. Against 
this background, Aviva has told us it considers the claim settled and these issues havent 
been raised with it first. I think its right Aviva first has an opportunity to consider and 
comment on those issues Mr T and Mrs T consider are unresolved. 
For those issues I can decide on, Ive started by considering how the policy defines 
subsidence, and sets out what it will and wont cover: 
We will provide cover for loss of or damage to the buildings caused by any of the 
following:
 9. Subsidence or heave of the land on which the buildings stand
We will not cover:
Damage if you knew when this policy started that any part of the buildings has 
already been damaged by subsidence, heave or landslip, unless you have told 
us about this and we have accepted it
Damage caused by faulty materials, design or poor workmanship
Ill turn first to the point Mr H has made about the front wall. He says damage to the front wall 
should not have been declined and an independent report had been provided to support 
their view it should be covered. Aviva acknowledges there is damage, but considers it is 
historic and occurred before the policy came into effect. 
Ive seen documentation from 2013 and 2014 that addresses the situation with the wall. The 
documentation consistently refers to historic damage and being part of a claim from the early 
2000s  before the policy began. This seems to me to lend more weight to the argument put 
forward by Aviva that the damage to the wall occurred before the policy came into effect. On 
this basis, Im satisfied Avivas decision to decline the claim for the damage to the wall as it 
occurred before the policy began was in line with the policy terms.  
Ive considered the points Mr H has raised about the second floor, internal doors, and 
guttering. Mr H says these have been impacted by the subsidence. In doing so, Ive 
considered the correspondence sent by Avivas structural engineer in 2015. This 
acknowledged the upper floors were distorted, but the reports provided indicate this 
movement was historic in nature, and not caused by subsidence.
Its also acknowledged the doors on the second floor were warped. However, the overall 
conclusion reached by Aviva, and their structural engineers, was that even though there is 
distortion to floors and doors this was the effect of age or environmental factors. I havent 
seen anything that would enable me to make the finding that it was more likely than not that 
the internal doors were damaged as a result of subsidence. And the fact there is damage 
does not mean it will automatically be put right under a claim. 
In respect of the guttering, its agreed there needed to be some local readjustment. But I 
havent seen anything which supports Mr Hs assertion that any movement of guttering was 
caused by subsidence. I acknowledge he, along with Mr T and Mrs T, believe this was the 
cause. On balance, the reports provided by the structural engineer do not enable me to say 
with certainty the damage is subsidence related. The quote provided to complete the repairs 
referenced subsidence. However, its not clear if this is something the company identified or 
whether this has been included because it was what they were told. I do not consider this 
quote to be sufficient to direct Aviva to settle the claim for the guttering. 
I appreciate this matter has been running for a long time. But I havent seen, from the 
information thats been provided, definitive evidence that would lead me to be more 
persuaded than not that the damage to the second floor, internal doors and guttering was as 
a result of subsidence. It follows, I dont think Aviva has acted incorrectly by declining these 
parts of the claim.
Ill turn now to the damage to the garage. Aviva acknowledged it has subsided. So, its not 
that this part of the claim was entirely declined. However, Avivas view was the garage had 
experienced subsidence as a result of a building defect. It said the cause of the damage was 
as a result of roof spread. 
Im mindful Mr H has provided his own independent report which states that the cause of the 
damage wasnt roof spread. In the face of conflicting information, Ive considered the steps 
Aviva has taken to settle this part of the claim. Im satisfied Avivas approach to pay to 
dismantle the garage and meet the cost of building a new foundation to the original size was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Im not going to require it to do anything more in 
respect of this part of the claim. 
While I realise my decision wont be the one Mr T and Mrs T are hoping for, Im not 
persuaded Aviva acted unfairly by declining these parts of their claim.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman