DRN-3112198
The complaint
Miss Ts complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has added her name to insurance 
fraud databases following its cancellation of her car insurance policy.
  
What happened
Miss T applied for the policy in November 2015 via a comparison website. During the 
application process Miss T indicated she hadnt been involved in any accidents or claims, 
regardless of blame, in the previous five years. UKI started the policy based on the answers 
she provided. 
Shortly afterwards, UKI became aware that Miss T had been involved in a non-fault claim in 
May 2013 and a fault claim in November 2013. On considering her explanation as to why 
she hadnt declared this information when asked, UKI chose to cancel the policy and offer 
Miss T a proportional refund of her premium. UKI also added her name to two insurance 
fraud databases.
Miss T said she only became aware of the database entries when she came to apply for car 
insurance with another insurer in 2020. The insurer refused to provide her with cover 
because of the entries and it cancelled her policy. Miss T complained to UKI.  
UKI replied to Miss T that it had dealt with the misrepresentation appropriately in 2015 and 
that it had made it clear to her at the time that customer details could be passed to fraud 
prevention agencies if such activity was detected. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Miss T brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. The investigator was 
persuaded that the information relating to Miss Ts previous claims had been misrepresented 
to UKI and that it had been fair for UKI to ultimately cancel the policy and add her name to 
the databases as a result. 
Miss T didnt agree with the investigators findings. She accepted she made a mistake when 
answering the application questions but said it had been made genuinely as opposed to 
deliberately or recklessly as UKI believed. Miss T added that UKI didnt tell her that her 
name had been added to fraud databases and that this should have been made clear to her 
at the time.
 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally by the investigator, it was passed to me to 
review afresh. I considered the complaint and issued my provisional decision in October 
2021. In it, I explained why I intended to uphold the complaint. Essentially, I thought that 
Miss T hadnt deliberately or recklessly misrepresented her previous claims but rather had 
done so carelessly. I asked UKI to remove any adverse entries on any fraud databases 
regarding the unfair cancellation of the policy and to pay Miss T £300 as compensation for 
the upset and inconvenience it had caused her.
I gave the parties the chance to respond before I reconsidered the complaint. Miss T said 
she agreed with my decision. She asked for clarification as to whether shed need to 
disclose having been refused or denied insurance when taking out cover in future. She 
wanted to know if, by accepting my decision, this meant she could reasonably say shed 
never been denied or refused insurance.
UKI said it would agree to put things right for Miss T as Id set out although it wasnt 
prepared to pay her £300. It said Miss T shouldnt be compensated for her own 
carelessness.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and after taking account of the responses to my provisional decision, Ive 
decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Misrepresentation
Miss T accepts that, when she applied for the policy, she answered the question relating to 
previous claims incorrectly. That being the case, Im satisfied that information was 
misrepresented to UKI and that the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA) applies. 
In line with CIDRA, Id need to consider whether theres been a qualifying misrepresentation. 
That means Id first need to consider if Miss T took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation to UKI. Miss Ts already accepted she didnt tell UKI about the claims 
made in 2013. I dont believe a reasonable consumer would have answered as she did. 
To consider whether theres been a qualifying misrepresentation, I must also look at whether 
UKIs shown that, without the misrepresentation, it wouldnt have entered into the contract at 
all or would have only done so on different terms. UKIs provided a statement from one of its 
underwriters to the effect that cover would have been offered but on less favourable terms. 
Thats because the underwriter says Miss T included no claims discount protection on the 
policy which she wasnt eligible for due to her previous claims. So, Im satisfied that its likely 
there was a qualifying misrepresentation. 
UKI believes Miss Ts misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless as opposed to careless. 
That means it believes Miss T knew the misrepresentation was untrue or misleading or didnt 
care if that was the case. That would also mean she knew that the matter to which the 
misrepresentation related was relevant to UKI or didnt care if it was relevant. In the 
circumstances, I think on balance that it wasnt fair for UKI to conclude Miss Ts 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. Its for UKI to show thats the case but I dont 
think its done enough to do that. 
Thats because I havent seen strong enough evidence to cast doubt on Miss Ts 
explanation. Specifically, she says the letter UKI sent her asking her to explain her answers 
had probably been misplaced and that shed had a bereavement in the family around the 
time in question, which is why she hadnt responded to its calls sooner. That explanation 
seems reasonable to me and Im prepared to accept it.
Regarding the first claim, Miss T told UKI she thought she only had to disclose incidents 
relating to the car she was looking to insure whereas her previous claim was for a different 
car. As for the second claim, Miss T said she thought shed already disclosed it.  I accept that Miss T ought reasonably to have disclosed these incidents, but I believe she 
made a genuine mistake that was more likely to have been due to carelessness than 
anything else. I dont think UKIs provided enough information to demonstrate, on balance, 
that the failure was deliberate or reckless on her part  something that, as I say, is for UKI to 
show. 
In the light of that, I dont think UKI was entitled to cancel the policy.   
Fraud database entries and impact
Given that I dont believe Miss T acted deliberately or recklessly, it follows that I also dont 
believe it was fair for UKI to go a step further than cancelling the policy and add Miss Ts 
name to the fraud databases. 
As one of the database administrators website says, fraud is a serious criminal offence. Its 
definition of insurance fraud includes making, or attempting to make, a gain by intentionally 
or dishonestly making false representations.
One of the entries UKI made in relation to Miss T refers to undeclared claims. 
I accept that UKI was entitled to add consumers details to the databases in certain 
circumstances. For example, the policy terms stated UKI reserved the right to cancel its 
products and share information about consumers behaviour with other organisations to 
prevent further fraud. However, it seems to me that it has discretion over whether to do so 
and that this should be exercised fairly.
It seems to me that the avoidable cancellation of Miss Ts policy in 2015 was, in itself, 
upsetting and frustrating for her. No doubt these feelings were compounded in 2020 when 
she found out not only that UKI was ultimately responsible for the cancellation of her policy 
with another insurer, but also that this was due to entries UKI had made on two fraud 
databases several years earlier.
In addition, Miss T says that not being able to arrange car insurance, meaning of course that 
she was unable to drive, caused her (and her family) a great deal of inconvenience in her 
day-to-day life. 
In terms of putting things right for Miss T, I understand that the database entries were made 
in or around November 2015, and that one was due to remain for five years and the other for 
six years. That being the case, one of the entries should no longer be active. But UKI should 
arrange for the remaining active entry to be removed with immediate effect.
Effectively, Miss T should be put in the position as though the policy hadnt been cancelled 
and her name hadnt been added to any fraud databases. If Miss T needs written evidence 
from UKI regarding the unfair cancellation or entries in order to help her in applying for 
insurance in future, UKI should provide it. 
I also believe UKI should pay Miss T £300 in compensation for the upset and inconvenience 
caused by its handling of the misrepresentation and the consequences for her that followed. 
Ive thought carefully about what UKI says about not compensating consumers for their own 
carelessness. But the award is for what followed her careless misrepresentation  namely, 
the unfair cancellation of the policy, the database entries and their impact on Miss T. 
Just because Ive found Miss T carelessly misrepresented the facts doesnt mean that UKI 
no longer had a responsibility, from that point in time or at any other stage, to treat her fairly. 
Ive found that UKI didnt treat her fairly and the compensatory award Ive made reflects the impact of that. So, I still think the awards warranted.  
Putting things right
UKI should: 
Remove any entries it placed on the fraud databases in relation to Miss T with 
immediate effect. If Miss T needs supporting evidence from UKI regarding its unfair 
cancellation of the policy or to show she hadnt acted fraudulently, deliberately or 
recklessly in applying for the policy, UKI should provide it; and
Pay Miss T £300 as compensation for the upset and inconvenience its actions have 
caused her.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to put things 
right for Miss T as explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman