DRN-3926915
The complaint
Mrs P complains that when her stocks and shares ISA was transferred to Financial 
Administration Services Limited (Fidelity):
- it opened a Cash Management Account that she had not requested, and took 
servicing fees from this account;
- it did not reinvest income despite having been instructed to do so, and 
- the value of the holdings in her ISA have fallen in value since her account was 
transferred.
What happened
I understand that Mrs Ps ISA account was migrated to Fidelity in September 2021. After her 
ISA had been transferred to Fidelity Mrs P complained about the issues set out above.
Fidelity did not uphold Mrs Ps complaint. It said that in the information it had sent to Mrs P 
before her account was migrated it set out that a separate Cash Management Account 
would be arranged. The information also explained that this account was to help manage 
cash held in her portfolio and to pay fees efficiently where possible.
Fidelity also confirmed that the charges it had applied to Mrs Ps account were not more than 
she had paid to her previous ISA provider. It explained that it set out its fees in two parts, a 
service fee to cover the cost of setting up and administering the account and an investment 
charge to meet the costs of investing in the funds Mrs P had selected.
It explained that the cash amount Mrs P had referred to in her complaint was not an 
income payment but had been transferred to it as cash by Mrs Ps previous ISA provider.
It also noted that Mrs P was unhappy with the performance of her funds. It explained that it 
was not responsible for the performance of funds on its platform. 
Mrs P was not satisfied with Fidelitys response and referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator said she didnt think Fidelity had acted incorrectly or treated Mrs P unfairly. 
As this was the case, she said she didnt think it needed to do anything to resolve Mrs Ps 
complaint.
Mrs Ps representative responded to say that Mrs P remained unhappy about the charges 
Fidelity had applied to her ISA, particularly in light of the poor investment performance of her 
holdings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs P has made a separate complaint about delays in the closure of her 
ISA account. I have not considered the closure of Mrs Ps ISA as part of this decision. That 
complaint will be considered separately.
I am sympathetic to the points Mrs Ps representative has made about the performance of 
Mrs Ps holdings. It is always disappointing when an investment does not perform as well as 
expected. But I cant reasonably agree that Fidelity should waive or reduce its fees because 
the holdings in Mrs Ps ISA have fallen in value. Ill explain why.
As Fidelity has set out, it is an investment platform; it is not the fund manager for Mrs Ps 
holdings. This means it is not involved in the investment decisions made by the fund 
managers and it is not responsible for the performance of her investments. I therefore cant 
reasonably say that Fidelity should reduce its fees to compensate Mrs P for any fall in the 
value of her ISA.
The fees Fidelity has charged Mrs P are for administering her ISA, and an investment 
charge. Both fees were set out in the information that was provided to Mrs P before her ISA 
account migrated to Fidelity. Based on the information that has been provided to this service 
I am satisfied that the fees that have been applied by Fidelity are in line with the fees Mrs P 
was paying to her previous ISA provider. 
I understand that Fidelity has confirmed that the fees Mrs P would be charged after her ISA 
was migrated would not be more than she had paid to her previous ISA provider, for a 
minimum of 12 months from the date her ISA was transferred to Fidelity. 
Having carefully considered this complaint, although I do appreciate that Mrs P is 
disappointed with the investment performance of her holdings and feels Fidelity should 
reduce its fees to reflect the fall in their value, I cant reasonably require Fidelity to do so. 
The fees were clearly disclosed, and I am satisfied that Fidelity is entitled to apply these fees 
to Mrs Ps ISA.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mrs P was hoping for, but I hope my explanation 
will help her to understand why I am not able to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman