DRN-3353845
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Assicurazioni Generali SpA (AGS) declined her claim against her 
medical insurance policy. Reference to AGS includes its agents. 
Mr P is assisting Mrs P in bringing her complaint. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs P is a member of a group private medical insurance policy. 
She had pain in her left knee. In October 2020, Mrs Ps GP referred her to an  
orthopaedic consultant for a private assessment. Mrs P asked AGS to cover her claim.  
AGS declined Mrs Ps claim. It relied on an exclusion in relation to chronic conditions. 
AGS said that the clinical information it had was that Mrs P had symptoms over the last 
four to five years and had a diagnosis of osteoarthritis in 2017. Mrs P didnt accept that 
and pursued her complaint. 
Mrs P says that AGS should have authorised her claim so that an examination and 
proper investigations could have taken place. She says that AGS acted prematurely in 
deciding that her condition was a chronic condition. Mrs P says that a subsequent 
consultation in March 2021 with a consultant orthopaedic surgeon in the NHS 
established that she needed surgery. She says that could have been established much 
sooner if AGS had authorised the consultation with the orthopaedic surgeon in     
October 2020. 
 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that AGS had 
acted unfairly in declining Mrs Ps claim. The investigator said that, based on the medical 
information made available to AGS, it acted reasonably in concluding that the referral 
was for a chronic condition and therefore excluded under Mrs Ps membership. 
Mrs P didnt agree with the investigator. She said:
The GPs referral letter in October 2020 referred to foot pain, which was new.
Surgery is a cure for osteoarthritis.
The initial x-ray of her knee was taken in mid-2017. That x-ray shouldnt be used 
to conclude that a diagnosis is established. Another x-ray in 2020 would have 
assessed the condition and a consultant would have decided on the next course 
of action. 
Mrs P asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
In this decision Im looking at AGS decision to decline Mrs Ps claim in late 2020 in 
relation to treatment for her knee. That matter was dealt with in AGS final response to 
Mrs P dated 4 December 2020. I appreciate that events have moved on and that Mrs P 
may have made a claim for other treatment. Any matters arising from a later claim arent 
dealt with here, as AGS hasnt had an opportunity to address any further concerns Mrs P 
may have.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant membership terms 
The starting point is the terms of Mrs Ps membership, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows: 
 
What does my policy not include?
The following conditions, treatments and services are not covered by your policy:
[...]
2 Exclusions
Your healthcare scheme is designed to cover treatment for curable, short-term illness or
injury (commonly known as acute conditions).
The Insurer will not pay benefits for:
[]
2.4 Chronic Conditions treatment of chronic conditions
A disease, illness or injury, which has at least one of the following characteristics:
a) Continues indefinitely and has no known cure
b) Comes back or is likely to come back
c) is permanent
d) Means you need to be rehabilitated or specially trained to cope with it.
e) Needs long-term monitoring, consultations, check-ups, examinations, or tests.
The insurer will however consider paying for:
a) Initial investigations to establish a diagnosis
b) Treatment for a limited period (3 months) following diagnosis to establish a treatment plan
c) In-patient treatment of acute exacerbations/flare-ups to get the condition stabilized
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AGS has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding Mrs Ps 
complaint because I dont think that AGS treated her unfairly. I say that because:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of membership. The onus is on the consumer to show that the claim falls 
under one of the agreed areas of cover. If the event is covered in principle but is 
declined on the basis of an exclusion, the onus shifts to the insurer to show how 
that exclusion applies.
I dont think that AGS was at fault in concluding that Mrs Ps claim related to a 
chronic condition and was therefore excluded under her membership. Ill explain why.
The referral letter dated 14 October 2020 from Mrs Ps GP said that shed had left 
knee pain for the last four to five years and that an x-ray in 2017 showed mild osteoarthritis. Mrs P says that surgery is a cure for osteoarthritis. The NHS website 
says that osteoarthritis is a long-term condition that cant be cured. I prefer to rely on 
the information on the NHS website. It doesnt appear that Mrs Ps condition was 
curable or a short-term illness or injury. I think it was  reasonable for AGS to 
conclude that Mrs Ps condition came within the definition of a chronic condition and 
was therefore excluded under the terms of her membership. 
Mrs P says that AGS shouldnt have relied on an x-ray from 2017. But I see no 
reason why it shouldnt have done so. That x-ray established the diagnosis of 
osteoarthritis. I dont think that the passage of time makes the x-ray or following 
diagnosis unreliable. I quite understand that Mrs P may wish to have a new x-ray and 
an update on her condition. But AGS isnt obliged to cover such a claim.
I agree that the GPs referral letter in October 2020 referred to foot pain, which was 
new. But the referral was for pain in Mrs Ps left knee, not her foot pain, so I dont 
think that alters the outcome here. 
Mrs Ps membership provides that AGS will consider paying for investigation and 
treatment of a chronic condition in certain limited circumstances, which Ive set out 
above. But those circumstances dont assist Mrs P here. The referral in October 2020 
wasnt in order to establish a diagnosis, or for treatment immediately following a 
diagnosis  Mrs P received a diagnosis in 2017. And the referral was for an out-
patient appointment, not for in-patient treatment of a flare-up of Mrs Ps condition. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs P but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold her     
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman