DRN-2718214
The complaint
Mr S says that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) unfairly recorded an accident 
claim on his motor insurance policy as a fault claim when hed already sold the car involved. 
He also complains that Admiral is unfairly asking him to pay the full years premium for the 
policy.
What happened
Mr S says he sold his car on 15 July 2016. At that time he was insured with Admiral. The car 
was involved in an accident on 17 July 2016. A claim was logged by a third party. Admiral 
recorded the claim against Mr S as a fault claim. But Mr S says he didn't own the car at the 
time and that he wasnt involved in the accident.
Mr S says he sent Admiral letters from the DVLA to prove he didnt own the car when the 
accident took place. But Admiral says the letters didnt prove Mr S wasnt the owner. He 
says Admiral is also chasing him for unpaid premiums. 
Mr S says he provided a copy of a handwritten receipt to Admiral as proof that hed sold the 
car on 15 July 2016. But Admiral didnt accept this as proof.
Mr S says he didnt hear from Admiral for a few years. But that in late 2019 he started
to receive letters from them asking him to pay the outstanding premium.
So Mr S complained to Admiral. It didnt uphold the complaint. Admiral said that Mr S hadnt 
provided enough proof that hed sold the car. It said the DVLA letters didnt show a change 
in ownership on 15 July 2016. So Mr S complained to this service.
Our first investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In his view dated 31 August 2020 he said 
that Admiral had acted fairly when itd asked for proof that Mr S had sold the car on 15 July 
2016. And he felt that Admiral had acted reasonably when itd said that the information Mr S 
had provided wasnt sufficient to prove that. 
Mr S didnt agree. So he asked the DVLA to provide a further letter which he felt showed that 
hed sold the car on 15 July 2016. Mr S shared that letter with this service and our second 
investigator upheld his complaint in her view dated 15 December 2020. She said it showed 
he wasnt the registered keeper on 15 July 2016.Admiral didnt agree. So the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this on 2 March 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I dont intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
The policy booklet is clear that a policyholder must let Admiral know immediately when he or 
she sells the insured vehicle or if the registered owner of the car has changed. For ease of 
reference, Ive included the relevant wording from page 13 of the booklet:
Please tell us immediately
if you sell your car
if the registered owner of your car has changed
Mr S didnt let Admiral know until 27 July 2016 that hed sold the car and that the owner had 
changed. This was 12 days after he says hed sold the car, 10 days after the accident took 
place, and 8 days after the accident was reported to Admiral. So its clear that Mr S didnt tell 
Admiral immediately about the changes.
Admiral explained in its 19 December 2019 letter to Mr S that if hed contacted them on 15 
July 2016 as required by the terms of his policy to advise that hed sold his car, it wouldve 
cancelled his cover on that date. Then it wouldnt have set up the claim dated 17 July 2016 
as he wouldntve been the insured.  Admiral said that because Mr S had failed to notify it 
about the sale until 27 July 2016 and as there was a claim reported to it on 17 July 2016, it 
needed enough evidence to prove he wasnt involved in this incident.  
When Mr S spoke to Admiral on 27 July 2016, he arranged to cancel the policy. But Admiral 
explained that as a fault claim had been made on the policy the full remaining premium was 
due.  Admiral told Mr S that itd needed proof that the car had been sold on 15 July 2016 to 
be able to back date the cancellation to that date. And the policy booklet goes even further 
than this (on page 34), stating that you cant cancel your policy from an earlier date:
Cancelling your policy
You may cancel cover under this policy for your car, at any time, by contacting us.
We will cancel your policy from the date you contact us, or from any later date you ask. You
cannot cancel your policy from an earlier date.
On page 35 of the policy booklet, the Cancelling your policy section continues:
If you have made a claim, or a claim has arisen during the period of insurance for your
car, your cars part of the premium is due, and no refund will be given, regardless of the
payment method. If this policy has only one car on cover, then the total premium is due,
and no refund will be given, regardless of the payment method.
So its clear from the policy booklet that Admiral was acting fairly and reasonably when it 
asked Mr S to pay the full years premium on the car.
Admiral said that the letters from the DVLA dont prove the transfer of ownership it needed to 
see. In fact, the most recent letter from the DVLA said hed never been the registered keeper 
of the car. It pointed out that even though Mr S may not have been the registered keeper, he 
could still be the owner. Admiral also said that at the time of the accident it had him noted as 
the policyholder and it has no evidence to show he wasnt the owner of the car at the time. 
So it couldnt agree that itd received enough evidence to show Mr S sold the car when he 
said he did. From what Ive seen, I cant say Bs decision that it hasnt received enough 
evidence is unfair or unreasonable. 
Admiral also said that the written receipt Mr S had provided wasnt good enough to prove the 
sale. It said Mr S had told them hed sold the car to a motor trader. It said if this was the 
case, he would have been provided with more than a written receipt on the back of an 
envelope. Admiral confirmed that it was listed as the only insurer of the car when the accident 
happened. It said that under the Road Traffic Act, this meant it had to deal with any third 
party claim that arose  regardless of who was driving the car at the time. So I can see why 
Admiral paid for this claim  it felt it had a legal responsibility to do so. Admiral also reported 
that Mr S didnt cooperate with its Claims Department when the accident was reported. 
Taking all of the evidence into account, Im persuaded that Admiral acted fairly and 
reasonably when it declined to accept the information Mr S provided as sufficient proof that 
he wasnt the owner when the accident took place. And Admiral acted fairly and in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. So Im satisfied that it acted fairly and reasonably when it 
recorded the accident as a fault claim against Mr S. 
I dont intend to uphold this complaint. I accept its possible Mr S did sell the car. And that it 
wasnt his when the accident happened. But unfortunately based on what Ive seen so far I 
cant say that Admiral has acted unfairly.
Response to my provisional decision
Admiral initially had nothing further to add.
Mr S asked specifically what information he could provide to Admiral to prove that the 
vehicle had been sold when he said it had. He explained how distressing its been for him. 
He felt hed co-operated with Admiral and their solicitors as much as he could. He felt that 
the written receipt he gave Admiral does prove that he sold the car. 
So we asked Admiral to explain what information would be acceptable to them. 
Admiral told us that the only document it can accept to prove Mr S didnt own the car at the 
time of the accident was a DVLA record. It acknowledged that hes not able to provide that. 
Admiral explained why it paid out for the claim. It noted it has a liability for third party claims 
while it remains the insurer on the Motor Insurance Database. As Mr S effectively left his 
Admiral policy running after he said hed sold the car, it remained insured by Admiral on that 
database. So when the claim was reported, no other insurer appeared on the database for 
the date of the loss. Admiral went on to say that the Motor Insurance Bureau wouldnt accept 
this as an uninsured vehicle claim. Admiral noted it was the only insurer on record. And it 
said it was unable to defend against the third party claim due to the lack of cooperation. It 
also said the law required it to settle any claims.
Admiral noted that from the evidence itd seen, it appears Mr S didnt tell the DVLA of his 
involvement with the vehicle at all. It said that it seems he never registered his ownership, 
despite claiming it by obtaining a policy of insurance. It says this is why he cant now prove 
when he stopped owning the vehicle. Admiral said that its attempts to prove transfer of 
interest failed because of Mr Ss failure to record both his purchase and alleged sale 
transactions with the DVLA as he was legally obliged to and failing to co-operate with our 
investigations.
Admiral went on to explain what it felt its choices were. It said the following:
Were liable because the customer made it so by their actions so they have to pay 
the full premium as per contract
He should not have been insured with us so we void and recover the whole claim 
cost instead
The customer proves another insurer or the MIB were liable instead of us  we tried 
to do that but due to lack of cooperation were unable to.Mr S said the only proof of sale he had was the written receipt. He said hes had legal advice 
that a sales receipt doesnt have to be on letter-headed paper. Hes also said that he will 
contact DVLA again to see if he can get more evidence from them. Mr S feels its very unfair 
that the claim is in his name when he wasnt the driver of the car, which hed sold. He also 
says he remains willing to try to resolve this matter with Admiral. 
Mr S also said that he would prefer Admiral to try to follow the option where the MIB is liable 
instead of Admiral. He said he doesnt believe Admiral has tried very hard to pursue this 
option and that he did co-operate with it.
My findings
I can see how upsetting this has been for Mr S. But based on all the evidence, I cant say 
that Admiral has treated him unfairly. I can see that it had no option when it paid for the 
claim. Its also explained why it cant accept a hand-written receipt as proof that the car was 
sold when Mr S said it was. And its explained why the DVLA record is so important. 
On reviewing the claim notes, I can also see that there were many occasions when it was 
noted that Mr S didnt co-operate. So, on balance of probabilities, I think Admiral did take 
reasonable steps to resolve the claim correctly.
Taking everything Admiral and Mr S have said and provided, Im persuaded that Admiral 
treated him fairly and reasonably when it declined to accept the information he provided as 
proof hed sold his car. Therefore it was fair and reasonable for Admiral to hold Mr S 
effectively responsible for the claim, even though he denies any involvement. And its fair 
and reasonable for Admiral to follow the terms and conditions of the policy and to ask Mr S 
to pay the full years premium.
I know this will be upsetting to Mr S. But I dont have enough evidence to find in his favour.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman