DRN-3850854
The complaint
Mr B complains that WR Simon Ashley Silver Independent Financial Advisor LImited mis-
advised him to switch the investments in his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to cash
in March 2020.
He is also unhappy about the length of time it took to complete the sale of the investments.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 3 November 2022. The background 
and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to 
uphold it were set out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant parts of it below, and it forms 
part of this final decision.
Copy of provisional decision
What happened
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She set out the background
and circumstances to the complaint in her assessment, a copy of which was sent to both
parties.
There doesnt appear to be a dispute about the circumstances of the complaint. But in brief,
during February and March 2020, near the start of the Covid pandemic, Mr B had several
exchanges with WR Simon Ashley Silver Independent Financial Advisor Limited (which I will
refer to as WR), about what to do with the investments in his pension given their falling
value.
WR was initially advising Mr B to remain invested. Mr B became increasingly concerned
about the falling value, and on 20 March 2020 WR sent him an e-mail recommending selling
the investments. The investments were sold and switched to cash. The value of the
investments had fallen by around £78,000 at that point.
The markets went on to recover, as did the value of the investments that Mr B had sold. Mr
B questioned the decision to sell the investments as it had effectively crystallised a
significant loss. Mr B subsequently transferred his SIPP to another pension provider on 3
July 2020, and terminated his relationship with WR. I understand the value transferred was
£252,110.
Mr B complained to WR, and subsequently referred the matter to us. One of our
investigators considered the complaint. She initially didnt think that it should be upheld. She
said she didnt think the time taken to act on the instructions to sell the investments had
been unreasonable (5/6 hours). And given the concerns expressed by Mr B about the falling
value of his investments, and in the context of the market volatility and extreme uncertainty 
at that time, she was satisfied the adviser had acted in Mr Bs best interests and given him 
suitable advice to switch to cash.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings, and asked for the case to be passed to an
ombudsman. The investigator asked WR for information it had recorded about Mr Bs
attitude to risk. It provided copies of Personal Fact Finds that had been completed for Mr B.
The investigator subsequently sent a second assessment of the complaint. She said, on
reflection, she didnt think the funds that Mr B had been invested in were suitable for his
cautious attitude to risk. She said prior to the switch to cash Mr B had been invested as 
follows
Holding Structure Asset Class
3I Infrastructure Investment Trust Equity**
Bluefield Solar Investment Trust Commodity/Energy
GCP Infrastructure Investment Trust Corporate Bond*
Greencoat UK Wind Investment Trust Commodity/Energy
The Renewables INF Investment Trust Commodity/Energy
*Underlying industry  energy (renewable)
** Underlying industry
The investigator said the portfolio was invested in a small number of holdings which were
highly concentrated and focussed on growth industries such as renewable energy and IT
infrastructure. She said she didnt think the investments were suitable for Mr Bs cautious
attitude to risk.
The investigator said she was satisfied that Mr B wanted advice about what to do with his
SIPP in March 2020. She said he was a cautious investor, and was clearly troubled by the
fluctuating value of his fund. She said she didnt think Mr B should have been advised to
switch to cash in March 2020, but instead should have been advised to stay invested but
move to more cautious funds in line with his attitude to risk. So she didnt think the advice to
switch to cash had been suitable in that context, and that she now thought the complaint
should be upheld.
WR didnt agree with the investigators revised findings. It said, in summary, that the
investigator had issued an adjudication unequivocally dismissing both complaints, saying
that for a cautious investor the advice to sell was correct at the time. But she had
subsequently come to the opposite conclusion. It said it didnt accept that the infrastructure
investments held prior to the switch were inappropriate, or so risky that they fell outside of
Mr Bs appetite for risk.
WR said it had provided full written prospectuses to Mr B prior to the acquisition of the
investments so that he could make an informed choice about them. It said Mr B had said,
after selling the investments and despite the fall in their value, that hed made a 6% profit on 
them, net of all charges. So it questioned where there was a loss?
It said although Mr B had said he was a cautious investor, hed subsequently invested in
individual shares which were high risk and volatile. It said given in March 2020 Mr B was
seeking to avoid any further falls in the value of his investments, it seemed very unlikely (on
the balance of probability) he would have agreed to move to lower risk holdings which werestill exposed to risk and potential further losses. It said in the context of the high volatility, low
inflationary environment, cash was the ultimate cautionary strategy for a period of time.
Mr B said that throughout the entire time hed spent as a client of WR hed made it very clear
that his view on investments should always be cautious. He said he thought his investments
after his time with WR followed what I thought was a cautious path.
WR said regardless of exactly how Mr B subsequently invested his funds, it was clear that
hed made his own decisions and did not base them on any advice it had provided. It said
once Mr B terminated the relationship with WR, it had no ongoing responsibility for any
investment decisions that he made.
WR said it didnt agree it should have advised Mr B to move to lower risk funds, nor that
given his concerns at the time, he would have followed such advice. His concern was to
avoid any further fall in the value of his holdings.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
WR has provided copies of Personal Fact Finds completed over a period of time. Mr B is
consistently recorded as Cautious for pensions. Within that category he is rated as 2 or 3
on a scale of 1-5, with 1 being the highest risk. So Mr B was not only cautious, he was
broadly in the middle of that category.
Ive looked at the investments that Mr Bs pension was invested in at the time that he
switched to cash. All the investments currently appear to be traded on the FTSE 250, and
their own literature describes their risks as being at least average, and some slightly above
average. As the investigator said, they were invested in a small number of holdings with a
narrow focus. In my view they were clearly not aligned to the cautious degree of risk that Mr
B had said he was willing to take; they presented a greater degree of risk and werent
suitable.
So I dont think its surprising that Mr B was worried about the significant falls in the value of
the investments during the early part of 2020. I accept that there was significant market
volatility across the broad spectrum of asset classes. Even funds/assets considered to be at
the safer end of the risk spectrum suffered falling values. But not to the same degree as
those exposed to greater degrees of risk.
So I think whats key is to consider the matter in that context; effectively that Mr B was
exposed to a greater degree of risk than hed agreed to accept. If hed been invested in
assets exposed to a cautious degree of risk they would still have fallen in value. But not to
the same degree as the mix of funds he was invested into. I think Mr B would still have been
concerned. But the value of his SIPP wouldnt have fallen by the same amount as when WR
advised the switch to cash.
Mr B has complained about WRs actions during the period January to March 2020. I
understand Mr B had a meeting with the firm on 30 January 2020 where his investments 
were discussed in the context of the potential impact of Covid. So I think WR had the 
opportunity at that point to review the degree of risk that the funds presented in relation to 
the degree of risk that Mr B was willing to take. Had it done so, it should have identified there 
was a mismatch between Mr Bs cautious risk profile and the degree of risk presented by the 
funds he was invested into.However Mr B had already been invested in these funds (or similar type) for several years by
January 2020. As I said above, WR has supplied copies of a number of Personal Fact Finds
completed over a number of years showing Mr B was a cautious investor. So WR had had a
number of opportunities to identify that the funds werent suitable.
It seems to me that WRs failing here, that came to light during the period of volatility in
2020, was to advise Mr B to invest in the mix of funds it recommended in the first place (in
2015/16). In my view Mr B, with suitable advice, should have been invested in cautious
funds all along.
At the time that the original advice was given the Financial Conduct Authoritys Conduct of
Business Sourcebook rules (COBS) required WR to provide suitable advice.
COBS 9.2.1 provided, when a firm was assessing suitability:
(1) A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a
decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
(2) When making the personal recommendation or managing his investments,
the firm must obtain the necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type
of designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is
suitable for him.
And COBS 9.2.2 provided:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing,
giving due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment,
his preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where
relevant, information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets,
including liquid assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial
commitments.Therefore in order to provide suitable advice, WR needed to have a reasonable basis for
believing that its recommendation met Mr Bs investment objectives  which included his
preferences regarding risk.
My understanding is that Mr B was originally invested in the following four infrastructure
funds.
HICL Infrastructure Company
3i Infrastructure Plc
GCP Infrastructure Investments
John Laing Infrastructure
The key features documents for each of the first three funds give a risk rating of 4 or 5 out of
7  so all above average risk. The objective for the John Laing investment said:
The Company invests predominantly in the equity and subordinated debt issued with respect
to infrastructure projects that are predominantly PPP projects. The Company predominantly
invests in projects that have completed construction and that are in their operational phase.
Investment capital in projects that are under construction will be limited to 30% of the Total
Asset of the Fund.
Again this fund presented material risks. I appreciate that the risks presented by funds can
change over time. And if WR has evidence showing the risks were lower in 2016 they can
present that evidence for consideration. But in my view the overall degree of risk presented
by the four funds in 2016 was clearly greater than the cautious degree of risk that Mr B had
agreed to take.
I dont know what the value of Mr Bs pension would have been through the relevant period
from January 2020 to when he transferred to another provider had he been invested in a
cautious manner from the off (2016). But I think the logical starting point is the fact that Mr B
shouldnt have been invested in a mix of funds presenting a greater degree of risk than hed
agreed to take in the first place. And any subsequent losses flow from that original
unsuitable advice.
Accordingly, like the investigator, I think Mr Bs complaint should succeed. However I think
fair compensation should be calculated using the original investment date as the starting
point. I understand the first investments were settled on 15 January 2016. So I think this is
the appropriate start date. Mr B decided to switch his SIPP to another provider which I
understand was completed on 3 July 2020. From this point he was making his own
investment decisions, and not relying on any advice from WR. I think this is the appropriate
end date for the calculation of any losses, particularly given the context outlined below.
I recognise that after Mr B transferred away from WR he chose to invest in a small number
of single company shares; for example Amazon and Apple. On the one hand, this might
indicate that Mr B wasnt actually a cautious investor. Whilst I accept that these are well
known brands, investing directly in these types of shares presents significant risks, and well
above a cautious risk profile.
However on the other, Mr B has said his understanding was that he was investing in a
cautious manner after he left WR. WRs recommendation letters record that Mr B had a
reasonable understanding of investments. However it appears that he wasnt aware that the
funds he was invested in through WR presented a greater than cautious degree of risk. And I
think his correspondence with WR following his switch to cash appears to show he wasnt
aware that the success or failure of WRs switch to cash could only be seen with the benefitof hindsight; WR (or anybody else) couldnt know for certain how the market was going to
move.
WR maintains that the funds it recommended for Mr B were aligned to the cautious degree
of risk that Mr B was willing to take. I think this shows in itself that assessing risks cant be a
straightforward matter for a non-professional. In my view Mr Bs evidence that he understood
he was investing in a cautious manner after he left WR is credible. I think this is consistent
with Mr B being recorded as a cautious investor throughout his relationship with WR. And
with Mr B accepting he was invested in a cautious manner when being told that by WR in its
correspondence with him.
So taking all the above into account, I think Mr Bs complaint should succeed.
For completeness, I agree with the investigator that WR carried out the switch to cash itself
in a timely manner.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
I went on to set out how I thought WR Simon Ashley Silver Independent Financial Advisor 
LImited should calculate and pay any compensation due to Mr B.
I asked Mr B and WR to send me any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision by 17 November 2022.
Mr B said, in summary, that apart from the severe mental anxiety the situation had caused 
him, he had nothing further to add.
WR asked for extra time to send in its response. It was given until 1 December 2022. It 
made further requests for more time, and the response date was extended again to 8 
December, and then to 14 December 2022. However no further evidence or arguments have 
been received to date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think WR has had ample opportunity and time to provide its response to my provisional 
decision. Having considered all the available evidence and arguments presented to date, 
Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision that the complaint should be 
upheld. 
Putting things right
I order that WR Simon Ashley Silver Independent Financial Advisor LImited calculates and 
pays any compensation due to Mr B on the following basis.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr B as close as
possible to the position he would probably now be in if hed been suitably invested from 15
January 2016.I think Mr B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would
have done. But Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr
B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should WR Simon Ashley Silver Independent Financial Advisor LImited do?
To compensate Mr B fairly WR should:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
WR should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, WR should pay it into Mr B's pension plan, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. WRs payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. WR shouldnt pay the compensation 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If WR is unable to pay the compensation into Mr B's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. I think Mr B is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction should equal 20%. 
However, if Mr B would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 
15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If WR considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B 
how much its taken off. WR should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate in 
respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
In addition, WR Simon Ashley Silver Independent Financial Advisor LImited should:
Pay Mr B £300 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the significant loss of 
his pension caused him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format.investment
name status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)     to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP Transferred 
to another 
providerfor half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate 
first 
investm
ents 
were 
made - 
15 
January 
2016Date of 
transfer 
to new 
provider 
 3 July 
2020.The same benchmark 
on any loss calculated 
as at the end date to 
the
date of a final
decision. Then 8%
simple a
year from the date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
WR being
notified of
Mr Bs
acceptance of
the decision
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, WR should
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. It 
should apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investments should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually
paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large
number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if WR total all those
payments and deduct that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean that Mr B 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
I order WR Simon Ashley Silver Independent Financial Advisor LImited to calculate and pay 
any compensation due to Mr B as I have set out above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman