DRN-1653510
The complaint
Mr O and Mrs S complain about the service received from Santander UK Plc when their 
online banking facility was locked.
What happened
Mr O was using his online banking facility when it became locked, so he phoned Santander 
to fix the problem. Santander asked a set of security questions to make sure they were 
talking to the right person. The answers Mr O gave didn't match the information Santander 
had, so they were unable to unlock the online banking. 
Santander told Mr O that if he went to a branch with some identification documents the lock 
could be lifted. Mr O said he wasn't able to go to a branch so Santander suggested that the 
other party to the account, Mrs S, do so on his behalf. Mrs S worked during the week, 
so Santander explained the branches were open on the weekend. Soon after Mrs S took the 
documents to a branch and the lock was removed so Mr O was able to use the online 
banking facility again.
Mr O was unhappy with the way he was treated so complained. Santander apologised 
for any inconvenience. They explained that safeguarding is important to prevent fraud and 
that's why they asked for documents to be taken to a branch. Mr O remained unhappy and 
brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr O's concerns and explained why Santander acted 
how they did with safeguarding and security procedures. Mr O felt that Santander had been 
discriminatory. Having listened to the telephone call our investigator thought Santander had 
acted reasonably in the questions they asked and the way Mr O was treated. Mr O 
disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've no doubt that Mr O and Mrs S were put to some effort in order to unlock their 
online banking. But being put to some effort doesn't necessarily mean that Santander acted 
unfairly. 
When online banking facilities become locked Santander has a security procedure they 
follow in order to safeguard from fraud. Mr O was taken through this procedure over the 
telephone.
Mr O is unhappy with the security questions he was asked. I can see the frustration here as 
asking a different set of questions might've meant he could be identified, and that online 
banking might've been unlocked over the phone. However, it's not my role to tell Santander 
how to set their security policies, or the questions they ask. The type of questions asked were common to those banks use when identifying consumers. I haven't seen anything 
unusual about the questions asked and am satisfied that Santander treated Mr O fairly.
Because Santander weren't happy with the answers to the security questions they explained 
the next step was for Mr O to go to a branch with identification documents. Mr O told 
Santander it wasn't possible as he had mobility issues. When Santander asked about the 
issues Mr O asked to speak to a manager. 
Mr O told us the reason he couldn't go to a branch was because of a medical issue after 
an operation. Knowing the medical condition it's clear to me that Mr O wasn't able to attend a 
branch. But Mr O also told us that Santander weren't aware of the medical issues. Had 
Santander been aware I'd expect them to act differently. I'm satisfied Santander asked 
questions to try and find out about the problem. But, without any further information they 
acted fairly and reasonably when trying to help Mr O and explaining the security procedures.
Santander explained that the other party to the account, Mrs S, could bring the documents 
into a branch on his behalf. Because of her working hours Mrs S couldn't go to a branch 
during the week, so Santander said that the branches were also open on the weekend. Soon 
after Mrs S went to the branch and I'm glad to see the online banking was unlocked.
Having looked at what happened I'm satisfied Santander followed their identification and 
security procedures and treated Mr O in a fair and reasonable way. I've seen nothing to 
suggest that Santander acted in a discriminatory way. That's not to say Mr O didn't feel that 
way, he clearly did, but from an independent point of view I haven't seen any evidence 
to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman