DRN-3579985
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc recorded a default on his 
credit file because he didnt make payments to his credit card and that it now refuses to 
remove the default.
What happened
Mr A took the credit card out in 2014. At that time he arranged for the minimum monthly 
payment to be made by direct debit from his and his wifes joint current account. He says 
that he then separated from his wife in 2016, following which he suffered some years of 
instability, including being homeless and having mental health issues.
In April 2021 Mr A checked his credit file and discovered that there was a default on the file 
for the credit card. He then discovered that the regular payments for the card had been 
coming out of his wifes account and that she had cancelled the direct debit after the May 
2020 payment as she didnt know what it was for.
As a result of the direct debit being cancelled, M&S began to write to Mr A about missed 
payments. Our investigator has previously set out the full list of correspondence and so I 
dont intend to repeat it all here. It was writing to the address it had for him until February 
2021. Then in late February 2021 it wrote to him at an address that it had traced as being 
associated with him. M&S didnt receive any responses from Mr A and his address was 
marked as gone away.
Mr A then did make contact with M&S after checking his credit file in April 2021. He rang to 
complain about the default on the credit file and that M&S should have been taking 
payments from his current account and not his wifes. He was also unhappy that M&S had 
never contacted him about the non-payments.
When talking to Mr A, M&S recorded his current address incorrectly and so he didnt initially 
receive the final response letter about his complaint that M&S sent to him on 5 May 2021. 
M&S re-sent the letter on 18 May 2021, at the same time apologizing for its earlier 
addressing error.
M&S said that it had written to Mr A on 2 November 2020 asking him to pay the arrears 
within 21 days to prevent the account from defaulting. This was followed by a final demand 
on 23 February 2021. As the balance wasnt brought up to date, a default was applied on 18 
March 2021. M&S said it understood that Mr A hadnt received any of the letters but that it 
was his responsibility to inform it of changes of address. In a further letter dated 28 May 
2021, M&S told Mr A that a default was placed on his account in line with its terms and 
conditions. It also said that, as the account was in Mr As name, it was his responsibility to 
ensure payments were maintained and that it wouldnt approach his ex-wife about payments. 
As Mr A had previously had trouble being transferred to the correct part of the service, M&S 
credited £25 to the credit card account.
Mr A then proposed to M&S that he would pay off the debt over seven months in return for it 
removing the default from the credit file. He says that M&S promised to call him back about 
this but never did. When Mr A contacted this service, he explained that the issue had 
worsened his already poor mental health.
Mr A appeared to suggest that he would be happy to settle the complaint if M&S paid him 
compensation of £75. Our investigator therefore approached M&S who agreed it would be 
willing to pay £75 for the matter to be closed. However, it then became clear that Mr A 
considered the payment to be in settlement of his complaint about poor customer service 
and he still wanted M&S to remove the default from his credit file.
Our investigator thought the default had been fairly applied to the credit file and therefore did 
not recommend that the file be amended.  Mr A disagrees with the investigators opinion and 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr A is happy with the £75 that has been offered for poor customer service, theres no 
need for me to comment further on this point as that part of the complaint has been resolved. 
Instead Ill focus on whether its fair that M&S hasnt removed the default from Mr As credit 
file.
The contact details that M&S had for Mr A were the ones that he supplied at the point of 
opening the card account in 2014. After splitting from his wife, Mr A did not contact M&S to 
update his details. Therefore, from 2016, M&S had an incorrect address for him. Mr A says 
that his mobile number had been the same throughout. However, he had only supplied a 
landline number originally. M&S had an email address for Mr A but he has confirmed that he 
stopped using that email address when he separated from his wife. Therefore M&S had no 
way of contacting Mr A and no way of knowing that any correspondence it was sending him 
wasnt reaching him. So even though Mr A wasnt aware of what was happening with the 
card, that wasnt M&Ss fault.
Mr A says that he and his wife cancelled their joint current account and set up two separate 
accounts. He says that M&S then decided to take the direct debit from his wifes new 
account rather than from his new account. He further says that his current account provider 
knew which was his wifes account and which was his and that M&S should have spoken to 
them about it.
Itd be unusual for banks to share information in the way that Mr A has suggested they could 
have here. But even if they did, M&S would have had no reason to contact Mr As current 
account provider as it would have been unaware of any changes in Mr As personal life in 
2016. The direct debit instruction remained the same as when Mr A set it up in 2014 and 
M&S did not change it at any point. 
What I think is more likely than not to have happened here is that when the current account 
provider was informed that the joint account was no longer required, it simply converted the 
joint account into Mr As wifes name (retaining the existing account number) and then set up 
a new account for Mr A. As such, the direct debit was unaffected. Whatever happened 
though, none of this was the fault of M&S. It had no awareness of what may have happened 
with the account the payments were coming from and no reason to question this. In these 
circumstances, I think it was the responsibility of Mr A to make sure any direct debits were 
amended accordingly. 
I say this because Mr A should have been aware that he had this card and the associated 
debt in his name. Ive considered what he said about his situation over the years and the separation with his wife and I realise he wasnt receiving statements or making payments 
himself. But while his wife may have been making payments, that doesnt change the fact 
that the card here was taken out in his sole name and he remains solely liable for it.
So when the direct debit was cancelled, payments to the credit card from June 2020 
onwards were not being made and M&S took appropriate steps to contact Mr A, as set out 
above. The lack of response ultimately led to M&S recording the default on Mr As credit file, 
which it was entitled to do under its terms and conditions. I appreciate that the default record 
will cause difficulty for Mr A going forward. I also understand that Mr A has gone through a 
very difficult time. However, looking at the circumstances of how the default came about, Im 
unable to conclude that M&S did anything wrong. So I wont be asking M&S to remove the 
default record from the credit file.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint. Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc 
should pay £75 compensation to Mr A. As I understand this has already been paid, I dont 
require Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman