DRN-1639737
The complaint
Ms K complains that she was mis-sold a packaged bank account called a Silver Added 
Value Account (SAVA) by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). 
What happened
Ms K took out a SAVA in June 2009 which incurred a monthly fee of £7.95. 
Ms K subsequently took out a Premier Vantage Account (PVA) but Ms K has accepted that 
her complaint about the PVA account is out of this services jurisdiction. So, this decision is 
only about the SAVA.
Ms K says she chose to take out the SAVA because she could not freely use her fee free 
account and the account card didnt work.
Our adjudicator investigated Ms Ks complaint and decided that Lloyds didnt mis-sell the 
SAVA. Ms K disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ks complaint.
Firstly, I need to consider whether Ms K was aware the SAVA was optional and whether she 
was given a clear choice in out taking the account.
I think its more likely than not that she was aware, and I say this for the following reasons.
Ms K had previously had a fee free account. So, I think she knew that fee free accounts 
were available. 
Ms K says she was having problems using her fee free account. But I think its more likely 
than not that if shed raised these with Lloyds, it would have addressed them. I also think 
that Ms K wouldve been aware that fee free accounts were available from other banks and 
financial institutions. I say this because banking is a competitive market and fee free 
accounts were widely advertised. So, if shed wanted to continue with a fee free account, I 
think its more likely than not she would have done so. 
So, I think Ms K was aware she had a choice and chose to take out the SAVA.
Lloyds advised Ms K to take out the SAVA. So, Lloyds needed to provide Ms K with enough 
information about the SAVA to make an informed choice. And in recommending the SAVA, it 
also needed to take adequate steps to ensure that the SAVA was a reasonable fit for Ms Ks 
circumstances.
The SAVA contained a range of benefits including European travel insurance, AA car 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and sentinel card protection. 
I dont know what Lloyds said or what information it gave Ms K about the SAVA, but I think it 
wouldve been of interest to her in her circumstances. Ms K says she travelled up to three 
times a year in Europe; the AA breakdown service covered Ms K whether she was driving a 
vehicle or simply a passenger; and Lloyds has provided evidence that she had a mobile 
phone. There was nothing in her circumstances that would have stopped her using any of 
the benefits and she could have closed the account at any time, but she didnt.
So, in my view the SAVA wasnt unsuitable for Ms K. And there was no information that she 
didnt receive from Lloyds that would likely have put her off taking out the SAVA. So, I dont 
think Ms K lost out when Lloyds sold her the SAVA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman