DRN-3126981
The complaint
Mr V complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled his 
claim under his home emergency insurance policy.
All references to RSA include agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr V has a Corgi HomePlan home emergency policy which is underwritten by RSA. He 
contacted RSA in May 2020 as he had a leak in his basement. An engineer attended the 
next day and suggested they carry out a camera survey to check for defects in a gully. RSA 
authorised the work and the engineer returned nine days later to do the survey. It took 
another nine days for the engineer to provide a report. RSA then got in touch with Mr V to 
say it had authorised the repair, which it said would cost about £230. But the next day it said 
it had made a mistake and the repair would cost about £3,400. As his policy only covered 
him for repairs up to £2,000, it said Mr V would need to pay the balance. RSA suggested he 
check with his home insurer as it could be something that insurer could assist him with. 
Mr V complained. He said he was shocked to be told he had to pay RSA to get the work 
done when hed been told the day before the work had been authorised. He said hed been 
constantly chasing RSA for an update over the previous weeks and, all the while, the leak 
had continued. He said this was causing distress and anxiety and he asked RSA to get the 
leak fixed without any further delay. At the same time, Mr V contacted his home insurer to 
see if it could help with the costs. The insurer asked to see the video footage so it could 
assess the damage. Mr V asked RSA to send the video footage to him but RSA sent him the 
report hed already seen, not the video images. Mr V clarified his request several times but 
RSA didnt give him the video footage.
In response to Mr Vs complaint, RSA apologised for giving him the incorrect information 
about the cost of the repair. It also recognised it hadnt kept Mr V updated and had delayed 
in taking action. It upheld the complaint and paid Mr V £200 for the inconvenience caused. It 
also said Mr V could either pay the balance and RSA would then take action to resolve the 
leak. Or he could get quotes from two third party drain companies to carry out the work  
and RSA would reimburse him up to a maximum of £2,000. 
Mr V replied the next day to say his home insurer had now done its own survey and fixed the 
leak as he couldnt wait any longer. But he remained unhappy. He said RSAs diagnosis of 
the problem had been wrong as the leak was coming from the soil pipe to the downstairs 
toilet. He said his home insurer had done the work for about £400, although Mr V had also 
paid a third party about £800 to make good the area around the soil and vent pipe. He 
wanted RSA to reimburse him for that cost, plus the £200 excess hed paid the home insurer 
and the £50 excess hed paid to RSA. And he thought RSA should pay him £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him and his family. 
RSA said it wouldnt refund the excess Mr V had paid the home insurer  or the excess hed 
paid RSA, as that had been charged correctly. But it agreed to pay Mr V the £798 hed paid 
a third party to repair the affected area. And increase the compensation from £200 to £300 
for the distress and inconvenience it had caused. Mr V remained unhappy so we 
investigated.
Our investigator thought RSA needed to do more to put things right. He thought RSA should 
refund the £50 excess Mr V had paid RSA and increase the compensation to £450. Mr V 
agreed with the investigators view but RSA didnt. It said it had charged the excess 
correctly. It said the claim was declined as it exceeded the claim limit, which is why Mr V had 
to go elsewhere. It believed it had adhered to the terms of Mr Vs policy. 
As RSA didnt accept the investigators view the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision. I came to a different conclusion from that reached by the investigator and so I 
sent a provisional decision to Mr V and RSA. Both parties accepted my findings. As such, 
my findings and decision below are substantially the same as set out in my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
Mr Vs policy covers him for the cost of repairing any leaking internal or external waste or 
water pipes. The policy doesnt include any timescales for when any necessary work will be 
completed. But, when Mr V had a leak in his basement, I think it was fair for him to expect 
RSA to resolve the issue in a reasonable length of time. Unfortunately, that didnt happen. 
RSA took nearly three weeks to investigate the matter and provide a report. It then told Mr V 
it would cost more than the £2,000 he was covered for to repair the leak. So, it suggested he 
contact his home insurer to see if it could help with the cost. But it then didnt provide the 
information his home insurer needed, which further delayed matters. Mr V decided he 
couldnt wait any longer and so he asked his home insurer to repair the leak. His home 
insurer was in a position to repair the leak almost immediately and so, in the circumstances, 
I think that was a reasonable thing to do.
RSA has recognised it didnt provide a very good service to Mr V. Its paid him £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused and reimbursed him about £800 he paid a builder to 
repair the area around the soil and vent pipe. But Mr V thinks RSA should do more to put 
things right and, having considered the evidence, I agree. Let me explain why.
Putting things right
In situations like this, well look to put people back in the position they would have been in, 
as far as possible, had things gone the way they should have done. Mr V would always have 
had to pay the £50 excess he paid RSA. His policy says the excess is charged every time an 
engineer is sent to assess the claim. Mr V agreed to that when he first contacted RSA and, 
as an engineer was called out, I dont think it would be fair to ask RSA to refund the excess 
he paid in line with the terms and conditions of his policy.
Mr V also thinks RSA should refund him the cost of the excess he paid his home insurer. 
And, in the circumstances, I think it should. Mr Vs home insurer resolved the problem 
quickly and at far less expense than the cost proposed by RSA. And, importantly, Mr V has 
said hes had no problems since then. On balance, Im satisfied RSA could have resolved the issue more quickly and at a cost less than £2,000. Had it done that, it wouldnt have 
been necessary for Mr V to approach his home insurer and pay the excess. So, I think RSA 
should refund the cost of that excess, which was £200. 
I also think RSA should pay Mr V more compensation for the trouble and upset its caused. It 
took about two months to get the issue resolved. Events of these sorts are always likely to 
cause some disruption, as well as distress and inconvenience. But I can understand why 
Mr V is so upset that resolving this matter took so much longer than it should have done. 
This was partly due to delays in getting a report from the engineer and partly due to the 
failure of RSA to provide video images, which meant it took the home insurer longer than 
necessary to inspect and do the work. In the meantime, Mr V was contacting RSA frequently 
to try to get the matter resolved. He and his family were left in a situation where they had foul 
water in their cellar. He said he was worried about the possible damage to the foundations 
and walls, and about the smell and the possible spread of disease or infection. Mr V says he 
suffers from depression and mental health issues, and the worry caused by this situation 
exacerbated his symptoms. RSA has already offered to pay Mr V £300 for the impact 
caused by its poor service but I think an amount of £450 would be more appropriate in all the 
circumstances. It can deduct £300 from that amount if it has already paid it to Mr V.
My final decision
My decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should pay Mr V a total of £650. 
£200 to reimburse him for the excess he paid his home insurer. And £450 for the trouble and 
upset caused by its poor service (less £300 if it has already paid that amount).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman