DRN-1796044
The complaint
Ms M complains because Health-on-Line Company UK Limited cancelled her private 
medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms M held a private medical insurance policy, administered by Health-on-line, since 2016.
On 21 December 2018, Health-on-line sent a letter to Ms M to say her policy would be 
automatically renewing from 25 January 2019 at an annual cost of £1,216.56. This was an 
increase from the annual premium of £890.28 which Ms M had paid the previous year. 
Ms M emailed Health-on-line on 25 January 2019 to say she was volunteering abroad and 
hadnt received any renewal email. It appears this contact from Ms M was a result of the new 
premium payment collection failing. Ms M queried how Health-on-line could have increased 
her policy premiums and tried to take a direct debit payment without consulting her. Health-
on-line responded to Ms M by email to say it had sent renewal documents to her home 
address the previous month, and these documents confirmed the new premium payable. 
On 29 January 2019, Health-on-line received a notification from Ms Ms bank to say she had 
cancelled the direct debit instruction for her policy. Health-on-line therefore cancelled the 
policy from the next payment due date, 25 February 2019. 
On 17 February 2019, Ms M emailed Health-on-line and said she didnt want the policy to be 
cancelled but wanted to pay the old premium for her cover. 
Health-on-line didnt send Ms Ms email to the correct department until April 2019. It then 
tried to contact Ms M by telephone on several occasions, but Ms M was still abroad so 
Health-on-line couldnt reach her. 
Health-on-line sent Ms M a final response letter in June 2019. This explained that renewal 
documentation had been sent, and set out an explanation of how the cost of private medical 
insurance is calculated. Health-on-line said it hadnt responded to Ms Ms email of 17 
February 2019 or raised a complaint following her email of 25 January 2019 as quickly as it 
should have, so it paid her £150 compensation. 
As Ms M remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she didnt think Health-on-line had 
done anything wrong. Ms M didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ms insurance cover lasts for one year. At the end of that year, neither Ms M nor Health-
on-line are under any obligation to renew the policy either on the same terms, or at all. 
The terms and conditions of Ms Ms policy explain that premiums for health insurance tend 
to increase every year. The policy says:
your premium will only change at renewalWe will tell you about any changes to 
your premium in plenty of time.
The policy goes on to say:
Before the end of each policy year, we will contact the policyholder to tell them the 
terms the policy will continue on if the policy is still available. We will renew the policy 
on the new terms unless the policyholder asks us to make changes or tells us they 
wish to cancel.
So, Ms Ms policy renews annually, and at renewal Health-on-line is entitled to set the 
renewal price. It does this based on factors such as the level of risk it is exposed to as a 
business, as well as Ms Ms age and claims history. 
The renewal price isnt a recommendation from Health-on-line, rather it is the price at which 
it is prepared to offer a policyholder cover for the forthcoming year. Its up to Ms M whether 
she wishes to renew the policy at the price set by Health-on-line based on her own individual 
circumstances. Its not part of Health-on-lines responsibilities to make sure the insurance 
cover is affordable for Ms M. 
Ms Ms policy sets out options about how the premium may be reduced at renewal, including 
by amending the excess, adding a 6 week option or changing the cover and asks the 
policyholder to contact it by telephone to talk about options. This can be done within 14 days 
of receiving renewal documentation. I understand Ms M may have benefitted from reductions 
to her policy premium in previous years by adjusting her policy and/or by asking Health-on-
line for a discount. But, Health-on-line is under no obligation to offer any price reduction to 
Ms M on the renewal price it has set. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Health-on-line sent renewal 
documentation to Ms M on 21 December 2018 by post. This letter set out the renewal price 
at which Health-on-line was prepared to offer Ms M cover from 25 January 2019. While I 
understand Ms M says the relative who was monitoring her mail didnt receive this 
correspondence, Health-on-lines system notes show the letter was sent. It wouldnt be fair 
to hold Health-on-line responsible for any failures in the postal system. 
I can see that all previous policy renewals were sent by Health-on-line to Ms M by post. 
Ms M has referenced receiving email communication from Health-on-line in the past. Ive 
looked at this email communication from Health-on-line and, while it was in relation to a 
claim and not a renewal, it did offer Ms M the choice to opt-in to receive updates about her 
policy online rather than by post. Theres no indication from the evidence Ive seen that 
Ms M opted in to receive her policy details online. 
Health-on-line didnt know Ms M was abroad until she contacted it on 25 January 2019, 
which was the date the policy was due to renew. If Ms M wished to receive the 2019 renewal 
correspondence by email, then it was open to her to have contacted Health-on-line to 
request this in advance.Its common practice in the insurance industry for renewal documentation to be sent by one 
method of communication only. Health-on-line had previously sent renewal documentation to 
Ms M by post and she hadnt indicated she was unhappy with this or told it shed be abroad 
at the time of the 2019 renewal. Health-on-line had also previously offered Ms M the option 
to receive her policy details online. Overall, Im satisfied Health-on-line acted fairly when 
sending renewal documentation to Ms M by post. 
Ive taken into account what Ms M has said about Health-on-line replying to her email 
correspondence of 25 January 2019 by email. Id generally expect email correspondence to 
be acknowledged by email, but for the reasons Ive explained above, this doesnt mean 
Health-on-line should have sent the renewal documents by email the previous month. 
Health-on-line received instructions from Ms Ms bank that her direct debit had been 
cancelled on 29 January 2019, after the payment on 25 January 2019 was missed. 
The terms and conditions of Ms Ms policy say, if you miss a payment, we will cancel your 
policy.
Health-on-line wrote to Ms M on 29 January 2019 to say she would need to make a payment 
within the next 45 days, or the cover would end on 25 February 2019. I have taken account 
of what Ms M has said about the 45 day period expiring in March 2019 but, under the terms 
and conditions of her policy, Im satisfied Health-on-line was entitled to cancel the cover from 
25 February 2019.
While I accept that Ms Ms email of 17 February 2019 said she didnt want to cancel the 
policy, Ms M told Health-on-line in this email that she wanted to continue with the policy for 
the old premium payable. Ms M says this email was an attempt to engage with the renewal 
process, but these werent the terms under which Health-on-line had offered renewal and 
Health-on-line was under no obligation to agree to this, or to enter into correspondence with 
Ms M about renewal prices at this point. Health-on-line had already told Ms M that the 
premium for her renewal had been set and, while Ive considered Ms Ms reasons for doing 
what she did, she had already cancelled the direct debit instruction which indicated to 
Health-on-line that she no longer wanted the policy.
I understand Ms Ms new insurance cover has more restrictive terms, but the original policy 
was cancelled because Ms M cancelled the direct debit rather than as a result of any errors 
on the part of Health-on-line. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Health-on-
line to reinstate Ms Ms policy. 
However, Ms M didnt receive a response to her email of 17 February 2019 until April 2019. 
This isnt the level of customer service Id expect to see from a business when dealing with a 
query about an insurance policy and Health-on-line has acknowledged this. In addition, 
when Ms Ms email was sent internally to the correct department within Health-on-line in 
April 2019, Health-on-line tried to contact Ms M by telephone on a number of occasions 
despite being aware she was abroad. In these circumstances, I think it would have been 
reasonable for Health-on-line to also have emailed Ms M. 
So, I think Health-on-line made some errors when dealing with Ms Ms correspondence. But 
I think the compensation of £150 which it has paid to Ms M for the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced as a result is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ms M had the benefit of cover while her previous annual insurance policies were in force, 
and the underwriter of the policy covered the risk of any potential or actual claims made 
during that time, so there arent any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask 
Health-on-line to refund the policy premiums Ms M paid.  
Im sorry to disappoint Ms M but I wont be asking Health-on-line to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman