DRN-2519425
The complaint
Mr A complains that Rooftop Mortgages Limited wont capitalise the arrears on his mortgage
account.
What happened
Mr A held an interest only mortgage with another lender in October 2006. In March 
2008 arrears started to accrue on the account.
A Suspended Possession Order (SPO) was set in March 2009 to clear the arrears within 
the remaining term. At this time the arrears balance was in excess of £14,000.
Rooftop acquired the account in December 2016. At the time of transfer the arrears 
balance was around £11,000.
In 2019 Mr A asked Rooftop to capitalise the arrears on the basis that he had maintained 
his payments for 10 years. He was told that for this to be agreed, hed need to change 
from an interest only mortgage to a repayment mortgage.
Mr A raised a complaint with Rooftop in May 2019. Rooftop responded in June 2019. It 
apologised for incorrectly telling Mr A that he needed to switch to a repayment mortgage, 
and it confirmed that in order to consider capitalisation, a full financial review was needed 
including a completed income and expenditure (I&E) form along with supporting 
documents.
Mr A contacted Rooftop again in October 2019. He was told that an I&E would normally 
be required but due to his payment history over the last 10 years his query was instead 
referred to head office for immediate approval. Rooftops head office confirmed that it 
would in fact require an I&E assessment and supporting documents to consider the 
proposal.
Mr A raised another complaint in November 2019. He was unhappy that Rooftop was 
asking for an I&E assessment to demonstrate affordability even though he had already 
demonstrated this by maintaining the payments under the SPO for so long.
In Rooftops response to Mr As complaint it explained why it did not feel capitalisation of 
arrears was in his best interest. It apologised for not explaining this sooner and paid Mr A
£100 compensation for the error.
Unhappy with Rooftops response, Mr A brought his complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into things and didnt uphold this complaint. He felt that it was fair for 
Rooftop to refuse the option of capitalisation without an up to date assessment of Mr As 
financial situation.
Mr A disagreed. He said that the investigators opinion doesnt explain why an I&E 
assessment is required for reasons other than assessing affordability. Mr A feels his 
payment history over the period of the SPO demonstrates this already and the refusal 
to capitalise the arrears is hindering him.
Our investigator considered Mr As comments but explained why his opinion remained 
unchanged. Because an agreement hadnt been reached, this matter was then passed 
to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision on the matter and an extract of my 
provisional findings is below.
...Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our investigator looked into this complaint, he considered whether Rooftop was 
acting fairly by asking Mr A to complete an I&E before agreeing to consider 
capitalisation of arrears. But this was Rooftops position at the time of its first final 
response letter in
June 2019. Things have moved on since then.
Following a further review of Mr As account, Rooftops position has changed. In 
December 2019 it wrote to Mr A to say that it would not consider capitalisation of 
arrears in his circumstances because this option is not in his best interests.
Rooftop has accepted that it should have told Mr A this sooner and it paid him £100 for 
getting things wrong. Whilst out investigator felt the award for trouble and upset was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances, he has not explained whether Rooftops decision 
to not capitalise the arrears (with or without a full financial review) is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. I will address this in my provisional decision.
The rules state that a lender should not agree to capitalise the arrears unless there 
are no other options realistically available to assist the customer.
Mr A is currently in a payment arrangement. Under the conditions of the SPO hes been 
maintaining his CMP plus an additional £60 to reduce his arrears since 2009. As a 
result, his arrears have reduced by around £6,000. His arrears balance is currently less 
than £8,000.
Capitalisation is where the arrears are added to the balance of the mortgage and the 
payments recalculated. But Mr A has an interest only mortgage. If he were to add the 
arrears balance to the mortgage, the balance would go up. But any payments would 
only cover the interest on the increased balance. The capital balance of the mortgage 
would not go down. And Mr A would be left with a higher balance to repay at the end of 
the mortgage term.
Under the current payment arrangement, the payments Mr A makes go towards 
reducing the arrears balance. If he carries on making those payments, he will reduce 
the arrears balance
 and he will pay less in interest than if he capitalises the arrears and remains on 
interest only. So, in the circumstances I dont think Rooftop has acted unreasonably 
by refusing to capitalise the whole arrears balance.
Rooftop has confirmed that by maintaining the payments under the SPO, Mr A will 
clear his arrears by the end of the term and therefore he would only owe the amount 
originally advanced to him.
Whilst capitalising the whole arrears balance is not in Mr As best interests, there are 
other options available. Rooftop should engage with Mr A if he wants. Following Rooftops most recent response, Mr A has asked to pay a lump sum of £2,500 towards 
the arrears and capitalise the remaining balance. Rooftop should look to see if there is 
anything it could potentially offer Mr A depending on his circumstances. It is reasonable 
for Rooftop to ask for an I&E to ensure any arrangement is affordable for Mr A, 
otherwise it might be lending irresponsibly and the account may fall straight back into 
arrears.
Ive considered all the reasons Mr A has provided for wanting to capitalise the arrears, 
but when taking into account the circumstances of his mortgage I dont think Rooftop 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably by not agreeing to this. Whilst straight capitalisation 
is not the suitable option here  Rooftop should consider other options or a 
combination of things that would work in Mr As interests.
Because I dont think Rooftop has wrongly refused to capitalise the arrears, I wont be 
telling it to agree this. Whilst I appreciate it previously provided Mr A with the wrong 
information, I cant say that hes been impacted financially as a result as the arrears 
balance would always remain payable. So, I think the £100 compensation paid is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances...
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Rooftop agreed, Mr A didnt. In summary 
he said:
responsible lending should include allowing a borrower to make lower monthly 
payments and capitalising the arrears reduces the risk of further arrears;
if the arrears are capitalised, his CMP will be less than the payments hes currently 
making under the current PA. An I&E should not be necessary to prove he can 
maintain lower payments to those hes made over the last 10 years;
capitalisation, as a result of a Covid payment deferral was agreed without the need 
for an I&E;
capitalising the arrears results in less interest, fees and charges and positively impact 
his credit report; and
the benefits of capitalising the arrears outweigh the fact that his overall mortgage 
balance will increase by around £8,000 which makes no difference to the repayment 
of the debt when the house is sold due to the equity in the property. He also states 
that regardless of how the arrears are presented the same balance remains owing 
during and the additional interest charges will add to the total debt.
I will now issue my final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my 
decision, including those in response to the provisional decision. 
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. Ill now address the points Mr A has raised in response to the 
provisional decision.
There are several concessions available to support customers who are in financial difficulties 
or in arrears as a result of previous and/or current financial difficulties.In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt think it was unreasonable for Rooftop to 
refuse Mr As request to capitalise the arrears. The rules state that a lender should only 
agree to capitalise arrears if there are no other options realistically available to assist the 
customer. There is a current agreement in place that is helping Mr A to reduce his arrears 
balance within the term of the mortgage. It would be reasonable for Rooftop to engage with 
Mr A to see if there is anything it could potentially offer him depending on his circumstances. 
To decide whats appropriate for Mr A will depend on his individual circumstances. To find 
out what would be helpful to Mr A, Rooftop will need to ask him questions about his 
circumstances, including an assessment of his I&E as his circumstances may have changed 
since the last time this was carried out. Lenders should review any concessions periodically, 
on an ongoing basis to make sure that any concessions continue to be appropriate, or if 
there is anything else the lender could or should do. That will usually be by completing a new 
I&E. 
Unless Mr A is willing to provide the necessary information to complete an I&E assessment, I 
dont think its unreasonable that Rooftop is not able to consider any alternative options. 
Ive considered all the reasons why Mr A says capitalising his arrears will improve his 
financial situation. He says it will result in less interest, fees and charges and improved credit 
rating if approved.
The annual statement provided by Mr A shows that in September 2020 and October 2020 he 
didnt make his usual payments towards his arrears. A Covid payment deferral was also 
agreed from June 2020 to August 2020. This demonstrates a likely change in circumstances. 
As a result of the missed payments under the terms of the SPO, two arrears management 
fees of £50 were charged. Ive seen no other evidence of fees and charges being applied 
when the terms of the were SPO maintained. 
Mr A questions why capitalisation, as a result of the Covid payment deferral was agreed 
without the need for an I&E. In light of the pandemic, different rules were brought in by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) that allowed lenders to offer payment deferrals without 
the usual checks. But once a borrower has had a three-month payment deferral, then it is 
reasonable  in line with the FCAs guidance (as things stand) to make an individual 
assessment of whether any further concessions are appropriate. The specific guidance 
allowed businesses to capitalise missed payments due to a payment deferral as a default 
position. But the business could still consider other options if the consumer didnt want this. 
The Covid specific guidance doesnt create any precedent that means the lender must 
approve any other concessions without an I&E. Rather it reflects the measures put in place 
to deal with borrowers whose finances were affected because of the pandemic.
Turning to Mr As point about capitalisation leading to less interest being charged. As pointed 
out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied capitalising the arrears will result in more interest 
being charged  as £8,000 will be added to the balance and that amount will not reduce  
compared with payments being made to reduce the capital as things stand.
I agree that the overall outstanding balance currently remains the same regardless of 
whether the arrears are capitalised or not. But as Mr A was, for most of the time, making 
payments in line with the SPO, he was reducing his arrears balance. And, by maintaining the 
payments, he would clear the arrears balance in full before the term end. This would not be 
the case if the arrears were capitalised without the ability to make overpayments, for reasons 
Ive previously explained.  Rooftop has made the decision not to allow capitalisation without an I&E and based on what 
it knew about Mr As circumstances. It should keep all options open if Mr A does provide an 
I&E and his circumstances have changed. That is not to say that it must capitalise the 
arrears  only that it must consider whether that option (on its own) or alongside other 
concessions would be right for Mr A.
I appreciate Mr As credit file might be improved if the arrears were added to the balance of 
the mortgage and he maintained payments. But that is not the only consideration for 
Rooftop. I dont consider that it can decide whether a concession is appropriate for Mr A 
unless he completes an I&E. So, the fact capitalisation might improve Mr As credit file is not 
enough by itself to say that Rooftop must capitalise the arrears.
In summary, when considering everything, I dont think Rooftop has unfairly refused Mr As 
request to capitalise his arrears. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman