DRN-3043876
The complaint
Mr C complains about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) under the home emergency cover 
provided as part of a packaged bank account. Mr C is unhappy that IPA declined his claim in 
respect of a problem with his central heating.
This decision only relates to the home emergency cover from IPA as part of the packaged 
bank account, it doesnt cover the bank account or the bank that provided it to Mr C, which 
was the subject of a separate complaint to this service by Mr C.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr C returned home to find that he couldnt turn on his central heating. Mr 
C contacted IPA, who said they would try to get an engineer to visit on the same day. 
However, the first contractor they engaged didnt attend on the day, but a second contractor 
did send an engineer the following day. 
Mr C said that the engineer told him that his boiler needed a gasket replacing, but that he 
didnt have the necessary parts. In his subsequent job card, the engineer noted that the 
boiler was sparking but not igniting the gas. The card also stated that the boiler had never 
been stripped down and serviced, recommending a full strip down and service of the boiler 
heat exchanger. IPA said that unless Mr C could provide a boiler service record, they 
wouldnt cover the repair as the issue was the result of a lack of maintenance, an exclusion 
under the policy. Mr C then engaged an engineer from the boiler manufacturer, who 
inspected the boiler and diagnosed a different fault. The engineer fixed the problem.
Unhappy at having his claim declined and being without heating or hot water until he was 
able to engage his own engineer to resolve the issue, Mr C complained to IPA.
IPA partially upheld Mr Cs complaint. In their final response letter, they confirmed their 
decision not to cover Mr Cs claim as the boiler issue was due to a lack of maintenance. IPA 
added that they would require an independent report or a boiler service report to review their 
decision to decline Mr Cs claim. But IPA acknowledged Mr C had to contact them several 
times to find out what was happening. They offered Mr C £50 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr C then complained to this service. He was unhappy at the service hed received from IPA, 
including that they hadnt contacted him when they said they would. He didnt feel that the 
IPA engineer had properly understood the problem with the boiler, so hed had to get an 
engineer from the manufacturer to repair the boiler (for a different fault to that diagnosed by 
the IPA engineer). Mr C said that as a result he was left without heating or hot water for 20 
days in winter, making the property uninhabitable.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. He concluded IPA hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining the claim because of a lack of maintenance to the boiler. He also thought IPA acted 
reasonably in sending an engineer the day after Mr C reported the problem and telling him 
the same day that they wouldnt be accepting his claim, so IPA werent responsible for Mr C 
being without heating or hot water. The investigator also thought IPAs offer of £50 
compensation was fair.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He remained unhappy that IPAs engineer hadnt solved the issue with his boiler - 
had he been familiar with his make of boiler he would have done so. Mr C also thought the 
boiler fault wasnt related to whether his boiler had been serviced and that the policy terms 
and conditions (used to decline his claim) were unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether IPA has acted fairly towards Mr C.
The main elements of Mr Cs complaint are that IPA didnt provide the service to him they 
should have done and didnt properly diagnose the boiler issue. Mr C is also unhappy at 
IPAs decline of his claim on the grounds of a policy exclusion for lack of maintenance.
In considering the first point, its important to note that we arent heating engineers, so we 
rely on reports and other evidence from any engineers or other experts. Ive seen the IPA 
engineer job card, which refers to the recommendation of a strip down and service. Mr C 
says he was told that a gasket needed replacing, but that the engineer didnt have the part. I 
would expect the IPA engineer to have given his professional opinion on the issue and what 
he recommended. Ive also seen evidence of the contractor firm being professionally 
registered, so I would expect their engineers to be appropriately qualified. 
While Mr Cs engineer diagnosed a different issue and got the boiler working, it doesnt 
include a view on what the cause of the issue was (whether it was due to a lack of 
maintenance or some other cause). And while I understand Mr Cs view that his own 
engineers diagnosis indicates IPAs engineer should have been able to fix the boiler, I cant 
conclude that this means the IPA engineer wasnt qualified for the role.
On the second point, the decline of the claim, IPA referred to a lack of maintenance as the 
reason for decline of the claim.  Having read the terms and conditions of the home 
emergency section of the policy carefully, I cant see any specific reference to [lack of] 
maintenance as an exclusion. However, there is reference under a heading General 
conditions applying to Your policy that states:
You must keep all buildings and all the property covered in good condition and 
repair.
While this doesnt specifically refer to maintenance, I dont think its unreasonable to interpret 
it to include keeping something properly maintained, such as a boiler.
IPA also said that if Mr C was able to provide an independent report or boiler service report, 
they would review their decision. On the first of these points, Mr C told us that, having 
contacted the manufacturer whose engineer was engaged by Mr C, they werent able to 
provide a clear cause of the boiler fault (whether it was caused by lack of maintenance of 
other issue).
 
On the second point, Ive not seen any evidence about Mr Cs boiler being serviced, though 
the report from IPAs engineer states that a full strip down service had never been carried 
out. Ive noted what Mr C told us about the fault not being related to whether the boiler had been serviced. However, I dont think it was unreasonable for IPA to have asked for an 
independent report or boiler service record for them to review their decision to decline Mr Cs 
claim. Boiler manufacturers (including the manufacturer of Mr Cs boiler) recommend regular 
inspection and servicing (maintenance) to ensure the safe and efficient operation of boilers.
 
Taking all these factors into account, Ive concluded that I dont think it was unreasonable for 
IPA to decline Mr Cs claim.
On the question of the level of service provided to Mr C by IPA, Ive noted that while the first 
engineer didnt attend as scheduled, the second attended the following day. While unable to 
fix the problem, I dont think this timescale was unreasonable, at what was likely to have 
been a busier time of year. IPA recognised Mr C had to contact them several times to find 
out what was happening and offered £50 in compensation. Mr C also told us that IPA 
reimbursed him for portable heating (£36.99) that he bought. In the circumstances, given my 
conclusion about their decline of his claim not being unreasonable, I think this is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman