DRN-3275286
The complaint
C, a limited company complains that First Data Europe Limited trading as First Data 
Merchant Solutions didnt do enough to defend chargeback claims.
What happened
C has a merchant services agreement with First Data. C explains that it sold an item of 
clothing and its customer paid a deposit by card of £697.50 and then the balance of £697.50 
on 18 June 2020 before collection. The customer then said that she wasnt happy with the fit 
of the item and its condition as it was stained. C disputed this and offered to alter it and get it 
professionally cleaned saying that it left its showroom in perfect condition. C received 
chargeback requests for the two payments and says it didnt know the reasons for this and 
that First Data hadnt defended them. It has lost this money.
First Data said that its actions were governed by the rules of the relevant chargeback 
scheme. It said that it wrote to advise of the chargeback and that although we attempted to 
defend the above mentioned Chargebacks this Schemes advised that evidence supplied 
was insufficient, sadly we are unable to overturn this decision and are unable to defend 
these further. First Data apologised for the quality of service it provided as C had tried to 
contact it on a number of occasions about the outcome. It paid C £75 in compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that C was sent 
letters dated 24 September 2020 about the chargeback of each payment. These said that 
the chargeback reason was that the item was not as described. C was allowed 10 days to 
provide its full comments regarding this transaction. C said it didnt receive the letters until 
30 September 2020 and that the details of the dispute werent provided. That day it sent an 
email disputing the chargeback and copies of emails with its customer about the dispute. 
The chargeback rules arent set by First Data and the timescales were strict. He couldnt 
reasonably hold First Data responsible for problems with the postal service. First Data hadnt 
attached the cardholders comments and although that wasnt ideal C reasonably knew the 
nature of the dispute. He quoted relevant parts of First Datas operating guide: 
When a chargeback is received, we will debit the disputed amount from your
account and contact you with details of the card transaction together with the 
information/documentation we require from you and the deadline by which we require
it.
And
If the information provided is sufficient to warrant a reversal of the chargeback and is within 
the applicable timescale, we will attempt to defend the chargeback. However, reversal is 
contingent upon acceptance by the card issuer under the applicable card schemes 
guidelines.
He noted that on 28 October 2020 C had provided a copy of the signed order and its terms 
and conditions. But this was outside the deadline it had reasonably been given. He thought 
that the compensation for poor service was fair. He had since asked First Data to clarify 
exactly what it had sent to defend the chargeback but hadnt received a response. But he 
didnt think it had acted outside its agreement when deciding how to defend the claim in line 
with the conditions quoted above.
C didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. The issue was whether First Data 
had handled its defence appropriately if at all. It was perplexing that it could ignore requests 
from this service. C had wanted a copy of what its customer had said about the chargeback. 
It said that First Data delayed this deliberately to avoid this claim. It said that much of what 
the cardholder put forward was new to it and it would have given a different response. C had 
also tried to contact First Data a number of times without success.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has correctly said that the rules of the chargeback scheme arent set by 
First Data and there are strict timescales in making and then responding to a chargeback. 
The decision about a chargeback is made by the card issuer.
Im afraid I dont agree with C that it didnt reasonably know the basis for the dispute. I can 
see from the emails it had with its customer that on 30 July 2020 it was told that as it was 
unwilling to refund the item this would be pursued with the cardholders provider. When it 
wrote to First Data on 30 September 2020 C said that  We are aware of the dispute and do 
not believe there are any grounds to consider a chargeback request. And when it had 
received details of the claim on 27 October 2020 it wrote to First Data the next day to say 
that There is little that we can add that we have not already said in the email 
correspondence shown below. It then attached a copy of the signed order and Terms and 
conditions which showed the measurements agreed for the item. 
In an email to this service of 24 January 2022 C additionally said that had it had the 
opportunity to provide a defence it would also have included an  acceptance signature by 
the claimants representative on collecting the goods and signed testimony by members of 
staff as to the condition and sizing of the goods and testimony from our supplier to the effect 
that they had provided full Quality Controlled goods as per our order for this customer.
I appreciate that C didnt receive a copy of the claim attached to the letters. And that there 
was a limited time to respond. But it was a matter for it to decide on how to defend the 
dispute based on any information it had and the request. And Im unclear why if it had 
evidence that the item supplied was as agreed and was signed for when collected it wouldnt 
provide this to support the claim. First Data wouldnt know what C had and it wasnt really up 
to it to tell C what to submit. I know C is unhappy that the claim went against it when its 
customer it says still had the item and didnt support her claim with evidence. But as Ive said 
the decision about the outcome was made by the card issuer. And although First Data didnt 
respond further to our investigator it did set out as I quoted above in its final response that 
the defence was considered insufficient.
I understand Cs position that it has lost money and doesnt believe it failed to meet its 
obligations. Im looking here at how the chargebacks were dealt with and not its direct issue 
with its customer. Having considered whats been provided Im not persuaded that the 
actions of First Data were outside the terms of its agreement with C and that it has acted 
unreasonably in holding C liable for the chargeback amounts. So, I wont be asking it to do 
anything more than it has already to reflect the service issues in paying C £75.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman