DRN-3830389
The complaint
Ms C and Mr G complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent the loss they
suffered when they sent money to an HSBC account as the result of a scam.
Ms C and Mr G have been helped with their complaint by a representative, Miss G. And
whilst the loss comes from a joint account belonging to Ms C and Mr G, for ease of reading,
Ill mostly just refer to Mr G.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In October 2020 Mr G sent a payment from his own bank which Ill refer to as S for the
equivalent amount in Euros of £285,000. At the time he believed this to be a payment to a
firm of solicitors in the UK to assist his daughter with the purchase of a property. The
payment arrived in an account held with HSBC.
Mr G later learned that a scammer had been emailing his daughter impersonating the
solicitor. So when shed shared the account details to pay, these were those provided by the
scammer and not the genuine solicitor.
As soon as Mr G became aware that the wrong account had been paid, he reported this to
the relevant authorities including S and directly to HSBC. Ultimately HSBC said that some
funds had been secured.
Mr G complained to HSBC that theyd not done enough to prevent his loss. HSBC didnt
agree they were liable, and the matter was considered by one of our Investigators. He
concluded that HSBC could have prevented the loss and should provide a full refund plus
8% interest. Mr G accepted this outcome, but HSBC didnt.
In the meantime, following the provision of an indemnity from S, HSBC returned around
£188,000 to S in January 2023. HSBC asked that an Ombudsman review the complaint. In 
February 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im intending to reach a 
different outcome to that of our Investigator. So, Im issuing this provisional decision to give 
everyone a further opportunity to comment before finalising my decision.
Im satisfied that HSBC correctly followed their account opening process for the account that
received money from Mr G. I dont think there was anything at that stage that would have
indicated that the account might later go on to be used in connection with a fraud or scam.
So, I dont think HSBC could have prevented Mr Gs loss in relation to the opening of the
account.
In his submissions Mr G has suggested there was a delay in his payment crediting the
recipient account as hed entered an incorrect IBAN number. He thinks this means HSBC
could have recovered all his money as soon after providing the correct IBAN, the scam came
to light and a recall request was sent. But this isnt supported by the evidence from HSBC
which shows his payment arrived in their customers account on 2 November 2020. What I
think Mr G may be referring to is the contact he had with S after HSBC had been in touch
seeking to confirm if the payment was genuine (after theyd blocked the account). I
understand Mr G initially confirmed that it was genuine, before shortly afterwards becoming
aware of the scam when his daughter informed him the solicitors emails had been
compromised. But these events all took place after the account had already been blocked.
In either case, HSBC had acted pro-actively and blocked the account in question on
3 November 2020. This resulted in the recovery of £188,639.77. Im satisfied Mr G hasnt
recovered any funds from his bank or any other party. This means Mr Gs outstanding loss is
£96,360.23. Ive carefully considered the point at which HSBC intervened in the account and
I think they ought to have done so sooner.
Soon after the arrival of Mr Gs funds in the account, a series of outgoing payments began.
Several of these outgoing payments appear to have gone to new payees. I think HSBC
ought to have intervened in the fifth outgoing payment. This instruction from their customer
meant that nearly £50,000 had been requested to be sent in around three hours. I would
have expected HSBC to have held this fifth payment and not allowed further payments /
withdrawals due to concerns about the way in which the account was being used.
HSBC have said that they believe had they acted earlier, their customer would have
responded. They say this as there still would have been significant funds available with an
obvious incentive for their customer to do so. They also say that a scammer sophisticated 
enough to orchestrate an email interception scam on a firm of solicitors, would likely have 
been able to provide convincing fabricated proof of entitlement to the funds.
Ive thought about what HSBC have said but I dont agree. Ultimately, we cant ever really
know what wouldve happened, so I need to decide what I think is most likely based on the
evidence available to me. The strongest evidence I have is what did happen when the
account was blocked  which is that no contact was received from their customer despite
HSBC reaching out to them directly. At that point there was still a sizeable sum in the
account, which I think would have provided ample motivation for HSBCs customer to
provide an explanation, if they were going to, to enable them to access any remaining funds.
So, on balance. I cant say this would have played out differently had a larger amount been
available if the account had been blocked sooner.
Further to this, when HSBC received the response from S to say that the payment was
genuine (prior to this being corrected), there is no evidence that they released the blocks on
the account. Rather the evidence supports that the remaining funds were moved to a holding
account on 12 November 2020. So I dont think whatever concerns HSBC had at the time
would have been different.
The first four payments that left the account totalled £39,936. And I dont think HSBC
reasonably ought to have stopped these. So I dont think the loss of that amount was
preventable by HSBC. But I do think a further £56,424.23 could have been stopped from
leaving the account, beyond the £188,639.77 which was recovered and eventually returned.
So I intend to direct that this is what should be paid to Mr G.
Mr G has made much of the swift messages between the banks. But all this took place after
HSBC had already blocked the beneficiary account. So nothing that happened at that time
would have impacted what remained to be recovered from the account.HSBC have argued that Mr G should share some responsibility for his own loss due to
contributory negligence. Ive considered this, but I dont agree. As Ive mentioned above, the
scammer was in email contact with Mr Gs daughter and was impersonating her solicitor. I
dont think it can be said that Mr G was negligent when instructing the payment following his
reliance on the account details his daughter shared with him. There is also no evidence that
S provided a warning of the possibility of a scam which he ignored. So, Im not currently
persuaded there is a reasonable basis for making a reduction in award due to contributory
negligence in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has shared that S has imposed many terms on him for them providing an indemnity in
relation to the £188,639.77 that has now been returned. The actions and decisions of S
arent something I can comment on. I can only look at the actions of HSBC. I accept there
could have perhaps been clearer communication in this regard. But ultimately, I dont think
HSBC requiring an indemnity prior to returning such a significant amount of money to an
international bank was unfair, unreasonable or a departure from standard industry practice.
So, I dont think they need to pay interest in relation to the returned funds. I understand that
S had previously provided an indemnity for a proportion of the recovered funds. But I dont
think HSBCs insistence on one indemnity was unfair or unreasonable. I understand
Mr Gs dissatisfaction with the terms imposed on him by S, but that isnt something HSBC
are responsible for. And HSBC returned the funds within a reasonable time following receipt
of an indemnity for the full amount.
In relation to the further £56,424.23 that I intend to direct HSBC to pay, I also dont think an
interest award would be appropriate in these circumstances. I aim to put Mr G back in the
position he would have been in, but for HSBCs failure (to intervene sooner). If HSBC had
acted as I think they should have done, they would have recovered an additional
£56,424.23. But the issue surrounding the indemnity would most likely have been
unchanged. And whilst the amount involved would have obviously differed, Im not
persuaded the date upon which it was returned would have changed. And as I understand
the returned funds were sent around and received on 11 January 2023, I think HSBC should
return an equivalent amount of Euros, had the further £56,424.23 been returned on that
date, using the exchange rate at the time.
Ive also considered the overall service provided by HSBC, particularly in relation to their
communication with S. But Im not persuaded that the poor service that was provided
impacted Mr G to the extent that a compensation award should be made.
Mr G responded with further comments which Ill address below. HSBC initially asked for an 
extension of the deadline to respond, but ultimately didnt provide any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G said he believes his payment arrived with HSBC bank but initially wasnt credited to the 
account in question. He points out the questions HSBC asked S on 5 November 2020 to  
support this. He also questions whether the fraudsters withdrew any funds prior to 
9 November 2020 and shared emails from them in which they claimed the funds hadnt 
arrived. 
Ive considered this, but Im more persuaded by the evidence HSBC have provided. 
Specifically, the account statements which show the payment crediting the recipient account on 2 November 2020. They also show multiple payments leaving that account until HSBC 
blocked it on 3 November 2020. As I mentioned in my provisional decision, the further 
questions and interaction was likely due to HSBCs concerns about the payment. But none 
of that impacted what was available for recovery, as by that point, the account had already 
been blocked. 
Mr G also says that the message from HSBC to S which provided details of the required 
indemnity was rather vague. And that HSBC didnt respond to requests for clarification from 
S. Im satisfied that HSBC made sufficiently clear what they required as an indemnity. Their 
message included where it should be sent along with the wording to be used. So, I dont 
agree that this wasnt made clear to S. And HSBC arent responsible for what S did with that 
information. 
Mr G says that once a decision is issued, the dispute is resolved. Because of that hes asked 
that I direct HSBC to notify S that the dispute has been closed and so the funds they hold in 
a blocked account can become available to them immediately. I cant become involved in or 
comment on the details of any arrangement between S and Mr G. So Im not going to direct 
HSBC to do more than I proposed in my provisional decision and I cant make a direction to 
S. If he thinks it will be of assistance, Mr G can share a copy of my decision with S, to 
indicate that the complaint with our service has concluded.
As HSBC didnt respond and Mr Gs further submissions didnt change my mind as to the 
outcome of this complaint, Im not going to deviate from the outcome explained in my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mr G and Ms C the equivalent amount of Euros that they 
would have received had £56,424.23 been returned to them on the date the
£188,639.77 was sent, using the exchange rate in place on that date.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman