DRN-2620232
The complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited failed to provide him with adequate 
support after he had a car accident.
What happened
Mr S had a motor insurance policy with Admiral. He was involved in a car accident on a busy 
road in February 2020. His sister and mother were also in the car and suffered minor 
injuries. Police were quickly on the scene to help Mr S and his family, and to manage traffic. 
Mr S called Admiral from the accident site. 
During the call Mr S explained that the car was in a dangerous location and needed to be 
recovered urgently. A police officer also spoke to Admirals call handler to confirm the 
accident location and the need for Mr Ss car to be recovered as soon as possible.
The call handler told Mr S that, under the policy terms, he could arrange for Mr Ss car to be 
taken to a safe location but not to his home, approximately 100 miles away. After a short 
discussion, the call handler advised Mr S to ask a third party recovery company (referred to 
here as Y) to take Mr S, his family, and the car home. Mr S did this. 
On reflection, Mr S was unhappy that:
Admirals call handler focused more on his travel home rather than recovering the car 
from the accident site.
Admirals call handler didnt recognise the urgency of the situation or that damage to 
the car posed a danger to other traffic.
Admiral left Mr S to arrange for the cars recovery by Y.
Admiral didnt contact him after he got home to check that he and his family were ok.
Mr S believes Admiral failed in its duties under his insurance policy. He says its response 
caused him and his family serious distress and inconvenience. He wants Admiral to 
compensate him for this.
Admiral reviewed its handling of Mr Ss accident. It accepted that there was a lack of 
knowledge from its call handler, who was new to the role. It acknowledged Mr Ss distress 
and vulnerability after the accident and agreed that it should have done more to help him 
during the initial call. It offered him £150 to apologise for its poor service and support. Mr S 
didnt think this offer reflected the severity of the situation, so he complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She agreed that 
Admiral failed to offer the service and support it should have done under Mr Ss policy. She 
didnt think its offer was enough to compensate Mr S for the distress caused by its poor 
service. She recommended it increase this to £250.
Admiral accepted our investigators recommendation. Mr S didnt, so the case was passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, its clear from listening to Mr Ss phone call to Admiral that this was a serious accident 
and a very stressful situation for him. Im sorry he went through that and Im relieved he and 
his family werent seriously injured.
Second, Mr S also complained to us about Admirals handling of his related insurance claim. 
Thats been dealt with separately so Im not going to cover that again here. This decision 
only covers Admirals immediate response to Mr Ss accident.
Page 2 of Mr Ss policy (Damage Repair Process) covers what should happen following an 
accident:
we will arrange for our approved nationwide Vehicle Recovery Operator to: 
collect your vehicle from the accident site and deliver it as instructed by us to an 
Approved Repairer, your home or a safe place of storage within a 30 mile radius
move you and your passengers away from the accident site if its not safe to the 
nearest point of local amenity.
Admiral didnt do this. Its clear from listening to the call when Mr S reported the accident that 
its call handler dealt with the situation very poorly. In my opinion, he didnt fully understand 
what Mr S and the police officer were telling him or what he needed to do. This meant he 
wrongly advised Mr S to arrange for his car to be recovered by Y.
I think Admiral accepted this. Its letters on 21 and 26 February 2020 acknowledged that its 
call handler didnt follow the correct procedure or explain clearly what Admiral would do. It 
recognised that it hadnt provided Mr S with adequate help or support: we have let you and 
your passengers down as your insurance company in your time of need. I agree with all of 
this.
I dont think Admiral needed to check on Mr S and his family after Mr S had agreed to 
contact Y. It isnt mentioned in his policy and Admiral has said its not something they would 
normally do. From Admirals perspective, it understood that Y was going to get Mr S home 
and he would call in the next day or two to discuss his claim. And while Mr S believes he told 
Admiral about being unable to close the car door and the danger this caused, Im satisfied 
that this wasnt discussed during the call immediately after the accident. So I dont agree 
with Mr S on those points.
However, I agree with him that Admirals compensation offer of £150 doesnt reflect the 
seriousness of its failings or the distress it caused Mr S at a very stressful time. Ive 
considered the level of award made by this service in similar circumstances. I understand 
how strongly Mr S feels about this, but Im satisfied that our investigators recommendation 
of £250 is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr S £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman