DRN-2040779
The complaint
Mrs C complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims management 
company.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mrs C took out in 1996 
during a phone call. The PPI covered Mrs C if she couldnt work because of an accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
It's been agreed that AXA should take responsibility for the complaint. To keep things 
simple, I'll refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that AXA 
hadnt done enough to bring the pre-existing medical condition terms to Mrs Cs attention. 
And that, if it had done, she wouldnt have taken the policy.
AXA didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
The two medical conditions Mrs C says she suffered from are usually managed when 
treated with medication and would not affect her lifestyle.
Theres nothing to suggest that the conditions were severe or had an impact on Mrs Cs 
prolonged ability to work. Its unlikely she thought she would have needed to make a 
claim for these conditions.
Mrs C would still have been able to claim for other medical conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA didnt recommend the policy to Mrs C, so it didnt have to make sure it was suitable for 
her. But it did have to provide her with information which was clear, fair and not misleading 
so that she could make an informed choice about the insurance she was buying.
The terms of the policy said it would not pay any benefit for a claim:
that is the result of
Any sickness, disease, condition or injury which you knew about or ought to have known 
about or which you asked about or received advice, treatment or counselling for from any 
Doctor, during the 12 months immediately before the Starting Date.
Mrs C told us she suffered from two medical conditions in 1996. The first had been 
diagnosed in or around 1988 and was largely controlled by medication. It did leave her more 
prone to infections in the winter months, leading to time off work, but not for a prolonged 
period.
The second condition was due to an injury in 1992. The injury had caused Mrs C to have 
time off work and the problem recurred a couple of years later. This condition would not have 
been covered by the policy. From what she's told us, I think that, when she took out the 
policy, she was likely to have anticipated that any time off work would likely be due to this 
condition, or something connected to it. So I think this condition would have affected her 
decision to take the policy.
I find that, had the exclusion terms been brought to Mrs C's attention, its more likely than not 
that she wouldnt have taken the policy.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
AXA has told us Mrs C's store card account is now closed. So it needs to do the following:
1. AXA should find out how much Mrs C would have owed when she closed her store card.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs C owed when she closed she 
account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.
2. AXA should add simple interest (at 8% a year) on the difference between what Mrs C 
wouldve owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. 
3. If  when AXA works out what Mrs C would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs C 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest (at 8% a 
year) on the extra Mrs C paid. And they should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mrs C wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. 
4. AXA should tell Ms D what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs C that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AXA France IARD should pay compensation 
as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman