DRN-3457189
The complaint
Mr A says that he is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt grant him a second three-month 
Covid-19 related payment holiday, on the two loans he held with them. He is also unhappy 
with the requirement to complete an income and expenditure assessment.
What happened
Mr A holds two personal loans with HSBC. Starting in April 2020, he was unable to make the 
monthly repayments, due to the effects of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic on his personal 
finances. 
In July 2020, HSBC granted a three-month payment holiday to Mr A for both of his loans. 
This was backdated to the start of April 2020, when he had first started missing repayments. 
HSBC agreed to backdate this, as Mr As request for the holiday had initially been rejected 
due to what they say was incorrect details being provided. 
Mr A says he didnt know until he called HSBC in September 2020 (following further missed 
payments) that his payment holiday had expired. The contact notes say that he agreed to 
complete a payment holiday extension request online. HSBC say they wrote further to Mr A 
in October 2020 letting him know the accounts were in arrears after further payments had 
been missed. Mr A then complained. He was unhappy that his credit file had been adversely 
impacted and wanted to be granted a payment holiday without providing any income and 
expenditure information. 
HSBC said they had acted fairly. They said that when the backdated payment holiday was 
approved in July 2020, the confirmation made clear the dates that applied and that it had 
already expired. They also said that Mr A would need to provide income and expenditure 
information for them to consider any other arrangement and make sure it was affordable for 
him. HSBC say he didnt provide this and so no plan was agreed and a default notice was 
sent in June 2021.
The complaint was brought to our service for an independent review. Our investigator looked 
into it, but he thought HSBC had acted fairly. He said that HSBC had provided several 
complaint responses, but that our jurisdiction meant we could only consider any after          
29 January 2021. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said that it was HSBCs errors that meant adverse information was 
being recorded on his credit file and that he shouldnt have to provide the information being 
requested. As no agreement was reached the case was passed to me to reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Mr A first applied for a payment holiday for his loans, following a missed payment in April 
2020. This wasnt accepted due to an error in the details provided. HSBC finally approved it 
in July 2020 and backdated it. I can see they also paid Mr A £50 for the delay. As our 
investigator said, this was done through a final response letter. Mr A didnt bring a complaint 
about what transpired pre-July 2020 within the timescales set by our rules, so I dont have 
the power to consider HSBCs actions in relation to the initial payment holiday requests. 
When the payment holidays were approved and backdated in July 2020, I would have 
expected HSBC to have discussed an extension, or alternative support. The payment 
holidays had already expired and the right thing to do wouldve been to discuss Mr As 
position at this time. I cant see they did that. The approval letter did include the retrospective 
dates that the holidays had been backdated to, but it also said HSBC would be in touch at 
the end of the payment holiday about Mr As options. However, I dont consider it would have 
made a material difference had HSBC done more in July 2020. Ill explain why.
Mr A was asked to apply online for payment holiday extensions in September 2020 and I 
cant see that he did so. And on several occasions in the following months Mr A was asked 
for financial information and he declined to provide it. It follows if HSBC had asked for Mr As 
financial information in July 2020, he was more likely than not to decline to provide it then 
too, in which case payment holiday extensions or payment arrangements were unlikely to 
have been agreed in July 2020.  
Mr A has strong feelings about the need to provide HSBC with his personal data and worries 
about its retention. I can understand those concerns. However, Mr A was asking HSBC for a 
concession  to not have to make payments in line with his contracts. As a lender HSBC had 
a responsibility to take steps to ensure it didnt make an agreement which would cause Mr A 
financial detriment, and at the same time it was entitled to understand the circumstances 
leading to the need for said concessions. I dont find it was wrong  or unusual  for HSBC 
to want Mr As financial information to enable it to make an informed decision. 
Mr A continued to miss payments to both his accounts, so the arrears continued to accrue. 
HSBC made it clear to him of the need to take action and the repercussions of not doing so. 
HSBC also made clear of its intention to default the accounts and what this would mean.    
Mr A didnt bring the accounts up to date, or provide the information HSBC needed to 
consider repayment arrangements, so HSBC considered the accounts in default and 
informed the credit reference agencies. I find this was fair and reasonable given the situation 
as set out above. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Yoni SmithOmbudsman