DRN-3354031
The complaint
Mr M complains about the charges that Morgan Lloyd SIPP Services Limited (Morgan Lloyd) 
applied to his self invested personal pension (SIPP) when the funds were switched to a cash 
account. Mr M says that as his SIPP wasnt being managed during that period Morgan 
Lloyd shouldnt have applied its usual management fees. He would like the fees that were 
charged while his account was held in cash to be refunded. 
What happened
In March 2012 Mr M agreed to transfer the benefits from his employers group personal 
pension plan into a SIPP through Morgan Lloyd. The amount transferred, after the deduction 
of fees, was £52,927.07. The initial advice charge was noted to be 3% of the fund. Morgan 
Lloyd set out the other SIPP fees in a separate charges schedule document. 
I understand that in September 2019 the funds were switched into a current bank account 
within the SIPP. 
In December 2020 Mr M asked for his SIPP to be transferred to another provider. But as the 
transfer hadnt completed some weeks later, he complained about the delay. Subsequently 
the transfer completed in March 2021, but Mr M became aware that the transfer value was 
around £564 less than a value hed been given from the previous year. As Mr M said hed 
been advised there would no transfer fees  and his funds had been held in cash during that 
time, he asked for an explanation of the fall in the SIPPs value. 
 
Morgan Lloyd explained that there had been a transfer fee of £200 but Mr M said this didnt 
explain all of the shortfall. Morgan Lloyd then confirmed that its annual fee had been 
deducted from the SIPP in October 2020. But Mr M said that, as his SIPP hadnt been 
managed while the funds were held in cash, the fee should be refunded. He complained that 
any fees charged against what he thought to be a dormant account were unreasonable and 
unfair. 
Morgan Lloyd didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said that it had provided Mr M with a 
schedule of its charges when he applied for the SIPP. It confirmed that the fees were fixed 
and applied to the SIPP whichever fund he might be invested in  even if the investment was 
cash. So as Mr M had agreed to its fees at the outset it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong and had applied its charges correctly.
But Mr M wasnt happy with this outcome, so he brought his complaint us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. 
He didnt think the complaint should be upheld as he thought it was clear from the SIPP 
terms and conditions that Morgan Lloyd was entitled to apply its SIPP charges regardless of 
where the funds were invested. 
But Mr M didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So its 
been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. I realise this is an 
outcome that will disappoint Mr M  and Ive seen how strongly he feels about this matter 
through his submissions. But I dont think Morgan Lloyd has acted unfairly here  so Ill 
explain my reasons. 
Morgan Lloyd has told us that Mr M had two complaints with it. One was about the delay in 
transferring his SIPP to another provider and the other  which Im considering here, is about 
the annual fees that Mr M was charged while his SIPP funds were held in a cash account. 
However, Mr M made no mention of the delay complaint when he contacted us, and I 
havent seen any further reference to the matter. I asked Mr M recently to confirm whether 
he had received a resolution to the complaint, but he didnt respond. 
So, to be clear here, what Im considering is the matter of the fees Mr M says he would like 
refunded. If Mr M doesnt think his other complaint about the transfer delay has been 
resolved he should go back to Morgan Lloyd in the first instance and, if he remains 
unsatisfied with its response, he can then bring that complaint to us.  
When Mr M took out his SIPP Morgan Lloyd had a duty of care to draw his attention to the 
features and benefits of the plan. One of those features  which is the subject of Mr Ms 
complaint, was the charges that applied both to Morgan Lloyds initial advice and the 
ongoing management and administration of the SIPP. I would have expected Morgan Lloyd 
to confirm to Mr M the level of its charges and the reason behind them  which Im satisfied it 
did.
 
I say that because within the original application form that was completed, there was a legal 
declaration which drew Mr Ms attention to a number of important points. Point 3 stated that, 
I accept and agree to pay the fees and charges set out in the SIPP charges schedule. I 
understand that the fees will be reviewed regularly as stated in the SIPP terms and 
conditions. This declaration was signed by Mr M, so he was aware that there would be 
charges and understood that they would be applied according to the charges schedule. 
So Ive looked carefully at the schedule, which confirmed the costs of all the relevant 
services and administrative tasks for the SIPP, one of which was the annual administration 
fee. That cost varied depending on whether a client was advised or not and whether they 
used a panel or non-panel investment provider. But each cost was set out clearly and I think 
Mr M was made aware that he would have an annual fee applied to his SIPP and there was 
nothing to suggest the fee wouldnt apply if funds were held in cash. 
Theres also no evidence elsewhere to suggest Morgan Lloyd said its fees would be 
amended or reduced or suspended simply because Mr Ms funds were switched to cash. 
The annual fee isnt for the management of the individual investments or funds  thats 
covered by the actual fund charges  of which the charge for a cash account is likely to be 
significantly lower. 
But the annual administration fee is applied to the SIPP in respect of Morgan Lloyds overall 
management of the plan, regardless of the funds that the money is invested in. I can 
understand Mr Ms frustration here as he believes that the fees should have been amended 
or even refunded when his SIPP funds were switched to cash. He says this complaint is 
about Morgan Lloyd not being able to justify its fees in terms of the management it needed 
to carry out when his funds werent actually invested. He also said he thought the fees were 
generally high. 
Im not aware of any regulation in respect of excessive fees. But what I would expect is for 
a firm to set out its fees clearly before a recommendation goes ahead which Im satisfied 
Morgan Lloyd did here. But for completeness, based on my experience, I think Morgan 
Lloyds SIPP fees are broadly in line with what Ive seen from other providers. However, 
even if that observation is incorrect, I think Morgan Lloyd applied its charges in the way it 
said it would and I cant say it acted unreasonably or unfairly in the way it treated Mr M.
Mr M has referred to his SIPP as being dormant  which is why he says these charges 
shouldnt have applied. But his SIPP wasnt dormant, it was still an active plan which Mr M 
was free to invest in any other way he wished. And if the plan was still active then it required 
the same level of administration and management regardless of how the funds were 
invested.
I understand Mr M is frustrated by this and would like Morgan Lloyd to justify the charge in 
respect of the duties it undertook. But Morgan Lloyd set out its charges at the time of the 
advice and explained what the individual charges were for, and Mr M accepted these 
charges as part of the terms and conditions of his SIPP. So I dont think Morgan Lloyd 
should have to refund any of its fees to Mr M in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman