DRN-3031698
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card, in 2001. Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him PPI with the 
card.
To keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Halifax.
background
One of our adjudicators looked into the case and said they didnt think we should uphold the 
mis-sale element of the complaint. 
They also said that although Halifax doesnt accept it did anything wrong in relation to the 
commission it obtained as a result of selling the PPI, it has since made an offer to Mr W as if 
it had. The adjudicator thought this offer to pay back some of the cost in relation to the 
commission element was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint. However, 
Ive also considered the issue of the non-disclosure of the commission as mentioned above. 
Ive seen that Halifax has made an offer in respect of this, and I too think the offer to refund 
some of the cost to compensate for the commission element is fair in the circumstances. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
Weve seen a number of similar cases to this and so we now have a good understanding of 
how the sales were usually carried out and the information consumers were typically given. 
Ive used this knowledge  and also what the parties have told us  in determining this case.
Records show this sale took place in a face-to-face meeting in a Halifax branch. From what I 
know about this method of sale, I think there would have most likely been a discussion about 
the policy and some general information given about it before consumers like Mr W were 
then asked to sign a credit agreement.
Ive looked at the original credit agreement Mr W signed and I can see theres a section on it 
for credit card repayment insurance. Overall I think it presents the PPI as optional and its 
indicated on the form that Mr W wanted to take out the PPI cover. Theres an x placed in 
the relevant box to agree to the PPI, which I think would have been put in there as a result of 
the discussion Ive mentioned above. 
I therefore think Halifax properly obtained his consent for the PPI policy.
 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr W as part of an advised sale so it had to check that it 
was right for him. In my view, the evidence about Mr Ws circumstances at the time, shows 
that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example, he was 
eligible for the cover and he had only limited other means to fall back on in the event of 
something unexpected happening, such as losing his job or being unable to work. Its not 
entirely clear whether Mr W had any sickness protection with his job, but I dont think this 
necessarily makes the PPI unsuitable for him anyway. The policy could have paid 10% of his 
existing credit card balance for up to a year if hed needed to claim. This would have been in 
addition to any other means he had. 
So I think the policy was suitable for him and recommending it to him wasnt unreasonable.
Its obviously possible the information Halifax gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been, but as Ive said, he chose to take it out so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover. The policy wasnt too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from 
the information he was likely given at the point of sale. We were told Mr W had suffered from 
certain pre-existing medical conditions before the policy was sold to him. However, no 
evidence and few details were provided about these and from what I can see, these 
conditions probably wouldnt have caused Mr W to think that taking extended time off work 
because of either of them was likely. Of course, I accept they would have nevertheless been 
issues of concern at the time. 
Ive also seen nothing in the policy rules that would have made claiming for back or mental 
health problems especially onerous for Mr W. It also looks like the cover was affordable for 
him and useful if something went wrong. I therefore dont think he would have declined the 
policy even if Halifax could have done a better job at explaining things, such as some of the 
limitations and exclusions.
Mr Ws representative raised a number of what I consider to be general points, which it says 
apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is 
not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these 
policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover coupled with a low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant 
Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions and the impact on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. Ive 
thought about these and how they might apply in Mr Ws particular case. But these points 
dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.non-disclosure of commission
As I also mentioned above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, 
including whether this resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received under 
the rules that apply  but in any event I note its offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, 
so theres nothing more it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr Ws representative has made a number of points about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint. In summary they said Mr W should get back all the money he 
paid for the policy because Halifax failed to tell him about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio, and the typical restrictions / exclusions on cover. 
Because they say these things meant the policy was poor value, they imply I should find that 
Mr W wouldnt have taken out the policy had he known about the level of commission. His 
representative says he should receive a refund of all the premiums paid.
However, in this case, Halifax has shown us that the commission for Mr Ws PPI was less 
than half of what he paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this out 
and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr Ws case was less 
than half the cost of the PPI, and therefore below the threshold mentioned in the rules about 
compensating consumers.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which require a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
So, I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mr W about the commission levels in this particular 
case. It follows that I dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship and I dont 
therefore think Halifax treated Mr W unfairly.  This means it doesnt need to pay Mr W back 
any of the commission he paid for the PPI. 
However, in any event, Halifax has since offered to give back to Mr W some of the cost of 
the PPI to compensate Mr W as if it had treated him unfairly. I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
my decision
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipHaving considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set out 
above, I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ws complaint or make any award in his 
favour. 
Ive also decided that Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, but it has already offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. I 
understand this has already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman