DRN-4008639
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the lending policy of Principality Building Society (PBS) which he 
says is unfair. Mr J is also unhappy about the way PBS dealt with his complaint after his 
application for additional borrowing on his mortgage was declined.
To settle the complaint he wants PBS to consider his application fairly.
On 24 July 2023 I issued a jurisdiction decision explaining that I have no power to consider 
Mr Js complaint about how PBS handled the complaint he made following the decision to 
decline the further advance. The decision that follows is about Mr Js complaint that PBS 
declined his application for a further advance.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 7 February 2023. All parties have a copy of that letter, 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr J being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what 
happened quite brief.
Mr J has a mortgage with PBS taken out in January 2018. The events giving rise to the 
complaint arose in August 2022. Mr J was on a fixed interest rate product that was due to 
expire. He owed about £132,000 on his mortgage, on a capital repayment basis, with a 
loan-to-value ratio (LTV) of about 45%.
On 1 August 2022 Mr J switched his mortgage onto a new five-year fixed rate, beginning the 
following month and ending in September 2027. If he repays the mortgage in full or in part 
during that time, an early repayment charge (ERC) will be payable. Mr J also said he wanted 
to borrow additional funds for debt consolidation.
Mr J discussed this with PBS on 25 August 2022, when he spoke on the phone to an adviser 
I will call SJ. Mr J asked to borrow an additional £20,000 for debt consolidation. There were 
two calls, the first when SJ took details of Mr Js financial commitments. At the end of that 
call SJ said the application hadnt passed affordability, but he would speak to someone 
about this and call him back. 
During the second call, SJ explained that hed spoken to underwriters, but the application 
still couldnt be approved, because the existing debt was affecting affordability.
Mr J was unhappy about this and told SJ he wanted to raise a complaint. He said he thought 
the policy was stupid and said he wanted to argue this until PBS approved the additional 
borrowing. SJ said he would arrange for someone to call him. Mr J spoke to a staff member I 
will call MG on 26 August 2022, but the call wasnt recorded. 
There was another call on 30 August 2022, when Mr J spoke to a staff member I will call CR. 
That was followed up by a written complaint made by Mr J to PBS, initially to the CEO but 
replied to by a staff member who dealt with complaints, TP.
In his email to TP dated 8 September 2022 Mr J was adamant that hed been told by SJ that, 
if property prices fell as they had in 2008, hed be in negative equity. Mr J said this was 
ridiculous, because, with the additional borrowing, his LTV would still only be about 50%, so 
his property would need to fall in value by 50%. 
Mr J said he had done some research about this and hadnt found any evidence to suggest 
house prices were going to fall by 50%. Mr J said Im not sure what point [SJ] was trying to 
make by referencing a housing market crash of 50% unless he was trying to intimidate me 
into backing down from my equity release application. I am still waiting for confirmation from 
[PBS] if a housing market crash of 50% is your official position
PBS didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that its lending policy was that where further 
borrowing was taken out to clear debts, the affordability assessment would include those 
debts. Thats because the advance is made to the customer, not the creditors, so there is no 
guarantee the debts would be repaid, hence the need to consider them in the affordability 
assessment.
To resolve the complaint PBS agreed, because Mr J had only recently taken out a new 
product, to waive the ERC if he wanted to re-mortgage to a new lender.
Mr J was still unhappy and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator 
looked at what had happened, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He noted 
that, although PBS had sent in call recordings (including two calls with SJ), there was one 
call on 26 August 2022 with MG that wasnt available. Mr J says that this is the crucial call in 
which hed been told that his loan application was being refused because his property could 
fall into negative equity.
Mr J maintains hes not been treated fairly and so it falls to me to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will explain first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers 
and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. 
Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to investigate a complaint. So 
although Ive noted the questions which Mr J would like answered, its not my role to put 
those questions to PBS or act as a representative or go-between on this case.
Mr J was adamant when he made his complaint to PBS in early September 2022 that it was 
SJ who told him that property prices would fall by 50% when he spoke to him to discuss his 
application. Mr J had only two conversations with SJ  both on 25 August 2022. I note that there is a call that PBS wasnt able to provide a recording for, with a member of 
staff I will call MG, which took place on 26 August 2022. Mr J has now told us that this was 
the call where he was told that his property could fall into negative equity. 
However, having looked at what Mr J told PBS, Im not persuaded that this is correct, given 
that Mr J was insistent in his email of 8 September 2022 that it was SJ who had told him this. 
Im satisfied, from listening to the calls with SJ on 25 August 2022 that SJ did not mention at 
any point that there was a danger of Mr J falling into negative equity. 
Mr J thinks there might be something sinister or untoward on the part of PBS because it 
couldnt provide a recording of his call with MG on 26 August 2022. However, because Mr J 
made it clear in his email to PBS of 8 September 2022 that it was SJ who had said his 
property could fall into negative equity, the call with MG is therefore of no relevance to that 
issue. 
I cant tell PBS what lending criteria it must apply; thats a matter for its own commercial 
judgement and risk appetite. Indeed, I note that SJ explained to Mr J that PBS was one of 
the more risk-averse lenders in this regard. All lenders are allowed to decide the terms on 
which they will lend. In relation to further advances some, like PBS, take into account the 
existing credit commitments when assessing affordability; others do not. There are also 
lenders that will not allow further advances for debt consolidation under any circumstances. 
PBSs rationale is that further advances are paid directly to the customers, and so it has no 
control over whether those customers actually pay off the debts they were intending to 
consolidate or not. Therefore it will take into account when assessing affordability that this 
might not happen. That is not unreasonable, in my opinion.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that PBS fairly applied its lending criteria to Mr Js 
application. Having done so, PBS was entitled to decline the application. I understand why 
Mr J thinks this is unfair, but I cant see that, by applying its lending criteria to this particular 
application, PBS has treated him any differently from any other customer in the same 
circumstances. I dont have the power to order PBS to make an exception to its lending 
policy specifically for Mr J.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr J was hoping for. It remains open to him to re-apply to PBS 
for a further advance if his circumstances change, or to re-mortgage to another lender. I note 
PBS said almost a year ago that it would waive any ERC if Mr J wanted to remortgage. 
However, that was right at the start of his new fixed-rate product, so I dont know if that 
situation still stands. PBS should clarify this with Mr J. I dont have any power to order PBS 
not to apply any contractual ERC, so if PBS does decide to waive it, this would be as a 
gesture of goodwill only.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Jan O'LearyOmbudsman