DRN-3381732
The complaint
Mrs and Mr W complain that Cumberland Building Society mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to them alongside a mortgage. 
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs and Mr 
Ws circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information 
here.
Our adjudicator initially didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs and Mr W didnt 
agree with that view. Our adjudicator then thought the complaint should be upheld, but this 
time Cumberland did not agree with that view.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me to make a decision. I 
thought the complaint should be upheld and I issued a provisional decision.
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision, I said: 
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my
reasons for this conclusion below.
This was an advised sale. That means Cumberland had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the policy was suitable for Mrs and Mr Ws needs. To help me decide whether the 
cover was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. And Ive also 
thought about what Mrs and Mr W told us about their personal circumstances from the 
point of sale.
Cumberland told us that if Mrs or Mr W had to make a claim on the PPI policy, they 
would have been paid £250 towards their monthly mortgage repayments if they were off 
sick or if they lost their jobs. £500 would have been paid if they were both out of work at 
the same time.
If Mrs or Mr W wanted to claim for unemployment, they had to show that one or both of 
them was:
Out of work;
Registered as unemployed with the Department for Work and Pensions; and
Available for and actively looking for employment.
Looking at the mortgage application form, I can see that at the point of sale, Mr W had 
two jobs. He was working on a self-employed basis, which appeared to be his main 
source of income. He also had a second job as an employee.
So it seems to me that in order for Mr W to be able to make a successful unemployment 
claim, he had to be out of work. Effectively, that means he would have had to lose both 
jobs at the same time. Mr Ws jobs were very different, so I think the chances of him being 
made redundant from both of them at the same time were remote.
Our adjudicator asked Cumberland for its views on this point. It said that Mr Ws eligibility 
wasnt affected by having two jobs. It said it thought Mr W would have still been able to 
claim state benefits if he lost his main job because his work as an employee was for fewer 
than 16 hours a week.
I accept that Mr W may well have been able to claim state benefits if he lost his self- 
employment and was only working part-time as an employee. But the policy document says 
that in order to make a claim, Mr W would also have to be out of work. I cant see that 
work is defined elsewhere in the policy document. So it seems to me that unless Mr W lost 
both jobs, he wouldnt have been able to make an unemployment claim.
In addition to that, if Mr W lost his job as an employee, he wouldnt have been able to 
make a claim because it looks as though he would have been working for more than 16 
hours per week in his self-employment role.
Putting all of these things together, I dont think the PPI policy was suitable for Mrs and Mr
W. I dont think they would have bought the PPI policy if these limitations had been reflected 
at the point of sale. Subject to any further information and evidence I receive from the 
parties, I intend to uphold the complaint on that basis.
Neither Mrs and Mr W nor their representative responded to the provisional decision. But 
Cumberland replied to indicate it agreed with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided me with any further information to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. So for the reasons set out above, I have upheld this 
complaint. Cumberland will need to put things right as Ive set out below. 
Putting things right
Cumberland must put Mrs and Mr W in the financial position they would be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already 
and Cumberland must:Pay Mrs and Mr W the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs and Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Cumberland can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. It can also 
deduct any amounts its already paid regarding commission and profit share.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cumberland to take off tax from this interest.
Cumberland must give Mrs and Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
they ask for one. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Cumberland Building Society to put things right as I have 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman