DRN-2711449
The complaint
Mr B complains Society of Lloyds has unfairly recorded multiple motor insurance claims 
against him.
 
What happened
Mr Bs unhappy that Lloyds has recorded numerous motor insurance claims against him. 
The claims are from the last five years or so when he was in the taxi business. Mr B says he 
wasnt the driver or at fault for any of these claims so they shouldnt be in his name. He also 
says the policies, the claims were made against, were held by his limited company  rather 
than him personally. He feels the claims shouldnt be recorded against him. But as they are, 
hes finding it difficult and expensive to arrange motor insurance.
In response to a complaint from Mr B Lloyds said it hadnt done anything wrong. It accepted 
he wasnt involved in all the incidents. But it said the policies in place at the time of the 
claims were all in his name personally  not his limited companys. It said that meant the 
claims have been correctly recorded against him. So it didnt amend or remove any claims 
records. 
Our investigator agreed the policies were in Mr Bs name personally. But he felt Lloyds 
should have realised they should have been in his limited companys. So the investigator 
recommended Lloyds remove records of all the claims where Mr B wasnt the driver. He also 
said it should pay him £200 compensation. Neither Mr B or Lloyds accepted that 
assessment, so the complaint wash passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision in March 2021. It forms part of this final decision  so Ive 
copied in its findings below. In it I explained why I intended to come to a different outcome to 
the investigator. I explained why I didnt think Lloyds did anything wrong by setting up the 
policies in Mr Bs name  rather than his limited companys. I also said I didnt think it had 
unfairly recorded any claims against his policies. I said I didnt intend to require Lloyds to 
amend any claim records or pay him any compensation. 
I also asked Mr B and Lloyds to provide anything they would like considered before I issued 
a final decision. Lloyds didnt respond. Mr B didnt agree with my provisional decision. He 
provided some additional information and comments.
what Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to come 
to a different outcome to the investigator. 
Ive been provided with policy information by both Mr B and Lloyds. All the relevant 
policies were held by Mr B personally. Some were in just his name. Whilst others the 
policyholder is given as Mr B trading as  - with the name of his limited company 
given. But thats not the same as the limited company itself being the policyholder. 
Instead its Mr B as the policyholder.
Ive seen a list of claims. I accept he wasnt the driver or responsible for them. The 
policies covered various vehicles driven by different named drivers. But Ive no 
reason to think any of the claims werent made against a policy held by Mr B 
personally. 
I dont agree that Lloyds should have realised the various polices should have been 
in the name of Mr Bs limited company. All the polices were arranged by a broker. If I 
thought the broker had requested Lloyds set up the polices in the name of the limited 
company, but it had failed to do so, I might say it had done something wrong. But I 
havent seen enough to make me think thats most likely the case. 
If Mr B had asked the broker to arrange cover in the name of the limited company but 
it had failed to do so, that wouldnt be Lloyds responsibility. That would be something 
he would need to complain to the broker about.   
So I cant currently say Lloyds did anything wrong by setting up the policies in Mr Bs 
name  rather than his limited companys. I accept this will be frustrating for Mr B but 
I also cant say Lloyds unfairly recorded any claims against his policies. So I dont 
intend to require it to amend any claim records. And as I dont think Lloyds has 
treated Mr B unfairly, I also dont intend to require it to pay him any compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs said how he was a director of his limited company. Hes said insurers would have had 
his name as well as the limited companys. Mr Bs also explained his limited company sold a 
number of taxis to another limited company. He adds licences and insurance were also 
transferred over. Mr Bs also provided details of a claim including a total loss report and 
insurance certificate.
But I still havent seen anything that makes me think the various policies, with claims 
recorded against them, werent in Mr Bs name. Insurance documents hes provided all show 
him personally as the policyholder. His name is listed alone  or listed followed by trading 
as. followed by the name of his limited company. As I said in my provisional decision Mr B 
trading as isnt the same as the policy being held by the limited company itself. I havent 
seen anything that persuades me Lloyds set these policies up incorrectly after Mr B or his 
broker had asked for them to be in his limited companys name. 
Mr B asks if the policies being in him his name means hes responsible for all the claims  
even ones where he wasnt driving. Im not deciding or saying he was responsible for any 
incidents. Im considering if the claims have been fairly recorded against his policies by 
Lloyds. And all do seem to be relevant to a car insured under policies held by Mr B 
personally.  
Ive considered everything Mr Bs provide in response to my provisional decision but it hasnt 
changed my position on his complaint. I still cant say Lloyds did anything wrong by setting 
up the policies in Mr Bs name  or recording any of the claims against his policies. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to require Society of Lloyds to amend any claims 
records, pay Mr B any compensation or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman