DRN-4101975
The complaint
Mr A complains that he and his wife were mis-sold a long-term holiday product. Because the 
purchase was financed with a loan from Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, Mr A says 
that he has a claim against it in the same way he has a claim against the seller.
Where I refer to Mr As evidence and arguments, I include evidence presented and 
arguments made by his representative. I shall refer to Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
as BPF.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A were existing members of Club Infiniti, a points based holiday club. While they 
were on holiday in December 2017, they were approached by a representative who wanted 
to discuss their membership  something which Mr A says routinely happens.
Mr A says that he expressed some concern at recent increases in management fees. He 
was told that he could buy a new product which would remove the management fees for 
three years. The new product would involve buying a property, the cost of which would be 
equivalent to ten years of management fees. When the property was sold, Mr A would get 
his money back and make a profit.
What Mr and Mrs A actually bought at the time was, however, a further 10,000 Club Infiniti 
points (in addition to the 20,001 they already held), at a cost of £23,928.00. Mr A took out a 
loan with BPF for the full amount of the purchase price, repayable over 15 years.
Mr A says that he was misled about the purchase of the additional points. There is no 
property linked to the arrangement, which runs until 2057 (although there is an exit clause 
after 5 years). He says too that he should have been told that he could simply relinquish his 
existing points at no extra cost.
In addition, Mr A says that BPF carried out no checks to ensure that the loan was suitable or 
affordable. As he was 60 years old at the time, it will not be repaid until he is 75.
Mr A says that the circumstances of the sale mean that the loan agreement creates an unfair 
relationship between him and BPF. He seeks reimbursement of all sums paid under it, with 
interest.
When Mr A complained to BPF, it did not respond, other than to acknowledge receipt of the 
complaint and to send holding letters. He therefore referred the matter to this service, where 
one of our investigators considered what had happened. She did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. Mr A did not accept that recommendation and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the Infiniti Club points in 
December 2017. It was arranged by Leisure Dimensions Limited, the seller of the points. I 
have therefore considered what Mr A has said about the sale.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract.
I have summarised above what Mr A says he was told he was buying. I think it is clear from 
the Purchase Agreement itself, however, that what he actually bought was rather different. 
Page 1 of the agreement records that it was for the sale and purchase of 10,000 points and 
the sale of the points was a supply of service connected to immovable property. No specific 
or identifiable property was referred to, and no mention was made of any future sale. Page 1 
also said that the points would expire in 2057.
The agreement also included a confirmation that Club Infiniti Points Fees would be waived 
for 2018, 2019 and 2020. In addition, Mr and Mrs A received a letter confirming that they 
could surrender their Club Infiniti points after five years. That letter also said: If you currently 
hold previous Club Infiniti Purchase Agreements with a Surrender Clause, these will be 
honoured and excluded from this five year agreement.
As required by The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts 
Regulations 2010, Mr and Mrs A had 14 days in which to withdraw from the agreement.
It is not for me to decide whether Mr A has a valid claim for misrepresentation against 
Leisure Dimensions Limited or, therefore, whether he can bring such a claim against BPF. In 
deciding whats fair and reasonable, however, they are matters I must take into account.
What Mr A says he was told about the contract bears little relationship to what he bought. He 
says he thought he was buying an interest in a property, but I think it was clear from the 
agreement he and Mrs A signed that the contract was for the purchase of points. In the 
circumstances, I think it unlikely that he was told he was buying an interest in property. If he 
did think that, it was clear from the purchase agreement itself that he was mistaken. I note as 
well that he and Mrs A were existing club members, so can be expected to be familiar with 
the purchase of points.
I think it is important too that the agreement included a 14-day cooling-off period. That 
meant that Mr A had time even after he had signed the agreement, to review it. Given the 
fundamental difference between what he thought he was agreeing and what he in fact 
agreed, I might have expected him to query the position in that time.
Mr A says too that he was not told he could have surrendered his existing points. But he did 
receive a letter raising that possibility. It was not hidden from him.In the circumstances, I do not believe it would be fair to require BPF to meet Mr As claim for 
misrepresentation.
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In considering whether a credit agreement creates an unfair 
relationship, a court can take into account any linked agreement  which in this case would 
include the agreement with Leisure Dimensions Limited.
For the reasons I have explained, I do not believe that Mr A was misled about the purchase 
agreement. Its basic terms were clear and unambiguous. Mr A has pointed out that the 
points he bought were poor value for money and that, in effect, he paid nearly £24,000 to 
avoid having to pay management fees for three years. And he has queried why he would 
pay that sum and then surrender the points after five years, remaining liable to make the 
loan payments.
I can see why Mr A might think that he has entered into an agreement with is poor value for 
money. It does not seem to me however that this means that a court would make an order 
under section 140A.
Mr A says too that no affordability [checks] were carried out before the loan was agreed. I 
have not seen any evidence of what checks were or were not made. Equally, it appears that 
Mr A has been able to make payments in line with the loan terms. He has not suggested that 
he has had difficulty in doing so. My current view on this point is that, if BPF had carried out 
proper checks, its likely that it would have agreed to the loan in any event.
Only a court can make orders under section 140A and 140B; I have no power to do so. I 
must however have regard to those provisions in considering whats fair and reasonable. 
But, for the reasons Ive explained, I think it unlikely that a court would make an order in this 
case.
I concluded that I was unlikely to uphold Mr As complaint, but invited further submissions 
from both parties. 
BPF said it had nothing to add. Mr A indicated that he would be making further submissions, 
but has not done so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for me to consider, I do 
not believe there is any reason to reach a different conclusion from that set out in my 
provisional decision. I stress however that I have reviewed the case file in full before 
reaching that conclusion.   My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint and I do not 
require Clydesdale Financial Services Limited to do anything more to resolve it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman