DRN-3143836
Complaint
Mr C has complained that Retail Money Market Ltd (trading as Ratesetter) unfairly brought 
about an unaffordable loan for him. He said the loan caused him to get into financial crisis. 
Background
Ratesetter operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mr C being 
provided with a loan to pay for a training course in July 2016. The loan was for £407.18. The 
agreement had a 24-month term and the total amount of £468.66, excluding the deposit of 
£101.80 Mr C paid to the retailer but including interest and other charges of £61.78, was due 
to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £19.54.
Mr Cs complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She thought that Ratesetter 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly. So she didnt recommend Mr Cs 
complaint be upheld. As Mr C disagreed with our investigators view, the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint.
Ratesetter needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr C 
could afford to make the monthly payments before bringing about this loan for him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
As I understand it, this was Mr Cs first agreement with Ratesetter. And its fair to say Mr C 
was being able to make relatively low monthly payments over not too long a period of time. 
Ratesetter enquiries into Mr Cs circumstances suggested that he was employed and 
earning around £1,250.00 a month. 
I also understand that Ratesetter also carried out a credit check which showed Mr C had a 
existing credit commitments with no significant previous repayment issues and it worked out 
that he paid around £360 a month to his existing credit. Ratesetter also used data from the 
Office of National Statistics (ONS) to calculate Mr Cs non-mortgage and credit related 
living expenses. 
As there was no concerning information on Mr Cs credit file and the monthly loan 
repayments were relatively low, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Ratesetter to use 
ONS data to calculate Mr Cs non-mortgage and credit related living expenditure. This is 
because the monthly payments for this agreement were low and everything obtained 
suggested Mr C didnt fall outside the profile of the average customer. I accept that Mr C 
went on to have difficulty making the payments to this agreement and Im sorry to hear this. 
But Im satisfied that Ratesetters checks before approving this loan were proportionate. 
I also think that I should explain that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont 
think that Ratesetter did anything wrong when bringing about Mr Cs loan. The key thing 
here is that it carried out proportionate checks which suggested the repayments would be 
affordable for him. 
So overall I dont think that Ratesetter treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably when bringing 
about his agreement. As this is the case and while I sympathise with Mr C as a result of any 
difficulties he might have gone on to have, Im afraid that Im not upholding his complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr C. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman