DRN-3574037
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund her the money she lost 
after she was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In 2021, Miss M used an online sales website hoping to sell a second-hand pram for 
£500. Shortly after posting an advertisement on the site, Miss M was contacted by 
someone who said they were interested. Unfortunately, we now know this person to be a 
fraudster but at the time, Miss M said the buyer came across as genuine - and a sale 
was ultimately agreed. 
A few days later, the buyer got in touch again and told Miss M theyd transferred the 
funds to an account she held with a payment services platform which, for the purposes of 
this decision, I will refer to as Company P. Miss M was told that in order for Company P 
to authorise the transaction, Miss M would need to be pay for transport fees which 
amounted to £300. The buyer explained that she wasnt able to collect the pram and so 
had arranged for Company P to deliver it to her instead which is why this additional cost 
had been incurred. Miss M has told us that this didnt raise any alarms bells at the time 
as she thought she was dealing with a genuine buyer. 
On 23 March 2021, Miss M received an email from someone claiming to be an 
introducer at Company P. Miss M said she compared the email address to genuine 
Company P email addresses, and it looked the same. The introducer confirmed that the 
buyer had made a payment of £800 to cover the cost of the sale and the transportation 
costs and all Miss M had to do was transfer the £300 upfront and the payment would be 
released in full. Miss M then made this payment to an account held by a third party whos 
name she did not recognise  the account wasnt held in the name of Company P or in 
the name of the buyer she thought she was dealing with. 
On the same day, Miss M received a further email, again purportedly from Company P. 
This time the email said Miss M would need to pay a further £350 for insurance which 
Company P had previously forgotten to add. Again, Miss M was told the buyer would 
cover these costs once the transaction had been authorised. The next day Miss M 
confirmed the payment had been made.
The next day Miss M received another email confirming her Company P account had 
been credited but a mistake had been made and she had been over-paid by the buyer. 
Miss M was told that she would need to re-pay the difference to the buyer before she 
could receive her funds. At this point, Miss M realised that something wasnt quite right, 
and she contacted the genuine Company P who informed her that she had mostly likely 
been the victim of a scam. At this point, Miss M contacted her bank, Monzo.
Monzo completed an investigation into what had happened to Miss M but ultimately 
declined to offer her a refund. It said Miss M had no reasonable basis for believing what 
she had been told by the buyer/Company P and shouldve completed further checks 
before proceeding to make the payments. Monzo said there were a number of 
inconsistencies in what Miss M had been told  including that she had somehow been 
overpaid. Monzo also pointed out that warnings about scams had been presented to 
Miss M during the payment process for the first payment but Miss M had proceeded with 
the payment regardless.
Unhappy with Monzos response, Miss M brought her complaint to this service and one 
of our investigators looked into things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she wasnt persuaded Miss M had a 
reasonable basis for believing she was paying a genuine person for genuine goods or 
services  she didnt think the story Miss M had been told by the fraudster was plausible  
she thought that Miss M having to send money in order to receive payment was 
suspicious and shouldve prompted further checks by Miss M. She also said that she 
didnt think either of the payments sent by Miss M were significant or unusual enough to 
have been flagged by Monzos security systems prior to them leaving Miss Ms account. 
And so, she didnt ask Monzo to offer Miss M a refund. 
Miss M disagreed. She said the payments were significant to her and the scam had taken a 
toll on her mental health as well as her finances. 
As an agreement has not been reached, Miss M has asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a payment service provider is expected to 
process payments that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations (PSRs), which apply to this complaint, and the account terms and conditions. 
But where a customer made a payment as a result of the actions of a scammer, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for a payment service provider to reimburse its 
customer, even though the payment was authorised.
Under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM 
code), payment service providers should reimburse customers who are victims of 
authorised push payment scams, such as this one, except in limited circumstances. 
Monzo isnt a signatory to the CRM code but it has agreed to act in the spirit of it and so 
when considering this complaint, I have taken account of whether Monzo ought to have 
reimbursed Miss M under the provisions of the CRM code, and whether it ought to have 
done more to protect her from potential financial harm from fraud. The code also places a 
level of care on Miss M, and so I have considered whether she met this level of care too.
The CRM Code
The CRM requires payment service providers to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams like this, in all but limited circumstances. 
It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under 
one, or more, of the listed exception set out in the CRM if they decline to reimburse.Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
othe person or business with whom they transacted was 
legitimate 
There are further exceptions within the CRM, but these arent applicable here. 
Did Miss M have a reasonable basis for belief?
Under the CRM, Monzo can choose not to reimburse Miss M if it doesnt believe she took 
the requisite level of care to ensure she had a reasonable basis for believing that the 
person/business she was paying was legitimate and for genuine goods or services. It isnt 
enough for Miss M to believe that she was paying a legitimate person/business for 
genuine goods or services, she had to have a reasonable basis for that belief.
Miss M has said that during her conversations with the buyer she didnt have any doubts 
that what she was being told was true. I have no reason to disbelieve Miss M and its clear 
that she trusted what she was being told. However, Im satisfied that there were a number 
of things about what Miss M was being told that shouldve fairly and reasonably caused 
concern. Ill explain why.
Miss M was told that the two payments she made were to pay for transport and insurance 
costs. But the combined total of these costs amounted to more than the cost of the pram 
itself and therefore presumably, they amounted to significantly more than it was worth. I 
think Miss M shouldve questioned why the buyer was apparently willing to spend more on 
transport and insurance costs than the pram was worth. 
I also think that the fact that Miss M was being asked to send money in order to receive 
money shouldve caused some concern here. Miss M was the seller in the transaction. If 
any money was exchanging hands, it shouldve been sent to her, not the other way round. 
In addition to the above, Miss M had been told that funds had been sent to her Company 
P account. But had Miss M checked her balance with Company P she wouldve seen that 
no amount was cleared or pending and so there was nothing on the face of it to validate 
what she had been told. Payments into this type of account are usually credited 
immediately. 
I also think it shouldve appeared suspicious to Miss M that she was required to make 
payment to an account that didnt appear to be related to Company P or in the name of 
the supposed buyer. All of the above shouldve rang alarms bells for Miss M and Im 
persuaded that she shouldve taken further steps to verify what she had been told before 
she proceeded to make any payments. 
I acknowledge what Miss M has said about thinking that she was genuinely speaking 
with Company P but its unclear why she thought Company P would be actively 
involved in the sale of a second-hand item, arranging insurance and transport costs 
when this is not a service they provide. Its also unclear what the role of an introducer 
was supposed to be. Having read the emails shared between Miss M and who she 
thought was Company P, its clear they also contained a number of typographical and 
grammatical errors that I would not expect from a legitimate organisation. Overall, Im persuaded that what Miss M was being told by the seller was suspicious 
enough to have prompted further questioning. But I havent been provided with any 
evidence to show Miss M carried out any sort of due diligence or that she attempted to 
verify what she was being told before deciding to send her money. It doesnt appear that 
Miss M thought about the amount she was sending in relation to the original cost of the 
pram or that she took any steps to verify what she was being told by Company P prior to 
her contact with the genuine Company P about the request for the third payment. 
So, whilst I acknowledge that Miss M was ultimately persuaded by what the fraudster had 
told her, Im satisfied that she ought reasonably have carried out more checks before 
making the payments  there were a number of red-flags here that shouldve reasonably 
given some cause for concern. So, having taken everything into account, Im satisfied 
Miss M shouldve done more to ensure that what she was being told by the buyer was 
genuine before she sent money to them in order to meet the required level of care under 
the CRM Code. Had she done so, I dont think she wouldve proceeded to make the 
payments. And so, I cant fairly say that met Miss M met her requirements under the 
CRM Code, and I think this made a difference here. 
Is there anything further Monzo couldve done to help Miss M
Ive also considered whether there was anything further Monzo couldve done in order to 
help Miss M, but I dont think there was.
The CRM Code sets out that where firms identify a scam risk, they should provide 
effective scam warnings to their customers. In this case, Monzo should also have had 
systems in place in place to look out for unusual and out of character transactions or any 
other signs that might indicate that its customer was at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
However, the payments Miss M made were largely unremarkable and for relatively small 
amounts  separated by a day and leaving her with a balance remaining. And so, Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable for me to say that Monzo shouldve 
identified the payments as potentially fraudulent at the time. 
I want to stress here that I am not saying that the payments were insignificant for Miss M. 
I have no doubt the loss of these funds has had a significant financial impact on Miss M 
but this isnt enough for me to say that Monzo should offer her a refund now. Im not 
persuaded that there was anything about the payments at the time that meant Monzo 
shouldve been able to identify them as potentially being made as a result of fraud. 
Finally, I want to say how sorry I am to hear about the circumstances Miss M has found 
herself in as a result of this scam. It is a cruel scam, one that relies on the good nature of its 
victim. But I dont think it would be fair and reasonable of me to conclude that her losses 
have been caused by any particular failing by Monzo, the fault here lies with the cruel and 
callous actions of the fraudsters themselves.
For the reasons set out above, I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Monzo 
Bank Ltd and I wont be asking it to do anything further. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman