DRN-2792575
The complaint
Mr N complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined his claim against his 
travel insurance policy. He also complains about how URV handled his claim. Reference to 
URV includes reference to its agents. 
Ms P is assisting Mr N in bringing his complaint. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in March 2019, Mr N booked a trip with intended departure and 
return dates of 4 January 2020 and 25 January 2020 respectively. On 20 August 2019,     
Mr N purchased an annual travel insurance policy with URV which started on                  
23 August 2019. 
On 16 December 2019, Mr Ns brother-in-law died. The funeral was to take place during 
Mr Ns trip. The airline wouldnt change the return date of Mr Ns flight and Mr N didnt 
want to risk rearranging the whole trip for fear of being unable to secure a departing flight 
on his preferred date. So, Mr N departed for the trip as planned but curtailed his trip and 
returned to the UK for the funeral. 
Mr N claimed against his policy in relation to unrecovered costs of curtailment. URV 
declined his claim. It said that the policy doesnt cover claims arising out of pre-existing 
medical conditions of a close relative.  
The background facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Ns policy provides cover for curtailment of a trip, subject to certain terms and 
conditions. Cover is excluded for curtailment claims due to an existing medical 
condition of a non-travelling close relative. A brother-in-law is included in the policys 
definition of a close relative. The policy defines an existing medical condition as:
Any serious or recurring medical condition which has been previously diagnosed or 
been investigated or treated in any way, at any time prior to travel, even if this 
condition is currently considered to be stable and under control. 
When an insurer seeks to rely on an exclusion in the policy, its for the insurer to 
show that exclusion applies. I dont think that URV treated Mr N unfairly in concluding 
that the curtailment here is excluded from the cover. Ill explain why.
The medical report dated 3 June 2020 provides that on 16 August 2019, Mr Ns 
brother-in-law was admitted for elective coronary artery bypass surgery. The death 
certificate records that one of the causes of Mr Ns brother-in-laws death was 
coronary artery bypass grafts. So, I think that the claim here arose out of a previously 
diagnosed condition of Mr Ns close relative and is excluded in the policy. Based on 
what Ive seen, I dont think that URV treated Mr N unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining the claim for the reason it did. 
I note that Mr N says that his wifes claim against her separate policy has been 
settled. Im looking at whether URV acted unfairly or unreasonably against the 
background of Mr Ns policys terms and conditions. Another policy with different 
terms and conditions may well result in a different outcome. 
Mr N says that he couldnt have foreseen his brother-in-laws death. But thats not the 
appropriate test here. The determining issue is that Mr Ns claim arose out of his 
brother-in-laws previously diagnosed serious or recurring medical condition and 
thats something thats excluded in the policy. 
Ive also considered whether there are any grounds on which I could fairly direct URV 
to deal with Mr Ns claim even though its excluded in the policy. I dont think theres 
anything which would lead me to direct URV to go beyond the policy terms here. 
URV didnt pursue promptly the medical information it required. And it made 
upsetting mistakes in its final response to Mr N. I agree with the investigator that fair 
compensation for Mr Ns distress and inconvenience arising out of these errors on 
URVs part is £100. I appreciate that Mr N thinks that is too low but Im not  
attempting to compensate him for URV declining his claim.
For these reasons, I uphold Mr Ns complaint in part. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, URV should pay Mr N compensation of £100 in relation to his 
distress and inconvenience.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint in part. I now require                           
Union Reiseversicherung AG to take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman