DRN-3439350
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the service she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC regarding
events surrounding the end of a payment holiday shed been granted on her personal loan.
What happened
In May 2020, Miss M was granted a three-month payment holiday by Barclays as she was
struggling to meet the payments due on her loan account because of the financial impact of
the Covid-19 pandemic. When that three-month payment holiday ended, Barclays granted
Miss M a further three-month payment holiday on the same terms. This second payment
holiday began in August and the first payment that would become due after the end of the
payment holiday would be in November.
Approximately a week after the second payment holiday had commenced, Barclays took a
loan payment by direct debit in error. Barclays apologised to Miss M for this and arranged for
the payment to be returned to Miss Ms bank account. Barclays also cancelled the direct
debit to ensure that the returned payment wasnt applied for again, meaning that when the
payment holiday ended and payments became due, Miss M would need to either reset the
direct debit or arrange payment by alternative means. Finally, Barclays wrote to Miss M to
confirm that her direct debit had been cancelled and explaining the actions she would need
to take when the payment holiday ended.
Unfortunately, Miss M didnt receive the letter advising that her direct debit had been
cancelled, and so expected the loan account payments to resume being taken automatically
by direct debit in November. But Miss M noticed that the November direct debit payment
hadnt been taken as she expected and so she contacted Barclays and was told that she
didnt need to make the November payment, that payments would resume in December, and
that the missed November payment would be added to the end of the loan term.
Shortly afterwards, Miss M began receiving letters from Barclays advising that she was in
arrears on her loan account. When Miss M contacted Barclays about these letters it was
initially reiterated to her that she wouldnt need to make a payment until December, but in
December Barclays changed their position and explained to Mrs M that she would need to
pay the November payment also, which was considered as having been missed such that
the loan account was in arrears.
Miss M wasnt happy about this and couldnt afford to make two loan payments in
December, so she raised a complaint. Barclays looked at Miss Ms complaint. They
acknowledged that theyd given Miss M incorrect information when theyd told her that the
November payment could be missed and that she could resume her loan repayments in
December, and they apologised to Miss M for this and offered to make a payment of £200 to
her by way of compensation for the inconvenience caused. However, Barclays confirmed
that the November payment was still considered by them as being missed and as
constituting account arrears and that it was incumbent on Miss M to clear these arrears.
Miss M wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Barclays response to
Miss Ms complaint, which included that Barclays hadnt immediately reported the November
payment as being a missed payment to the credit reference agencies so as to give Miss M
the opportunity to make the payment without her credit file being impacted, as well as the
offer of £200 compensation, already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what
had taken place, and so they didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Miss M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 March 2022 as follows:
Barclays dont dispute that they provided Miss M with incorrect information when she
contacted them to enquire about why the November payment hadnt been taken by
direct debit as she had thought it would be, and they accept that it was explained to
Miss M at that time by their agents that Miss M wouldnt need to make a November
payment and that payments would resume on her loan account in December.
It therefore doesnt feel fair to me that Barclays would later change their position on
this matter and advise Miss M that the November payment was now considered as
having been due but missed and that Miss M needed to make a payment to clear this
payment, which was now regarded as being arrears on her account. And this
especially the case given that Barclays advised Miss M of this change in position in
December, meaning that Miss M was put in the position of having two outstanding
payment due on the loan that month.
Given that these events directly follow Miss M being on a payment holiday as a result
of not being able to meet the payments due on the account, it seems unreasonable
that Barclays would then immediately put Miss M in a position where two payments
were considered as being outstanding on her loan account during a time when Miss
M was known to have been in recent financial difficulty. As such I will be provisionally
upholding this complaint in Miss Ms favour and instructing Barclays to rework Miss
Ms loan account to provide a further month of payment holiday to Miss M, in line with
what their advisors initially explained to Miss M would take place in the first instance.
Barclays may counter that they did confirm to Miss M by letter that her direct debit
had been cancelled and that Miss M therefore needed to make new arrangements
when payments resumed. But given that Miss M contacted Barclays to enquire why
the November payment hadnt been taken, it seems more likely than not to me that
Miss M wasnt didnt receive that letter as she claims and so wasnt aware of a need
to make new payment arrangements.
Had Barclays explained to Miss M when she first contacted them about this matter in
November that the November payment needed to be made, then I would almost
certainly take a different view on this matter. But Barclays told Miss M that the
payment didnt need to be made, and so its understandable to me that Miss M, at a
time of financial difficulty, might have reallocated the funds shed set aside to make
that payment, given that it had been confirmed to her by Barclays that the November
payment didnt need to be made and would be added to the end of the loan term.
It therefore doesnt feel fair or reasonable to me, as explained above, that Miss Mwould then be told the following month that, contrary to what shed initially been
informed, the November was considered as being missed and had to be made. And
while I commend Barclays for trying to provide a degree of leeway for Miss M to
make the November payment before reporting it as arrears to her credit file, I still feel
that by considering the November payment as being missed, despite acknowledging
the incorrect advice given by their agents to Miss M about this, that Barclays were
putting Miss M in a financially difficult position  which is at odds with the spirit of the
payment holidays that Miss M had only just completed.
It follows then that I will be provisionally upholding this complaint and instructing
Barclays to rework the loan account so that a further months payment holiday, for
the month of November 2020, is considered to have been applied. This additional
month of payment holiday should be applied on the same terms as the two three-
month payment holidays that had been applied previously, including that interest
would continue to accrue on the account during that time, but that arrears are not
considered to have accrued and the payment isnt reported as being missed to the
credit reference agencies.
I also feel that Barclays should make a payment of compensation to Miss M for the
upset and inconvenience this matter has caused, and I note that in their response to
Miss Ms complaint Barclays offered a compensation payment of £200 to Miss M.
This amount seems reasonable to me, given the circumstances here, and as such
Im also instructing Barclays to make a payment of £200 to Miss M by way of
compensation for the reasons previously explained. This compensation payment may
not be applied by Barclays to the balance outstanding on the loan account unless
Miss M gives Barclays her permission to do so.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Miss M and Barclays the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. Both Miss M and Barclays provided responses to my provisional decision letter for 
my consideration, and Barclays response in particular necessitated that I send a second 
provisional decisional letter to both parties, which I did on 6 April 2022.
Miss Ms response to my initial provisional decision letter included an explanation that 
Barclays had later applied a default to her account which she felt was a direct consequence 
of the events described above and a request for me to instruct Barclays to remove that 
default. 
I addressed Miss Ms concerns in this regard in my second provisional decision letter as 
follows:
I can appreciate why Miss M might want the default removed from her credit file, but 
having reviewed the account statements provided by Barclays, it seems evident that 
the default was applied by Barclays as a consequence of events that happened after 
Miss M brought her complaint to this service. I say this because while Miss M was 
disputing the need to make a payment for November 2020  which is the basis of this 
complaint  she did make her contractual payments for December 2020 and January 
2021.
However, Miss M then didnt make a payment in February 2021, and began making 
reduced monthly payments in March 2021, having enlisted the services of a debt 
charity which then proposed such a reduced monthly payment amount to Barclays. 
And while Barclays were obliged to accept the reduced monthly repayment offer 
made by the debt charity that Miss M enlisted, its also the case that Barclays were entitled to consider the account as falling further into arrears while those lower 
payments were being received.
Because of this, I dont feel that Miss M incurred a default on this account as a direct 
result of Barclays considering the November 2020 payment as being outstanding, but 
rather because of the later financial difficulties that Miss M experienced. This means 
that I wont be considering Miss Ms request to instruct Barclays to remove the 
default as she would like here as I feel that the recording of this default falls outside 
the scope of this complaint. If Miss M continues to be unhappy with the default thats 
been applied to her credit file, then she would need to raise this as a separate 
complaint with Barclays.
Miss M has also mentioned that interest was continuing to be incurred on the 
account, which hindered her attempts to reduce the balance. But the type of payment 
holidays that Miss M applied for and was granted included that interest would 
continue to be accrued on the account, and so I dont feel that Barclays acted unfairly 
by applying this interest. And I also note that Barclays stopped applying interest to 
the account when the debt charity that Miss M engaged contacted them on Miss Ms 
behalf.
In their response to my initial provisional decision letter, Barclays noted that because Miss 
Ms account has now been sold to third-party company, theyre unable to rework the account 
directly as I provisionally instructed. 
Instead, Barclays explained that they were willing to effectively write off the November 2020 
payment, reducing the balance outstanding by that payment amount, as well as to make the 
compensation payment of £200 to Miss M. I responded to Barclays suggestion in my second 
provisional decision letter as follows:
This feels fair to me, and its within the spirit of what I instructed in my provisional 
decision. However, because Barclays offer here is technically different to that which I 
provisionally instructed, Im obliged to issue a second provisional decision to 
formalise that offer. Additionally, I will also be provisionally instructing Barclays to 
arrange for the credit file reporting to be amended so that the November 2020 
payment isnt showing as being missed.
All of which means that the conclusion of my second provisional decision letter was that I 
would still be provisionally upholding this complaint, albeit on a slightly different basis to that 
explained in my initial provisional decision letter, as follows:
Barclays must arrange for the outstanding balance on Miss Ms account to be 
reduced by £237.13  effectively writing off the November 2020 payment.
Barclays must also arrange for the credit file reporting to be amended so that the 
November 2020 payment is no longer showing as being missed but is reported as 
the same status as the previous months when the payment holiday was in force.
Finally, Barclays must make a payment of £200 to Miss M to compensate her for the 
trouble and upset that shes incurred here. This payment may not be applied to 
reduce the balance outstanding on the account unless Miss M gives her permission 
to do so.
In my second provisional decision letter, I again gave both Miss M and Barclays the 
opportunity to respond and provide any comments or new information they might wish me to 
consider before I moved to final decision.Both Miss M and Barclays confirmed that they were happy to accept my decision as outlined 
in the second provisional decision letter, and so I can confirm that my final decision will be 
that I am upholding this complaint in Miss Ms favour on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Barclays must arrange for the outstanding balance on Miss Ms account to be 
reduced by £237.13  effectively writing off the November 2020 payment.
Barclays must also arrange for the credit file reporting to be amended so that the 
November 2020 payment is no longer showing as being missed but is reported as 
the same status as the previous months when the payment holiday was in force.
Finally, Barclays must make a payment of £200 to Miss M to compensate her for the 
trouble and upset that shes incurred here. This payment may not be applied to 
reduce the balance outstanding on the account unless Miss M gives her permission 
to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman