DRN-3199247
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV has withdrawn their 
hospital income plan from the market.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, and for these 
reasons:
The policy terms and conditions say that CIGNA may cancel this policy if it gives 30 
days notice, and it takes exactly the same action on every other hospital income plan 
policy it issued at the same time as this one.
CIGNA has made the decision to withdraw cover for all its hospital income plans as it 
has decided to exit this particular market. Thats a commercial decision in which I 
cant interfere. That doesnt mean that CIGNA has stopped trading as a company, or 
no longer offers any health insurance products at all.
CIGNA initially wrote to Mr and Mrs A to notify them of its decision in November 
2019. Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs A say they didnt receive this letter. Though I see 
that CIGNA again wrote to Mr and Mrs A in April 2020 about the matter. This was 
more than the 30 days notice that CIGNA was required to give under the policy, as 
Mr and Mrs As cover didnt end until June 2020.
Whilst I recognise that Mr and Mrs A are disappointed with CIGNAs decision, Im 
satisfied it was entitled under the policy terms to withdraw cover. As this decision 
impacted all policyholders, Im also satisfied that it didnt treat Mr and Mrs A unfairly.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman
