DRN-4321880
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Embark Services Limited delayed the completion of a new lease 
agreement for the commercial property held in his self-invested personal pension. Mr T has 
claimed that hes suffered a financial loss as a result.
What happened
Mr T holds a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). Embark is the administrator of Mr Ts 
SIPP. 
Mr Ts SIPP owns a commercial property. The first floor in the property was let to a software 
company, but the ground floor was unoccupied. Mr T was the Chief Executive Officer of the 
software company that held the tenancy for the first floor in the SIPP property. This meant 
that the tenant was a connected party. 
On 13 October 2021 Mr T emailed Embark to say that due to growth in the tenants 
business, they now wanted to take a lease against the whole property.
On 22 October 2021 Embark responded to Mr T. They said that theyd consulted their legal 
team and had been told that there were two options on how the tenants existing lease could 
be changed. Embark gave details of these two options as follows:
Option 1
A Deed of Variation could be put in place to extend the area of the current lease to include 
the ground floor. When a Deed of Variation increases the area being covered by the lease, 
the Deed in law acts as a surrender and regranting of the current lease. As the tenant is a 
connected party, to comply with HMRC regulations we would require a new market rental 
valuation from a MRICS surveyor for the whole property. This would set the rental for the 
lease.
Option 2
A second lease is granted for the ground floor. A market rental valuation from a MRICS 
surveyor for ground floor would be required as the tenant is connected. 
On 15 November 2021 Embark emailed Mr T to ask if there was any update on the proposed 
change to the tenants lease. In this email Embark also asked some questions about the 
condition of the ground floor in the SIPP property. Mr T responded to answer Embarks 
questions about the ground floor but didnt give any further update on the proposed change 
in the lease.
On 28 March 2022 Mr Ts lawyers emailed both Mr T and Embark with questions they had 
on the SIPP property to help them with drafting the new lease. Embark responded to these 
questions on 10 April 2022.
On 11 April 2022 Mr Ts lawyers sent Embark a Terms of Engagement document for them to 
sign. On 12 April 2022 Embark asked the lawyers if Mr T had already signed the Terms of 
Engagement and the lawyers replied on the same day to say that Mr T hadnt signed the 
document. 
On 13 April 2022 Embark sent the Terms of Engagement document to Mr T for him to sign. 
Embark then chased Mr T for the return of the signed document on 2 May 2022 and 13 June 
2022.
On 20 June 2022 Mr T replied to Embark to say that he had been unwell but would now sign 
the Terms of Engagement document issued by the lawyers. Embark then received back the 
signed document from Mr T on 19 July 2022, which they then countersigned on 28 July 2022 
and sent to Mr Ts lawyers on 2 August 2022.
On 12 August 2022 Mr Ts lawyers sent Embark documentation to surrender the tenants 
existing lease and to then set up a new lease which covered the whole property. The new 
lease was to be for a ten year term. This documentation was sent to Embark so that they 
could check and approve it. 
However, Embark didnt respond to the lawyers about this documentation until 17 October 
2022. They then raised some queries on the new lease, which the lawyers answered on 18 
October 2022. On 20 October 2022 Embark told Mr Ts lawyers that they were happy to 
proceed with the new lease but at the same time asked if any premium was payable on the 
surrender of the existing lease.
On 24 October 2022 Mr Ts lawyers replied to Embark to say that no premium was payable 
on the surrender of the lease and again sought Embarks agreement for the new lease to 
proceed. Embark then re-confirmed to Mr Ts lawyers on 10 November 2022 that they were 
happy to proceed with the new lease. On 14 November 2022 the lawyers told Embark that 
the lease documents would be sent to Mr T for signing.
On 29 November 2022 Embark emailed Mr Ts lawyers to ask for an update on the new 
lease. Mr Ts lawyers replied to Embark on 1 December 2022 to say that the lease was 
being re-drafted to change the term from ten years to seven years.
On 29 September 2022 Mr T emailed Embark to complain about the time taken for the new 
lease to be set up. Mr T claimed that because the rent payable under the new lease was 
higher than the rent paid under the old lease his SIPP had missed out on income due to 
Embarks delays.
Embark responded to Mr Ts complaint on 25 October 2022. Embark admitted that it had 
taken them too long to respond to the lawyers email of 12 August 2022, when they had 
been sent the new lease together with documentation for surrendering the old lease. Embark 
hadnt responded to the lawyers email until 17 October 2022.Embark upheld Mr Ts complaint and offered him £50 in compensation for their delay. But 
Embark didnt agree that their delay had meant that Mr Ts SIPP had missed out on any 
higher rental income.  
In their response letter Embark said: However, I do not foresee any issues with the lease 
being backdated to an agreed date of entry, provided this is not prior to 12 August 2022 
(when we first received the documentation for review). This will allow the revised rent to be 
paid to the SIPP, as intended, and at no detriment to the SIPP because of the administrative 
delays caused by us, or external parties.
Mr T wasnt happy with Embarks response. He therefore brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators reviewed Mr Ts complaint and 
concluded that the complaint should be upheld and that Embark should pay Mr T £150 to 
compensate him for the delay theyd caused between 12 August 2022 and 17 October 2022. 
The Investigator didnt think that Embark could be held responsible for any loss of income to 
Mr Ts SIPP. 
Mr T accepted the Investigators view but Embark have not responded to the view. Mr Ts 
complaint has therefore been brought to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In October 2021 Mr T contacted Embark to ask about the existing tenants taking a new lease 
on the whole property owned by his SIPP. Embark replied to Mr T and gave him details of 
two options open to him and to explain that as the tenant was a connected party then to 
comply with HMRC regulations they would need a new market rental valuation for the whole 
property. Embark asked Mr T for an update on the lease change in November 2021, but Ive 
not seen any evidence to show that Mr T provided any update at that time.
I think that action taken by Embark in their reply to Mr Ts email of 13 October 2021 was 
reasonable. They replied within seven working days, which I think is reasonable, and gave 
Mr T details on options open to him. 
When Embark received the Terms of Engagement document from Mr Ts lawyers in April 
2022 they forwarded the document to Mr T for signing within two working days. They also 
chased Mr T for the return of the signed document on two occasions. 
I have not seen any evidence to show that Embark were responsible for the delay in Mr T 
not returning the signed Terms of Engagement document until 19 July 2022. Instead, the 
delay appears to be due to Mr T being unwell. 
I therefore dont think that Embark were responsible for any delay before they received the 
documentation from Mr Ts lawyers to surrender the existing lease and to set up a new lease 
on 12 August 2022. Embark didnt respond to Mr Ts lawyers until 17 October, which was 
over two months after theyd received the lawyers email.
I think that this time period is unreasonable and Embark have admitted that it took them too 
long to respond to the lawyers email of 12 August 2022.
Once Embark responded to the lawyers on 17 October 2022 they confirmed on 20 October 
2022 that they were happy to proceed with the new lease but raised a question about a 
lease surrender premium. On receiving a reply on their question from Mr Ts lawyers Embark re-confirmed that they were happy for the lease to proceed on 10 November 2022. 
I think that the actions that Embark took after they had responded to Mr Ts lawyers on 17 
October 2022 were reasonable. I therefore dont think that Embark were responsible for any 
further delays after theyd replied to Mr Ts lawyers on 17 October 2022. They also asked Mr 
Ts lawyers for an update in November 2022 and were only then told that the term of the new 
lease was being changed. 
Mr T has claimed that his SIPP had missed out on rental income because of the delays 
caused by Embark. This is because the rent paid by the tenants under the new lease 
agreement was more than the rent paid under the old lease.
However, Embark have said above that they dont foresee any issues with the lease being 
backdated to an agreed date of entry, provided this is not before 12 August 2022. Theyve 
also said that this would then allow the higher rent under the new lease to be paid as 
intended.
I think that Embark are saying that by backdating the new lease to the earliest date that they 
received documentation from Mr Ts lawyers (12 August 2022) then Mr Ts SIPP wont lose 
out on any of the higher rental income under the new lease.
I also think that there were other factors that delayed the completion of the lease that 
Embark were not responsible for. The Terms of Engagement document was not signed and 
returned by Mr T until 19 August 2022 and when Embark asked for an update on the new 
lease at the end of November 2022 they were then told that the term of the new lease was 
being changed.
I therefore dont think that Embark are responsible for any possible loss of income to Mr Ts 
SIPP.
However, I think that Embark were responsible for the delay in responding to Mr Ts lawyers 
email between 12 August 2022 and 17 October 2022.  
I think that Embark should compensate Mr T for the distress and inconvenience that he 
suffered as a result of this delay. Embark have offered Mr T £50 in compensation for their 
delay but I think that £150 is more reasonable in this case.
Putting things right
Embark need to pay Mr T £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
suffered as a result of their errors. Embark then dont need to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding Mr Ts complaint against Embark Services Limited 
and that Embark Services Limited now need to compensate Mr T as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman