DRN-2903421
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank unfairly recorded 
details of a payment arrangement and arrears on her credit file. 
What happened
Mrs J has a loan with Yorkshire Bank. In October 2019 Mrs J called Yorkshire Bank and 
explained that from December 2019 her income was going to reduce to around £150 per 
month as she was about to start maternity leave. Mrs J asked Yorkshire Bank for help as 
she couldnt maintain the normal monthly payment. 
Yorkshire Bank completed an income and expenditure assessment based on the figures Mrs 
J gave it and found she had £50 a month left after commitments were paid. Yorkshire Bank 
agreed Mrs J couldnt afford to maintain her contractual £286 monthly payment and agreed 
to accept £30 a month for six months and place interest and charges on hold. During the 
call, the call handler said the payment arrangement would be reported to the credit reference 
agencies. 
Mrs J complained but Yorkshire Bank didnt agree it had made a mistake or treated her 
unfairly. Yorkshire Bank said the call handler and follow up letter both confirmed information 
about the payment arrangement could be recorded with the credit reference agencies. 
Mrs J has told us she went on to borrow money from a family member to clear the arrears. 
Mrs J referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Mrs J 
explained shed received advice that said Yorkshire Banks actions whilst she was on 
maternity were against the rules. The investigator thought Yorkshire Bank had dealt with Mrs 
Js complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mrs J asked to appeal, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs J has told us Yorkshire Bank offered inappropriate assistance when it discussed the 
payment arrangement with her as she was due to start her maternity leave. Ive looked at the 
industry rules and guidance that sets out how businesses should treat customers when they 
ask for help. Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs J but I havent been persuaded the offer of a 
payment arrangement was unfair in this case. Ill explain why. 
Ive listened to the call from October 2019 and Mrs J explained her income was due to drop 
to £150 but her monthly loan payment was £286. After completing the income and 
expenditure assessment, Mrs J said she could afford to make repayments of £30. Both Mrs 
J and Yorkshire Bank agreed Mrs J couldnt afford to maintain the contractual monthly 
payment. 
The call handler specifically asked whether Mrs J had any other sources of income and she 
confirmed she was only going to be receiving maternity pay of £150 a month. Whilst I 
understand Mrs J is upset the arrangement has impacted her credit file, based on the 
information she gave to Yorkshire Bank, her options appear to have been limited. Im 
satisfied offering a payment arrangement was a fair approach in the circumstances.
The call handler told Mrs J the arrangement could be reported on her credit file and the 
follow up letter Yorkshire Bank sent gave the same information. I understand Mrs J feels the 
information concerning the potential impact to her credit file shouldve been clearer. But each 
credit reference agency reports information in a slightly different way and each payment 
arrangement will be different, depending on the consumers circumstances. Im satisfied 
Yorkshire Bank gave sufficient notice the payment arrangement could be reported. 
Ive looked at the industry regulations and guidance surrounding how businesses should 
treat customers who are experiencing financial difficulties. The rules say businesses should 
treat customers experiencing financial difficulties with forbearance. The guidance also says 
businesses can report information about payment arrangements and missed payments to 
the credit reference agencies. Im satisfied Yorkshire Bank acted in line with industry 
guidance. 
In her response to the investigator, Mrs J said she was in the same position she wouldve 
been in had no payment arrangement been agreed. But after Mrs J contacted Yorkshire 
Bank for assistance it stopped applying interest and charges to her account and placed 
collections activity on hold. In my view, Yorkshire Bank did provide a fair level of 
forbearance. 
Ive looked at the credit file records Mrs J has sent us and they accurately show how arrears 
on the loan account grew over time until they were cleared. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs J as I understand she feels Yorkshire Bank provided misleading 
information, but I think it treated her fairly. Yorkshire Bank assessed Mrs Js circumstances, 
agreed to accept a significantly lower payment for an extended period, suspended interest 
and charges and placed collections activity on hold. Yorkshire Bank also agreed to relook at 
the situation after six months with a view to extending the arrangement. Whilst I appreciate 
the payment arrangement and account status was reported to the credit reference agencies, 
Im satisfied Yorkshire Banks approach was fair and reasonable. 
As Im satisfied Yorkshire Bank dealt with Mrs Js complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman