DRN-3835512
The complaint
Mr K complains that Tesco Underwriting Ltd (Tesco) is taking too long to progress his 
jewellery theft claim under his home insurance policy. Mr K additionally complains that as 
Tesco has taken so long, it should refund him some of his premiums. 
Tesco is the underwriter for the policy and is responsible for this complaint. Where Tesco 
appointed other providers on its behalf, I will generally still refer to Tesco in my decision. 
What happened
Mr K has home insurance policy with Tesco. This started on 2 September 2021. Amongst 
other things, it provided cover for four specified items of jewellery. This were recorded on the 
schedule of insurance as follows: 
22ct gold necklace worth £3,093
22ct gold chain worth £3,000
22ct gold bracelet worth £2,283
22ct gold chain worth £3,000
The schedule of insurance recorded two previous theft claims. One on 26 May 2018 for a 
claim amount of £4,622. And one on 24 August 2017 for a claim amount of £2,152.
Mr K reported the theft of the four specified items of jewellery to Tesco on 21 February 2022. 
He said they were stolen when he was travelling back from a wedding the same day. He 
said that hed briefly fallen asleep on the tube and that a bag containing the four items of 
jewellery had been taken. 
Mr K said he reported the theft to the police the same day. But didnt get a crime number for 
a couple of weeks. And said that the police had incorrectly referred to him as she in their 
claim report, even though he had been the one who had reported the crime.
The police couldnt investigate the crime as there was no CCTV footage and no way of 
identifying the thief. So there was no way for Mr K to proof the loss. Instead, Tesco asked 
him to provide proof of ownership of the items he said had been stolen. 
Mr K provided photographs of the stolen jewellery and two valuation letters from 2018 which 
detailed the value of two of the items. But Tesco asked him for either bank statements or 
receipts to prove his ownership. It said his claim would be put on hold until it received further 
evidence.
Tesco said it appointed its approved contractors to assist in the validation of the claim on 24 
February 2022. But that it received a report from them on 7 March 2022 in which they 
recommended that it appointed a loss adjuster to assist in the claim validation. It said it 
appointed its loss adjusters the same day.
I understand that Tesco sent its loss adjusters to visit Mr K on 14 March 2022. It chased its 
loss adjusters for an update on 19 April 2022. 
Tesco told Mr K on 20 April 2022 that it was still waiting for a copy of the police report. It also 
said that the four photographs and the valuation certificate that Mr K had provided so far 
werent enough to adequately prove his ownership of the stolen items. It asked Mr K to try to 
find further supporting documentation. It said this should include original purchase 
receipts/bank statements and photographs of the jewellery items being worn over a period of 
time. 
Mr K told Tesco that he didnt have the information itd asked for. He felt that the 
photographs and valuation certificate hed sent should be sufficient evidence. He said that as 
the jewellery had been given to him by his deceased grandmother he couldnt provide any 
other proof of ownership like bank statements or receipts.
Mr K also felt that the policys terms and conditions didnt require him to provide bank 
statements or photographs of him wearing the jewellery. 
Mr K complained to Tesco. He felt hed provided enough proof and said he took it personally 
that it needed bank statements and receipts of the jewellery that his grandmother had got for 
him. He also felt hed made it clear to Tesco from the start that the stolen jewellery had been 
gifted to him. Mr K felt that he was paying Tesco for insurance which he wasnt getting any 
benefit from. So he said he should get his premiums back.
Tesco issued its final response to the complaint on 22 April 2022. It felt it had acted fairly. It 
said that in order to move the claim along, it had requested the police report which it would 
review. 
Mr K was unhappy with Tescos response, so brought his complaint to this service in late 
April 2022. He felt hed been mis-sold the insurance policy. 
Tescos claim notes show that it called its loss adjusters on 20 May 2022. They told Tesco 
that they now had the police report. Tesco also updated Mr K on this date.  It also told him 
that if he couldnt provide proof of ownership the claim would remain on hold. And that if he 
was unable to provide any further proof his claim wouldnt be paid. 
Mr K sent more photographs to Tesco that he felt showed proof of ownership. But Tesco still 
didnt consider that hed sent it sufficient proof. So he brought a second complaint to this 
service in June 2022. He felt Tesco was unfairly delaying his claim. 
Tesco issued its final response to this complaint on 7 June 2022. It felt it had acted fairly. It 
said it had continued to validate the claim without delay. But that sometimes information itd 
requested from third parties  for example, the police  could take a little while to obtain.
Unhappy with Tescos response, Mr K brought a further complaint to this service on 9 June 
2022 about the time it was taking to handle his claim. 
Tesco asked this service to consider both of Mr Ks complaints together. 
Our investigator felt that the combined complaint should be upheld. He felt it was 
unreasonable to expect Mr K to have bank statements or receipts for the gifted jewellery. 
And he felt that the proof of ownership Mr K had provided so far was in line with the policy 
terms and conditions, particularly in respect of the items referred to in the valuation letter. 
Therefore he felt that Tesco couldve progressed Mr Ks claim sooner based on the evidence 
hed already provided.
To put things right, our investigator felt that Tesco should reach its outcome on the claim 
based on the existing evidence and let Mr K know as soon as possible whether it accepts or rejects the claim. He also felt that Tesco should pay Mr K £100 to compensate him for the 
delayed resolution of his claim.
Tesco didnt agree with our investigator. It said its remaining investigations werent limited to 
its requests to Mr K for further proof of ownership. But that it also still needed to consider 
evidence from many other sources before it could finalise its investigation.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review. 
I issued my provisional decision on 9 November 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. I dont agree with our investigator 
that Tesco acted unreasonably when it asked for further proof of ownership from Mr K for the 
four stolen items. And I dont agree that Tesco has delayed the progress of the claim, as I 
consider that its investigations have been reasonable and conducted in a timely manner. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr K. Ill explain the reasons for my conclusion. 
Mr K brought his complaint to this service before Tesco had completed its investigations into 
the theft. So Tesco has yet to make a final decision on the claim.
Mr K feels that Tesco are taking too long to make a decision. And he doesnt know how 
much longer it might take. He said hed been waiting for a decision for eight months but it 
was still at the investigation stage. He said he brought his complaint for an ombudsmans 
decision in the hope that he could get a decision more quickly. He said the claim was 
affecting his already poor mental health.
Tesco told this service that its remaining investigations werent limited to its outstanding 
requests to Mr K for further evidence that he had owned the missing items before the theft. It 
said that it still needed to consider evidence from many other sources before it could finalise 
its investigation. 
After hed issued his view on the complaint, our investigator asked Tesco on 23 September 
2022 when it felt it would be in a position to make a decision on the claim. He felt that Mr K 
wasnt in a position to provide any further proof of ownership. 
Tesco told this service that its loss adjusters had made a request to Mr Ks previous insurer 
for information relating to two previous theft claims. It repeated its point that it needed 
information from a number of other sources before it could complete the validation of the 
claim. But said that once its loss adjusters had received the requested information from Mr 
Ks previous insurer it might be in a position to give him its final decision. Tesco said that if it 
gave its final decision before it had all the information it needed, the investigation wouldnt 
have been thoroughly carried out.
Once the complaint had been passed to me in early November 2022, I again asked Tesco if 
it had been able to complete its investigations.  And, if it hadnt, how long it anticipated the 
outstanding investigations would take.
Tesco said on 7 November 2022 that its investigations were still not complete. It said its loss 
adjusters had written to Mr K on 21 October 2022 to outline a number of inconsistencies and 
unsatisfactory elements on his claim. It had asked for a full written response from Mr K, 
which he sent on 28 October 2022. Tesco said that its loss adjusters had noted Mr Ks written response, and were in the 
process of arranging a further meeting with him to discuss further. It said that it would 
attempt to get a timescale for that meeting, and when it would be likely to get its loss 
adjusters findings from that meeting.
I need to decide if Tesco has treated Mr K fairly and reasonably in the handling of his claim. I 
also need to consider if it has acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Tesco has explained that it still has a number of concerns over the claim which it wants to 
investigate further. 
All insurers have a duty to investigate claims to ensure they are genuine. And what that 
means in each case will vary depending on the claim. Those investigations can seem 
invasive and unfair to the policyholder, and they can take time as well. But, an insurer 
making enquiries like this is a natural and necessary part of many claims. From what Ive 
seen, Tescos concerns are reasonable under the circumstances of the claim. 
So I need to decide whether the time Tesco has taken to carry out its investigations is 
reasonable. 
I also need to consider what the results of the remaining investigations will show. If I decide 
that they wont help clear up Tescos concerns, I may think they were unreasonable. But if I 
consider that they should help Tesco to fairly decide whether the claim is genuine or not then 
I may conclude that its fair for them to continue.
From what Ive seen, there are a number of inconsistencies in Mr Ks claim. So I understand 
why Tesco decided to investigate it further. 
I next considered whether Tesco had taken reasonable steps to progress its investigation. 
I can see that Tescos enquiries have taken a while to progress, so I do understand Mr Ks 
frustration here. But I note that it took several weeks to obtain the police report. And when 
this was received, it led to further questions, which I dont believe have yet been fully 
answered. Im satisfied that the police report and the follow-up questions were required so 
that a full understanding of the circumstances of the claim could be gained. And that this is 
part of the reason that the investigations are still ongoing.
Other aspects of this claim have also led to Tesco needing to widen its investigations to 
consider a previous similar claim that Mr K made in 2018 with another insurer. This has also 
required input from a third party, lengthening the time the investigations would take.
Ive also seen Mr Ks responses, sent on 28 October 2022, to Tescos loss adjusters 
questions. And Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the loss adjusters to want to discuss 
Mr Ks responses further with him.
Although in in an ideal world the investigation wouldve progressed more quickly, I havent 
seen that Tesco caused any unreasonable or avoidable delays during this process. And I 
dont consider that any part of the investigation could fairly have been avoided. 
I also considered Mr Ks complaint that Tesco shouldve accepted the information hed 
already provided as proof of ownership of the four items of jewellery.
Mr K said that the 2018 valuation certificate hed provided contained two of the jewellery 
items. And that hed also provided many photographs of him wearing one of the chains in 
2020. He felt hed provided enough proof of ownership. He said that the policy booklet stated that a valuation certificate is proof of ownership and so are photographs. He said it didnt 
state that the photographs must be of the jewellery being worn. He felt that the policys terms 
and conditions didnt require him to provide bank statements or photographs of him wearing 
the jewellery. 
Tesco said that Mr K hadnt yet provided enough information to adequately prove his 
ownership of the stolen items. It felt that some of the photos that had been sent werent the 
originals, as their filenames had been changed. This led them to request additional 
evidence. 
The claim conditions under the policy are as follows:
6. You must cooperate with us fully in providing information and assistance to investigate 
and validate your claim. We will require proof of ownership and/or proof of loss (e.g. receipts, 
valuations, photographs, instruction booklets and guarantee cards). We will only ask you to 
provide information and assistance that is relevant to your claim.
I agree with Mr K that, under the circumstances of his claim, he shouldnt be required to 
produce bank statements for any of the jewellery which was gifted to him. Tesco has told this 
service that its request for bank statements is normal practice. But Mr K is required, under 
the terms of the policy, to prove that he owned the claimed for items. The claim conditions 
require him to prove that ownership through various documents such as valuations and 
photographs. 
From what Ive seen, although Mr K has provided certain documents which he feels should 
be enough to prove his ownership of the stolen jewellery, Im not persuaded that he has. I 
say this because the 2018 valuation certificate only shows that he owned the two pieces of 
jewellery it covered at that point, not four years later. And Im also satisfied that, because 
some of the photographs Mr K has submitted dont appear to be the originals, they also dont 
provide enough evidence of ownership.
I note that, as part of their recent investigations, Tescos loss adjusters have told Mr K that it 
would help if he could obtain photos, with metadata intact, of his sister wearing the jewellery 
at the wedding he said theyd both attended just before the theft. I consider that this is a 
reasonable request under the circumstances. This is because theres no way for Tesco or Mr 
K to prove his loss, given that the police were unable to investigate the theft in any way. So I 
consider it reasonable that Tesco has asked for further information from Mr K to prove his 
ownership of the stolen items. 
Overall, Ive found no evidence that Tesco unfairly delayed the claim. And Im satisfied that 
its requests for further proof of ownership were reasonable under the circumstances. I also 
agree that if Tesco was required to give its final decision before it had all the information it 
needed, the investigation wouldnt have been thoroughly carried out, which wouldnt be fair 
to Mr K. 
Therefore, I dont intend to uphold the complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Tesco agreed with my provisional decision. 
Mr K didnt agree with my provisional decision. He made the following points: 
He said Tescos loss adjuster had recently been to his home to take another 
statement. And that the loss adjuster had told him not to appeal. He also said that the 
loss adjuster had said Mr K had a condition called ADHD, which he doesnt have. Mr K said that the loss adjuster had told him that as hed had a similar jewellery theft 
claim, probability suggested that the same thing hadnt happened again. He felt it 
was unfair for Tesco to look at probability instead of facts, and everything hed 
provided to evidence his claim. 
Mr K said hed told the loss adjuster that Tesco could just pay out on the items it had 
evidence for. 
Mr K still felt that Tesco was trying to prolong its decision on his claim to avoid paying 
out. He didnt know what else Tesco would need and how much longer its 
investigation would take. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr K has made allegations about the loss adjuster, his original complaint to this 
service was that Tesco was taking too long to progress his jewellery theft claim. As I dont 
consider that the alleged behaviour wouldve impacted the progress of the claim, Ive not 
asked Mr K for any evidence about his allegations. And Ive not asked Tesco to ask its loss 
adjuster for his version of events. However, Mr K can make a separate complaint about the 
loss adjusters behaviour if he wants to.
I can understand why Mr K feels that it was unfair for the loss adjuster to allegedly suggest 
that it was unlikely that hed been the victim of two very similar jewellery thefts. And I agree 
with him that Tesco should base its decision on the facts. But from what Ive seen, I consider 
that Tesco is taking reasonable steps to establish those facts. 
While I acknowledge that Mr K simply wants Tesco to make a decision to pay his claim, I 
remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision. Im still persuaded that  in order to 
be fair to Mr K  Tesco must be allowed to complete its full investigation. As such, I dont 
uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman