DRN-3970386
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc approved card payments that put his basic bank 
account into an unarranged overdraft. Mr S also complains that HSBC unfairly closed his 
account and recorded a default on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr S had a bank account with HSBC, there was no overdraft facility. A car hire company 
went on to charge a number of card payments to Mr S current account that took his account 
into an unarranged overdraft of around £1,000. 
HSBC went on to contact Mr S and asked him to repay the unarranged overdraft balance. In 
the period that followed, Mr S spoke with HSBC on a number of occasions and explained his 
income had been impacted by the pandemic. HSBC gave various periods of breathing space 
between 2020 and 2022 and went on to agree a payment plan with Mr S. But in February 
2022 HSBC sent Mr S a final demand that asked him to clear the outstanding balance in full. 
When the balance wasnt cleared, HSBC moved to close the account and recorded a default 
on Mr S credit file. 
Mr S complained and said HSBC shouldnt have approved payments that took him into an 
unarranged overdraft. Mr S also raised concerns that his account had been closed and a 
default recorded. HSBC sent Mr S a final response but didnt agree it had made a mistake or 
treated him unfairly. HSBC said the card payments were approved in line with the accounts 
terms and conditions. And HSBC said it had tried to support Mr S while he was experiencing 
financial difficulties but had correctly moved to close his account. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S complaint. They thought HSBC had dealt with 
Mr S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr S asked to appeal, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S account with HSBC didnt have an associated overdraft facility. But HSBC 
has pointed to the account terms and conditions. They say:
An unarranged overdraft is for emergencies. Without you asking in advance we let you 
borrow money for something specific. This includes where we let you borrow for a particular 
payment or charge, or have to return a payment that was paid into your account. You must 
get your account back in credit, or within arranged overdraft limit, as soon as possible. And 
you must always do this within 31 days if weve allowed it for a particular payment. 
Whilst I understand there was no arranged overdraft, there was provision within the terms 
and conditions that confirmed HSBC may approve payments that can cause an unarranged 
overdraft to be caused. Here, a car hire company took payments from Mr S debit card that 
were authorised. And HSBC took the decision to approve them, in line with its terms and 
conditions. So whilst I understand Mr S is unhappy the payments were approved, Im 
satisfied HSBC acted in line with the terms and conditions that governed how the account 
operated. I havent been persuaded that HSBC made a mistake or treated Mr S unfairly. 
HSBCs terms and conditions say an unarranged overdraft should be cleared within 31 days. 
But Mr S has explained he experienced financial difficulties during this period as a result of 
the pandemic. Where a customer experiences financial difficulties, wed expect a business to 
take that into account and treat them positively and sympathetically. Theres no set criteria 
for how a business should proceed but providing additional time, considering alternative 
repayment options or ensuring interest and charges are limited are all options that can be 
used. 
Ive looked at the timeline for Mr S case and can see that between 2020 and 2022 HSBC 
discuss the account with him on various occasions. When Mr S gave information about his 
circumstances, HSBC agreed to provide more time and suspend collections activity. HSBC 
also reviewed Mr S income and expenditure information on various occasions to try and get 
an understanding of his circumstances. I understand there were genuine reasons why the 
balance wasnt cleared. But Im satisfied HSBC did provide positive and sympathetic support 
to Mr S over a reasonably sustained period. 
I can see repayment plans were put in place and that Mr S did reduce the outstanding 
balance over time. But I note HSBCs letter sent to Mr S in February 2022 confirmed that 
whilst a payment plan had been put in place its recovery process would continue. And HSBC 
went on to issue default and final demand letters to Mr S asking him to clear the balance in 
full to avoid default. That step wasnt taken until March 2022, after a reasonably long period 
giving time for Mr S to repay the outstanding balance. 
Mr S has told us he didnt receive HSBCs default and final demand letters. Ive looked at the 
available letters and can see all are correctly addressed. Whilst I understand Mr S doesnt 
recall receiving the letters, Im satisfied they were sent by HSBC as claimed. And Im 
satisfied the letters were sent after a reasonable period was given to repay the outstanding 
balance. 
As Mr S wasnt in a position to clear the balance, Im of the view it was reasonable for HSBC 
to review his account and take the decision to close it. I accept that led to a default being 
recorded on Mr S credit file, but Im satisfied it accurately reflects the circumstances under 
which his account was closed. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S but as Im satisfied HSBC dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman