DRN-3330122
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about the way Fairmead insurance Limited handled her claim.
What happened
Mrs T had an insurance policy providing unemployment cover, underwritten by Fairmead. 
This would pay a benefit if Mrs T became involuntarily unemployed.
In April 2020, Mrs T was put on furlough leave and in June 2020, her employer confirmed 
she would be made redundant as it was going into liquidation.
Mrs T made a claim to Fairmead which it accepted. It paid reduced benefit for April and May 
2020 as Mrs Ts income was reduced. And from June 2020 onwards, it paid her the full 
amount of the monthly benefit she had selected; £1,750 per month. The claim was paused 
as Mrs T gave birth in December 2020.
Prior to this, Mrs T had called Fairmead to ask how her pregnancy would affect her claim. 
Fairmead said it would suspend the claim for a total of eight weeks and would then call Mrs 
T back after this time. But it failed to do so and so Mrs T had to call and chase it for a 
response. 
When Mrs T spoke to Fairmead in early 2021, it told her she could no longer continue her 
claim as the claim had been paused for too long. It said the claim could only be paused for a 
maximum of six weeks and so the claim couldnt be re-started. Mrs T complained and when 
she didnt receive a reply within eight weeks, she referred her complaint to this service.
Whilst the complaint was waiting to be investigated, Fairmead sent its final response to Mrs 
T. It apologised for the information given to her about the maximum time the claim could be 
paused as this meant that Mrs T couldnt make an informed decision about whether to look 
for work. It offered £150 compensation, reinstated the claim and backdated payments to 
January 2021. It also agreed that it would not deduct any maternity payments Mrs T had 
received, totalling over £3,000. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found Fairmeads offer was fair.
Mrs T disagreed and in summary, said:
Her mortgage payment break and the resulting increase in interest payable hadnt 
been taken into account.
Fairmead had paid a lower benefit when she was on furlough without explaining this.
Her complaint points havent been properly or fully addressed.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that Fairmeads offer to resolve the complaint is a fair one and so I 
wont be asking it to do anything further. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy defines monthly benefit and says: 
If your gross monthly income reduces we may reduce your monthly benefit.
The policy defines short time working hours as:
For employed policyholders only, where your employer reduces your contractual 
working time, which results in a reduction in pay.
Section 5 of the policy confirms an employment claim can be made if:
Your employment ends unexpectedly and the circumstances of your employment 
are beyond your control
You are employed and your employer places you on short time working hours
Under when we wont pay unemployment benefit the policy says:
we wont pay benefit if:you are on maternity leave and receiving statutory 
maternity pay or maternity allowance, unless you are available for work and you give 
us documentation, when requested which demonstrates you are seeking work 
relevant to your normal occupation and your doctor has confirmed that you are fit for 
work.
There is no dispute that Fairmead gave Mrs T incorrect information or that she had to take a 
mortgage payment break between December 2020 and May 2021. And Im sorry to hear that 
Mrs T went through a difficult and challenging time. 
The disagreement and outstanding issues that I need to decide relate to the level of benefit 
and compensation Fairmead has paid for the impact of its error.
The level of benefit is set out in the contract between Mrs T and Fairmead which explains 
short time hours and the monthly benefit payable. 
The maximum Mrs T would be entitled to would be 365 days and the maximum 
monthly benefit Mrs T would be entitled to is £1,750 per month as confirmed in the 
insurance policy schedule. 
Mrs T received £1,400 for April and May and £1,750 pr month between June and 
November. Whilst she was on furlough, Fairmead calculated a reduced benefit as 
she was effectively on short time working hours, as set out in the policy.Her claim was reinstated from January 2021 when she was paid £1,750 again. But 
this wasnt paid until May 2021. So she was without money from December 2020 to 
May 2021.
Mrs T was receiving maternity allowance and she paused her mortgage payments. 
This has increased her mortgage balance and the amount of interest payable over 
the life of the mortgage. Maternity allowance is treated as income
I have to consider all of the surrounding circumstances. When Mrs T received her 
backdated payment from Fairmead, its possible that she could have made 
overpayments to bring her mortgage balance back down and reduce her interest. I 
dont think its fair to calculate interest payable over the life of the mortgage. Mrs Ts 
circumstances may change again which may have an impact on her mortgage. So I 
have considered the specific time period in which Mrs T was without the money.
Mrs T says that if Fairmead had given her correct information, she would have 
started looking for work in January 2021 and continued claiming unemployment 
benefit. Had she done that, Fairmead would have deducted any maternity allowance 
from her benefit amount. And so she would have been financially worse off.
In relation to the £150 compensation to apologise for the incorrect information, I think 
this is fair and reasonable considering the overall remedy and benefit amount paid to 
Mrs T. Ive also considered whether interest should have been payable but due to the 
additional overpayment, I dont think any further compensation is fair or reasonable in 
all the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs T will be disappointed with my decision but I cant fairly ask Fairmead to pay 
her anything further. It correctly calculated the reduced benefit due whilst she was on 
furlough. And although it made a mistake when she called about the effect of maternity leave 
on her claim, I think it has appropriately remedied the situation by offering £150 
compensation, backdating and paying the claim, and not deducting any maternity allowance 
payments from the benefit due. This therefore makes up for any additional mortgage interest 
Mrs T has had to pay during the time she was without the benefit.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think Fairmeads offer is fair and so I wont be asking it to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman