DRN-3224059
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined her claim under her 
Landlords Building Insurance policy for malicious damage to her rental property.
What happened
Ms R let her property to a family from 2009 until the end of 2020 when they moved because 
they couldnt afford the rent. The tenant returned the keys, but Ms R found that there was 
extensive damage caused during unauthorised changes to the internal layout of the 
property. She claimed under her Landlords insurance policy and Ageas appointed a loss 
adjuster.
On receipt of the loss adjusters report, Ageas concluded that the damage was neither 
malicious nor accidental and, except for some damage caused by an escape of water, the 
policy didnt provide cover. Before the complaint was referred to our service, Ageas also 
agreed to cover some damage that it considered to be accidental. It offered an additional 
£1,900 in respect of accidental damage to the flooring.
 
Ms R didnt agree with the way Ageas interpreted malicious damage and she raised her 
complaint. Ageas responded to say that the modifications were to benefit the tenant while 
living in the property, supported by satellite evidence of external changes dating back to 
2010, and, therefore, werent intended to cause harm or loss to Ms R. 
Ms R remained of the view that the tenant intended to make the changes so the damage 
caused by the modifications should be classed as malicious damage.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint. While he acknowledged that the 
modifications had been done badly, and Ms R would need to repair the property, he thought 
Ageas had declined the claim in line with the policy.
Ms R didnt agree. She said shed given the tenant notice to vacate just before the national 
lockdown but, because of the rules in place during that time, she had to let the tenant stay. 
Ms R said shed inspected the property three times each year up to that point, so the 
modifications mustve been done during lockdown. Therefore, she believed the tenant had 
caused the damage maliciously.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Ms R will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain.
My role is to decide whether Ageas declined Ms Rs claim fairly, for the reasons it gave and 
in line with the policy. The details of the damage and claim are well known to both parties, so 
I wont comment on every piece of information. Instead Ill address the key issues and 
reference the evidence that helps explain the reasons for my decision.
Type of damage
The extent of damage isnt disputed. The issue is whether the damage is covered under the 
policy. The policy provides cover for accidental damage and malicious damage by tenants. 
The damage was caused by tenants intentionally carrying out modifications to the property, 
so I think its reasonable to accept that the damage doesnt fall under the policy cover for 
accidental damage.
The policy doesnt define malicious damage. Ageas and Ms R have each provided various 
definitions of malicious damage but, in the absence of a policy definition, it will always be 
open to interpretation. So, Ive considered whether Ageas applied the term fairly in the 
circumstances.
The tenants made alterations to the property layout - constructed walls, built a new shower 
room and completed a garage conversion - and made changes to electrical installations. 
Theres no dispute that the changes displayed poor workmanship. The dispute is whether 
the tenant intended to cause damage that would be classed as malicious.
Ageas believed the tenant made the changes over several years with the intention of 
benefitting from the living space. Therefore, it didnt accept Ms Rs claim that the tenant 
intended to cause deliberate damage to her property. But Ms R says the changes were 
made over a matter of months during lockdown, with the intention of causing deliberate 
damage.
The satellite images dont provide any conclusive evidence that the changes dated back to 
2010. Thats because Ms R says she authorised outdoor constructions for the previous 
tenant. Looking at the photos of the internal changes, the work is quite extensive. For 
example, the garage has a lockable door to restrict access from the hallway, the floor is tiled, 
and the walls have been decorated. A new shower room has been installed, electrical 
sockets fitted, and walls have been decorated with murals. This is the type of work Id expect 
to see if someone intended to benefit from the living space rather than to intentionally cause 
damage or loss.
The fact that the work is of poor quality is not in doubt. But given the nature of the work, Im 
persuaded that Ageas fairly concluded the tenant didnt intend to cause damage resulting in 
loss to Ms R. On balance, Im satisfied that the damage was caused by poor workmanship 
rather than malicious intent.
Loss adjuster definition of malicious
Ms R was unhappy with the way the loss adjuster defined malicious damage. She said he 
told her it was when a tenant took a sledgehammer to the walls, so she pointed out that they 
wouldve had to use a hammer to effect the changes. Ageas responded to Ms Rs complaint saying the sledgehammer reference was an example of malicious damage rather than a 
definition.
As the comment was given in person, theres no way of being certain what was said. But the 
outcome isnt affected by it whether it was an example or the loss adjusters definition. 
Ageas hasnt declined the claim because the tenant didnt take a sledgehammer to the walls. 
And I dont think it would be fair to say the use of a hammer to carry out work would be 
classed as malicious damage. Ageas declined the claim because it didnt think the tenant 
intended to cause damage. 
I see no reason to require anything of Ageas in respect of this point.
Policy exclusion
Ageas said, for a claim to be covered under the malicious damage section of the policy the 
damage must be caused out of ill-will or spite against the property in question. 
Ageas also referred to the policy,
1 The Insured must take reasonable care and maintain the Residence and its 
equipment in good order and take all reasonable precautions to prevent loss or 
damage.
Here, the issue is that if Ms R had completed regular checks, the damage wouldve been 
noticed sooner. Ms R complains that Ageas didnt even ask her to evidence her inspections 
to prove her claim. She said she carried out at least twice-yearly checks, annual boiler 
checks, replacement of goods, and carried out repairs, so she maintains that the 
modifications were done between her last visit in early 2020 and the end of tenancy in 
November 2020. I understand she thinks the modifications were done out of spite because 
she served notice prior to lockdown.
Ive thought carefully about this point. If Ms R demonstrated that shed inspected the 
property regularly to meet the policy conditions, the outcome might be different. However, its 
a policyholders responsibility to prove they have a valid claim, so I cant reasonably hold 
Ageas responsible for not asking for the information. 
That said, I asked Ms R for the information, but she was unable to provide any evidence of 
legally required landlord safety checks or routine inspections. She says the documents were 
left with the tenant. Ms R didnt provide me with a copy of the tenancy agreement, although I 
understand the loss adjuster did receive a copy. As Ageas didnt make further comment 
about it, beyond saying it was a basic single page agreement, Im satisfied there wouldnt 
have been any contentious conditions within it. 
So, in the absence of any evidence that Ms R completed routine or legally required 
inspections, Im persuaded that it was reasonable for Ageas to reference and rely on this 
policy condition to decline her claim.
Escape of Water
I note Ageas offered to cover the cost of repairs for damage caused by a historical escape of 
water. Ms R told me that neither she nor her representative noticed the water damage during 
routine inspections. Given that Ageas considered the damage historical, and something that 
wouldve been picked up during routine inspections, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to 
offer cover for that element of the damage.
In summary, the evidence indicates that the tenants made ill-conceived alterations to the 
property during the period of their tenancy, resulting in extensive damage to Ms Rs property. I dont doubt that the result mustve caused Ms R significant distress and expense to put 
right, but Im not persuaded that Ageas did anything wrong by declining her claim for 
malicious damage.
I see no reason to ask Ageas to do any more than it already has.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman