DRN-3197458
The complaint
Miss M complains that a used car she got with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from 
FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as MotoNovo Finance) was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Miss M acquired this car in July 2018. About a year later an engine warning light came on 
because a coolant pipe was leaking and the engine had overheated. Miss M took the car to 
a main dealer for checks and the coolant pipe was replaced. Then, in June 2020, Miss M 
noticed coolant was low and had this topped up but the car wouldnt start. Diagnostic checks 
revealed no errors and the car was jump started so Miss M could drive home but it failed to 
start again the next day and had to be towed to a local garage for further investigations. 
Miss M was told the engine had to be stripped at a cost of about £2,000 and the issue might 
be a known manufacturing defect. She contacted the manufacturer and, after some further 
checks, it agreed to replace the engine and cover the cost under its recall scheme. Miss M 
got the car back on 10 September 2020. Shes unhappy that she wasnt told about the 
manufacturing fault at the outset. She lost faith in the car and took it back to the supplying 
dealer for an alternative. But shes out of pocket as a result of what happened and she wants 
MotoNovo to provide a refund of costs incurred along with compensation.
MotoNovo didnt think there was enough evidence to show that these issues were 
developing at the point of supply. It considered Miss M would need to supply more evidence 
 such as a report from an independent expert - in light of the time she had the car and the 
distance travelled. Miss M instructed an independent expert who inspected the car. He was 
satisfied there was sufficient evidence to show the engine had major failings that werent the 
fault of the user. And he confirmed with the main dealer that the manufacturer paid for the 
replacement engine.
Our investigator was satisfied the car had a fault and the manufacturer agreed to cover 
repair costs under its recall scheme for a known manufacturing defect. She thought it likely 
the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply so it was fair MotoNovo should 
reimburse Miss Ms reasonable expenses and pay compensation. The investigator wasnt 
sure if Miss M paid to have the engine stripped - but she considered this cost should be 
reimbursed if Miss M supplied documentary evidence showing that it was incurred. And she 
recommended that MotoNovo should refund the cost of repairs to the coolant system of 
£84.44 and £79.45 (in line with copy invoices supplied) plus £180 for a hire vehicle - and 
20% of each monthly payment made from August 2019 to June 2020, for impaired use. She 
also considered MotoNovo should pay Miss M £200 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, along with 8% interest on all refunds and remove any adverse information 
from her credit file.
MotoNovo didnt respond and the matter was referred to me for review. Having considered 
the available evidence I was minded to uphold the complaint. My reasons werent the same 
as the investigators so, in the interests of fairness, I issued a provisional decision dated 12 
November 2021 to let the parties see my provisional conclusions and respond (if they 
wanted to) before I made my final decision. What I decided provisionally  and why  is set 
out below. This forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete - as some 
of it is here - I make my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I consider 
what is most likely to have happened, in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
This service provides informal dispute resolution and I must take account of relevant law 
(amongst other things). Im satisfied that includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) 
here. Its not my role to apply the law, only a court can do that. I make my decision based on 
what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo supplied this car to Miss M under a HPA and it was obliged to ensure that the car 
was of satisfactory quality when she got it, under the CRA. The quality of goods includes 
things like fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects and safety 
and durability. And goods are of satisfactory quality if they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would expect taking all of the relevant circumstances into account - such 
as the price paid as well as the age and mileage (amongst other things) in the case of a 
used car.
This car was about five years old, cost just over £8,000 and had about 25,000 miles on the 
clock at the point of supply. I think a reasonable person would accept that a car of this age 
and mileage wasnt going to meet the same standards as a brand new car - as some parts 
would be worn and need to be replaced sooner or later - which is reflected in the lower price 
paid for a used vehicle.
What went wrong with the car
Ive seen an invoice from a main dealer that replaced a coolant pipe in Miss Ms car in 
August 2019. This says retail investigation: engine overheating- possibly the [relevant 
manufacturers recalled part] malfunction. Im satisfied the main dealer replaced this part at 
a cost of £84.44. It looks as if Miss M had no further issue with the car for nearly a year until 
it broke down in June 2020. Then a local garage told Miss M that the engine would need to 
be stripped at a significant cost. I can see (from email correspondence) that Miss M raised 
this with the manufacturer. And Im satisfied the engine in her car had been replaced by the 
time the independent expert saw it in September 2020 - and the main dealer confirmed then 
that the manufacturer had covered the associated cost.
Im aware (from other paperwork Ive seen) that this particular manufacturer has 
acknowledged there is a known problem with the coolant hose in some of its engines. I 
accept this doesnt mean that every breakdown involving this sort of engine must have been 
caused by this particular defect. And I havent seen anything from the manufacturer that 
expressly confirms that Miss Ms car had the relevant fault. However, I dont think cars of this 
age and mileage usually need the engine replacing. Im satisfied the independent expert 
concluded that the engine in Miss Ms car had major failings - that were not the result of her 
use. I think its reasonable to take the manufacturers decision to cover the cost of replacing 
the engine under its recall scheme into account. And, on balance, I am minded to find it is 
more likely than not Miss Ms car had a known manufacturing defect - which means it was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Putting things rightI appreciate MotoNovo considers the engine was replaced at no cost to Miss M so it 
shouldnt have to do anything else. But I dont think thats fair, in these particular 
circumstances, and Ill explain why below.
Im satisfied that Miss M was unable to drive the car for several months after it broke down in 
June 2020 and she incurred a number of expenses, as result of being supplied with this 
faulty car. Miss M has confirmed that she didnt pay to have the engine stripped and there 
wasnt any impaired use before June 2020 - so no refunds are due in relation to these. But I 
dont think theres any dispute that Miss M instructed an expert to inspect the car  which 
doesnt seem unreasonable in this situation. I understand she paid £199 for the experts 
report and I think its fair MotoNovo should refund this cost - as its outlay Miss M wouldnt 
have incurred if she hadnt been supplied with a faulty car.
Ive also seen two invoices totalling £167.89 for repairs to the coolant system (£88.44 in 
August 2019 and £79.45 in December 2020). I think its more likely than not these were 
required because the car had a manufacturing defect at the outset. And I am minded to find 
it is fair for MotoNovo to refund the associated cost. Miss M told us she also paid £50 for an 
initial check/diagnostic tests and £90 to tow the car after it broke down. I havent seen any 
related paperwork but Im minded to find MotoNovo should refund these as well  if Miss M 
is able to provide documentary evidence that the costs were incurred.
It looks as if Miss M was unable to use the car from 7 June 2020 until 10 September 2020 
due to the engine fault. Usually Id require a lender like MotoNovo to refund any monthly 
payments made during this period to reflect that loss of use. And I find it is fair that 
MotoNovo should refund monthly payments made here from 7 June 2020 - the day the car 
broke down  until (and including) 22 August 2020.
Miss M has explained that she found it very difficult to manage without transport during this 
time and she had to use taxis and other forms of public transport - or rely on lifts from friends 
and family. I dont doubt what she says, but I cant reasonably require MotoNovo to refund 
these expenses without further evidence of the actual cost incurred.
Miss M says she had to source alternative transport by mid-August 2020  as she could no 
longer rely on others for help by this point. I think thats understandable in these particular 
circumstances. Miss M has supplied paperwork to show she paid £462 for car hire from 23 
August to 9 September 2020 - in the form of two car rental agreements (dated 23 and 30 
August 2020 that record a payment of £180 each) and a credit card receipt (dated 4 
September 2020 for another £102 payment to the same rental company).
I think its reasonable to assume that Miss M wouldnt have needed to hire a car if she had 
the use of her own during this time. Im satisfied its likely these hire costs were incurred as 
the result of being supplied with a faulty car at the outset. And I am inclined to find it is 
reasonable for MotoNovo to reimburse Miss Ms hire costs from 23 August to 9 September 
2020 in the sum of £462.
I understand Miss M would like to have her monthly payments refunded as well, for this 
period (23 August to 9 September 2020). But, Im not persuaded thats fair - as it would 
mean Miss M paid nothing for transport during this time. I dont think its reasonable for Miss 
M to be out of pocket, however. And I am inclined to find it fair that she should have the cost 
of car hire refunded - rather than monthly payments - as car hire cost more over the relevant 
period.
I have no doubt it was stressful and inconvenient for Miss M when the car broke down  
especially as she had to cope without her own transport for a period. And Im minded to 
agree with the investigator that it is fair for MotoNovo to pay Miss M £200 compensation to reflect that. As far as I can see, Miss M has maintained her repayments towards the finance 
agreement throughout. But, in the event that MotoNovo has recorded any adverse 
information on her credit file, I think this should be removed.
The responses received from the parties 
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
comments or information by 26 November 2021. 
Miss M didnt object to my provisional findings but she said she wanted to try and obtain 
receipts for the additional items referred to above. And MotoNovo told us it hadnt seen the 
experts report before. 
I thought it was fair to let MotoNovo see the report (and comment further if it wanted to) so 
we supplied a copy. And I allowed both parties more time to respond to my provisional 
decision. Im satisfied both parties have now had a reasonable opportunity to send us any 
further comments or information. Miss M hasnt supplied anything else but MotoNovo objects 
to my provisional conclusions. Ive summarised what it said below. 
MotoNovo remains of the view that it shouldnt be held responsible for whats gone wrong 
with this car. It points to the cars age and mileage at the point of supply and history of 
passing MOTs with no advisories. It says Miss M acknowledged the car was fault free until 
August 2019 when the coolant pipe began leaking  and she paid for this to be fixed at a 
main dealership. MotoNovo acknowledges Miss M reported that the engine failed in June 
2020 and the car was recovered to a local garage where a compression test showed that 
one of the cylinders was losing compression. But, based on all the information available - 
including the expert evidence and the length of time Ms M had the car - MotoNovo doesnt 
think theres any evidence to suggest that the current faults were developing at the point of 
supply.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered MotoNovos submissions carefully but Im afraid nothing thats been said 
has persuaded me to change my mind. Im satisfied that MotoNovo supplied this car under a 
finance agreement and it was obliged to ensure that the car was of satisfactory quality when 
Miss M got it. 
For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I remain of the view that its more likely 
than not Miss Ms car had a known manufacturing defect that caused the issues she 
complains about here and it was probably of unsatisfactory quality when she got it. 
MotoNovo hasnt raised any objections to my specific findings above in respect of redress. I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions in the circumstances. And I find 
MotoNovo should take the steps set out below to put things right.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require FirstRand 
Bank Limited (trading as MotoNovo Finance) to:-
1. refund £199 (the cost of the independents experts report) along with £167.89 for 
repairs;2. refund the reasonable cost of initial checks/diagnostic tests and tow costs  if Miss M 
is able to provide evidence that these costs were incurred;
3. refund finance payments for the period Miss M was without a car - from 7 June 2020 
until (and including) 22 August 2020;
4. refund £462 for car hire costs incurred from 23 August 2020 until 9 September 2020;
5. pay interest on the above refunds at 8% simple a year, from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
6. pay Miss M £200 for distress and inconvenience; and
7. remove any adverse information from Miss Ms credit file.
If MotoNovo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should 
also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman