DRN-4072715
The complaint
Mr I complains about how We Fight Any Claim Ltd (WFAC) have asked him to pay a fee for 
a successful mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claim. 
What happened
Mr I said he asked WFAC in 2019 to carry out a free check to find out if hed any PPI policies 
with his lenders. But said he went direct to his lender Ill call L to make his complaint about 
PPI being mis-sold. In November 2019 Mr I said his claim was successful and he was paid 
compensation by L. He said in 2020 WFAC contacted him about making a PPI claim which 
he didnt pursue with them. But in 2022 theyd asked him to pay a fee for his successful 
claim and had sent several reminders about this. Mr I said he felt harassed by WFAC and 
complained to them.
WFAC said that while Mr I had agreed to a free PPI check being made, he hadnt agreed to 
use their claims management services. They apologised and accepted that they shouldnt 
have asked Mr I to pay their fee.
Mr I wasnt happy with their response as he said it didnt reflect the stress that theyd caused 
hm by asking for their fee to be paid. He referred his complaint  to us.
Our investigator said L had confirmed that Mr I had made his mis-sold PPI claim directly 
with them. She said while WFAC have now removed the fee as it was unjustified, they 
should also pay Mr I £100 for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused him.
WFAC didnt agree they said L hadnt told them that Mr I had brought his claim direct to 
them. So, they didnt think theyd acted unfairly in pursuing Mr I for their fee as they thought 
the success of the claim was because of the work theyd done. They said theyd removed 
the fee when they realised they didnt have the authority from Mr I to submit a letter of 
complaint. WFAC asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr I made his claim with L direct, and that WFACs fee isnt justified 
as this has been agreed by both parties. What remains in dispute and for me to decide upon 
is whether WFAC should pay Mr I redress for the distress and inconvenience he says hes 
experienced. Having done so I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
In May 2019 Mr I instructed WFAC to carry out a free check to see if hed any PPI policies. 
The letter of engagement says:
We agree to carry out a Free PPI Check to identify whether PPI has been sold to you. If we 
think PPI or a PBA has been sold to you, and if you authorise us to, we also agree to review 
the circumstances of your case and (if appropriate) make a complaint on your behalf to claim 
compensation for the mis-selling of your PPI or PBA policy.
WFAC has accepted that Mr I only agreed for them to carry out a free check and that he 
hadnt authorised them to make a complaint on his behalf to claim compensation for the mis-
selling of a PPI policy. But WFAC sent a letter of complaint to L in late August 2019 without 
Mr Is authority to do so. When WFAC asked for an update about Mr Is PPI complaint they 
found that the claim had been successful, and that L had paid Mr I compensation in 
November 2019 for this. As the claim was successful WFAC asked Mr I to pay their success 
fee for the claims management service they said theyd done for him. But this shouldnt have 
happened as Mr I hadnt authorised WFAC to submit a letter of complaint, so their fee wasnt 
justified.
I can understand WFACs saying that theyd asked Mr I to pay their success fee only after 
theyd asked for an update from L and found hed a successful claim. So, they didnt think 
theyd acted unfairly in seeking their fee. But the letter of complaint should never have been 
submitted by WFAC  to L, as Mr I hadnt authorised them to act on his behalf by providing 
their claims management service.
So, at this point, in 2019 I think Mr Is claim with WFAC should have been closed, meaning a 
fee wouldnt have been generated as the only work WFAC were authorised to do for Mr I 
was to carry out the free PPI check.
While I can see that WFAC has recognised their error in submitting the unauthorised letter of 
complaint and removed their success fee. Ive also seen the emails they sent to Mr I about 
the payment of the fee they said he owed to them. These show WFAC were asking  Mr I to 
pay a fee of more than £1,000, with several reminders about paying the fee and the 
implications of non-payment. This included legal proceedings, debt collection and adverse 
credit reporting which could impact any future credit applications Mr I made. 
Putting things right
While Im pleased WFAC has removed the fee, I think this would have been a worrying and 
stressful time for Mr I. He was being told he owed money that he didnt, and that he could be 
taken to court, be pursued by debt collectors, or prevented from acquiring future credit if he 
didnt pay. So, I agree with our investigator that Mr I should be compensated £100 for this.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask We Fight Any Claim Ltd to pay Mr I £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman