DRN-3988287
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs C have a joint account with Barclays Bank UK Plc. They complain that
Barclays wont refund them for transactions made using Mrs Cs debit card which they say
they didnt authorise.
What happened
On 24 August 2021, Mrs C says shed left her handbag in the boot of their locked car. When 
she returned to the car, she realised her handbag was stolen. She says she blocked her 
debit card using the mobile banking app and reported the theft to the police. She also had a 
debit and credit card with another bank which she says she also cancelled.
A few hours after Mrs Cs handbag was stolen, four transactions were made using her 
Barclays debit card amounting to £3,940. Mrs C said she was keeping an eye on the 
account and contacted Barclays as soon as she saw the disputed transactions had been 
made.
Mrs C asked Barclays to stop the transactions as they werent authorised by her or Mr B. 
She was unhappy that the transactions were allowed to be made when shed blocked her 
card and that Barclays wouldnt stop the transactions even though the funds hadnt left their 
account yet. Mr B and Mrs C believe the retailer is fictitious and Barclays failed to protect 
their money.
Barclays initially gave Mr B and Mrs C a temporary refund, but it was re-debited following 
their investigation. They declined the claim as they couldnt understand how a fraudster 
knew Mrs Cs Personal Identification Number (PIN) if she hadnt written it down. They said 
there were no incorrect PIN attempts and no opportunities for the PIN to be compromised. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B and Mrs C referred their complaint to our service.
Our investigator was persuaded that Mr B and Mrs C had authorised the transactions. She 
felt there wasnt a plausible explanation for how an unknown individual wouldve been able 
to guess Mrs Cs PIN on the first attempt. Mr B and Mrs C disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review their complaint.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 8 February 2023, and I made the following findings:
Ive looked at the technical evidence and Im satisfied the disputed transactions were 
properly authenticated with the payment tools provided to Mrs C. Payment tools are 
things used to access accounts and make payments that are personal to each 
customer, such as card and PIN. In this case, Mrs Cs genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transactions.
But this alone isnt enough to say Mrs C authorised the disputed transactions. Ive 
also considered her testimony and reviewed the police crime report. Having done so, 
I accept that Mrs Cs card was used without her knowledge and consent. So, I dont 
think she authorised the transactions that were made using her card on 24 August 
2021.
However, under the relevant regulations, Mrs C can still be held liable for 
unauthorised payments if she failed to keep her details, such as her PIN, secure to 
such an extent that it could be deemed as gross negligence  which I believe is the 
case here.
As explained above, Barclays have provided us with the audit reports which shows 
that Mrs Cs genuine card and PIN were used to make the transactions. While the 
card was stolen, the disputed transactions couldnt have been made without Mrs Cs 
PIN.
The records show that there were no incorrect PIN attempts. Also, Mrs Cs PIN was a 
randomly generated system PIN which was given to her in November 2019 and 
hadnt been changed to something more memorable, such as her date of birth or 
year of birth.
Ive thought about how the fraudster who obtained Mrs Cs card, couldve also gained 
her randomly generated system PIN. Mrs C has confirmed she hadnt made a written 
note of her PIN. She has told us she uses her mobile banking app to check her PIN 
as she rarely uses her Barclays debit card and PIN.
I think theres one of three possible explanations  the fraudster was able to guess 
the PIN, the fraudster learned the PIN when they saw Mrs C use her card or Mrs C 
had kept a written record of her PIN in her handbag. Ive considered the likelihood of 
each of these explanations to understand how Mrs Cs PIN couldve been 
compromised.
On balance, I think its highly unlikely for the fraudster to have guessed Mrs Cs PIN 
correctly on the very first attempt, given that there are thousands of combination 
possibilities. The audit report shows that Mrs Cs card and PIN wasnt used for 
several days prior to the disputed transactions. So, the fraudster who stole Mrs Cs 
handbag didnt have any opportunities to have learnt Mrs Cs PIN by looking over her 
shoulder while she used her card and PIN.
Having safely ruled out the possibilities that the fraudster correctly guessed the PIN 
or shoulder surfed Mrs C when using her card and PIN, I think the only plausible 
explanation here is that Mrs C had kept a written record of her PIN in her handbag 
along with her card. I cant reasonably reach any other conclusion as I dont think 
theres a logical explanation for how the fraudster knew Mrs Cs PIN.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs Cs account. They make it clear that 
Mrs C should do all she reasonably can to keep her payment tools safe. They also 
say that Mrs C shouldnt do anything that would let someone else use her payment 
tools, including writing them down in a way someone else can understand. And they 
explain that if someone takes money from Mrs Cs account because she hadnt kept 
her payment tools safe or secret when she shouldve done, then she may lose all the 
money.
It follows, I think Mrs C was reasonably required to under the terms and conditions of 
her account to keep her PIN safe. Although Mrs C left her handbag in a locked car, I 
think a reasonable person would consider it careless of Mrs C to have left her PIN 
with her card in her handbag  which as Ive already explained, is the most probable explanation for what happened here  enabling the fraudster to use her payment 
tools to make transactions.
Im satisfied this amounts to gross negligence on Mrs Cs part which means Barclays 
can fairly hold her liable for the transactions even though she didnt authorise them.
Mrs C says she blocked her card on the Barclays mobile app when she discovered 
her handbag had been stolen from the car around 4pm. While the audit reports show 
that Mrs C logged into her banking app at 4.15pm, 4.17pm and 4.22pm, theres no 
record of her cancelling her card until 9.48pm when she spoke to Barclays.
I understand Mrs C also had a debit card and a credit card with another bank in her 
stolen handbag which she also says she cancelled. Ive received evidence from her 
other bank which confirms Mrs Cs credit card was stopped but her debit card 
remained active, and it wasnt marked as lost or stolen on or around August 2021.
I know Mrs C was stressed as she had a lot going on at the time of realising her 
handbag had been stolen. And I dont doubt she tried to cancel all her cards and 
report the theft to the police, its possible she was under the impression she had 
done so successfully. But unfortunately, the evidence shows she didnt actually 
cancel her Barclays debit card until much later that night and after the disputed 
transactions had taken place.
Mrs C has a responsibility under the terms and conditions of her account to tell 
Barclays as soon as possible if she had lost her payment tools  especially if Mrs C 
thought someone else might have been able to find them  which was the case here 
as Mrs Cs handbag was stolen. The terms and conditions explain that Barclays 
wont refund any payments made before Mrs C told them about the loss or danger 
that the security of her payment tools had been compromised.
Based on this I dont think its fair to hold Barclays liable for the loss caused by the 
fraudulent use of Mrs Cs card, as it couldve been prevented, if Mrs C had cancelled 
the card shortly after she discovered her handbag was stolen.
I dont dispute Mrs C tried to stop some of the payments from leaving as soon as she 
saw they had been made. However, it was too late to prevent funds being taken from 
the account as the transactions had already been approved when Mrs C spoke to 
Barclays.
So, I cant fairly say Barclays did something wrong, as there wasnt anything further 
they could do to stop the transactions which had already been approved from 
debiting the account at the point when they were notified. Barclays cancelled Mrs Cs 
card immediately after they were informed, which prevented two further transactions 
from being made.
Ive also thought about whether Barclays shouldve done more to flag these 
transactions as fraudulent. But I dont think they had to. I say this because the 
disputed transactions werent so far out of the ordinary spending pattern on the 
account. I can see there were several other larger spends on the account in the 
months leading to the disputed transactions. Also, and most importantly, the disputed 
transactions were made using Mrs Cs genuine card and PIN which only she should 
have access to.
I appreciate Mr B and Mrs C feel the retailer is fictitious. It may be that the retailer 
isnt operating legitimately, but I dont think Barclays can fairly be held responsible for this. The payments were processed using valid retailer codes and were customer 
present transactions which were correctly authenticated with Mrs Cs PIN.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions.
Mr B and Mrs C rejected the conclusions of my provisional decision. In summary, they 
explained they challenge the finding based on the evidence relating to the terms and 
conditions and the legal basis of whether Mrs C did all she reasonably could to keep her 
payment tools safe. And on the basis that Barclays failed in their duty of care whereby they 
turned a blind eye to obvious dishonesty  for example, the use of a fraudulent business to 
process large withdrawals.
They reiterated that Barclays had released large sums of money through a fictitious 
business. They explained that no reasonable person could believe that a retailer of this type 
would have legitimate reason to provide thousands of pounds of cash to any user. They 
thought it was commercially illogical that a legitimate business would give a cash advance of 
such an amount and thereby incur transaction fees as itd be a trivial loss-making activity. 
They said that the retailer was clearly a fictitious business and a simple visit to their address 
or a search engine search would show this. 
They believe Barclays negligence in this situation outweighs any negligence contained in 
the hypotheses about how Mrs Cs card was compromised. They explained there are three 
clear tests to demonstrate this:
If Mr B and Mrs C wanted to withdraw £3,000 in cash from their own account 
from a Barclays branch, theyd be required to provide at least 24 hours notice 
and their card, PIN and additional identification documents. So, they believe if 
thats the standard security protocol for releasing such sums of money, then 
the level of security on the disputed transactions fell short of the standard.
They believe even if Mrs C were to broadcast her PIN on national television, 
Barclays would be considered grossly negligent to release sums of cash 
through a fictitious retailer without any alarms being raised. They believe its 
incorrect to suggest that cash withdrawals from this retailer or type of retailer 
formed part of any transaction history on the account. They agreed the 
quantum may not have been a significant outlier, but the method was patently 
atypical. And any reasonable person would consider £3,000 of cash 
advances from this type of retailer to be suspicious.
They tried to stop the transactions in real time and were told that Barclays 
would release the money despite their objections.  
They said they understood the process by which I came to a conclusion that Mrs C was 
grossly negligent, but they felt I didnt take into account Barclays responsibilities. They 
argued that Barclays gross negligence far outweigh a set of suppositions about how Mrs Cs 
card was compromised.
They believe they did everything that was reasonable to protect Mrs Cs card. They 
explained they left it in a self-locking car, on one of UKs most secure streets, in daylight, in 
an enclosed trunk where no one could see there was a handbag in the car. They dont agree 
they compromised the security of the card but recognised that I disagree with that. They 
explained they thought theyd cancelled all of the lost cards and got in touch immediately when they saw notifications on their phone suggesting a crime was being committed. They 
say they pleaded with Barclays to stop releasing funds.
And on the other hand, Barclays allowed a fictitious retailer to advance thousands of pounds 
of cash on a simple chip and PIN. They said Barclays had a chance to stop the transactions 
but declined to do so.
They say theres a hypothesis about what happened thats being used to demonstrate that 
Mrs C was grossly negligent but feel theres clear evidence that Barclays failed in their duties 
at more than one point. They believe it is Barclays who were grossly negligent in this case.
Barclays didnt respond to my provisional decision within the deadline given, and they didnt 
need to as I wasnt asking them to do anything.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Mr B and Mrs C have provided any new comments or evidence which I hadnt 
already considered when I made my provisional decision. I know Mr B and Mrs C will be 
disappointed but the points theyve made havent changed my mind on the outcome of this 
complaint.
I appreciate Mr B and Mrs C dont believe they compromised Mrs Cs payment tools. But as 
explained in my provisional decision, I think the only plausible explanation for how Mrs Cs 
PIN was compromised is that she had kept a written record of her PIN in her handbag along 
with her card.
Although Mrs C left her handbag out of sight in the trunk of a locked car, I think a reasonable 
person would consider it careless of Mrs C to have left her PIN with her card in her handbag 
and Im satisfied this amounts to gross negligence. So, Barclays can fairly hold Mrs C liable 
for the disputed transactions.
I appreciate Mr B and Mrs C feel Barclays were grossly negligent and failed in their duty of 
care. Ive thought about this, but I dont agree for broadly the same reasons explained in my 
provisional decision.
The transactions made to the retailer were card payments made using Mrs Cs genuine card 
and PIN. They werent cash advances as Mr B and Mrs C have suggested. So, they cant be 
compared to the security procedures carried out during a cash withdrawal in branch.
I agree the use of this retailer or type of retailer arent usual activity for Mr B and Mrs Cs 
account. But the type of disputed transactions made were one cash withdrawal from an 
Automated Teller Machine and three card payments. Mr B and Mrs C regularly use their 
account for these types of transactions. And theyve already accepted the amounts involved 
werent likely a significant outlier. 
I remain of the same view Barclays didnt have to do more to flag the disputed transactions 
as they werent so far out of the ordinary spending pattern on the account  particularly, as 
the disputed transactions were made using Mrs Cs genuine card and PIN which only she 
should have access to.I havent listened to the calls between Mr B and Mrs C and Barclays. This is because Ive 
accepted Mr B and Mrs Cs testimony about what was said, and these calls dont change the 
outcome as it was too late to prevent the funds from being taken.
As a general rule, once a card payment has been correctly authorised it cant be cancelled 
by the bank. In the specific circumstances of this complaint, I accept the funds hadnt yet left 
the account when Mr B and Mrs C called Barclays, but this doesnt mean Barclays could 
stop the payments. 
It was too late to stop the funds from being taken from the account as the payments to the 
retailer had already been authorised when Mr B and Mrs C called Barclays. It follows, I dont 
think Barclays did anything wrong in not stopping payments already authorised.
While Mrs C tried to stop the transactions in real time, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, it was her responsibility to tell Barclays as soon as shed lost her payment tools  
which shouldve been at around 4pm on 24 August 2021 when she discovered her handbag 
was stolen. However, the evidence shows that Mrs C didnt cancel her Barclays debit card 
until 9.48pm.
So, I dont think its fair to hold Barclays liable for the loss caused by the fraudulent use of 
Mrs Cs card, as it couldve been prevented, if she had cancelled the card shortly after she 
discovered her handbag was stolen.
I have great sympathy for Mr B and Mrs C, as it does appear the retailer was, in some way, 
involved in the money being taken from their account. But I have to look at whether Barclays 
have done anything wrong, and I dont think they have. 
I dont think Barclays could have known the retailer was fraudulent. The retailer had, it 
appears, a card terminal to allow it to receive payments and those payments were correctly 
authorised using Mrs Cs card and PIN. I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to 
process these transactions and to think, at the time, Mrs C was making these payments as 
her genuine card and PIN were used.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman