DRN-3975191
The complaint
This complaint is about an interest-only mortgage Ms D holds with Santander UK Plc, which 
was due for repayment in February 2022. The gist of Ms Ds complaint is she wanted a term 
extension and a new fixed rate deal, but Santander told her she needed to vary the charge 
over her property from leasehold to freehold first. A delay followed whilst Ms D looked into 
arranging this. However, this then meant that any term extension necessary to 
accommodate a two-year fixed rate (the shortest available) would take her past her 70th 
birthday, which was outside Santanders lending policy.
The original mortgage term has since expired; Santander isnt pressing Ms D to execute the 
variation of charge any longer, but is expecting proposals from her to repay the mortgage 
altogether.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 1 February 2023, I set out my provisional conclusions 
on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to both parties, as theyve 
have been set out in the response issued by our investigator. A copy of that has been 
sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details in full here. Our decisions 
are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might result 
in Ms D being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt 
think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The investigator gave his view of the complaint in November 2022; he explained that 
Santander had been alerted by the solicitors doing the original conveyance in 2012 
about the need for its charge to be registered over the freehold of the property, rather 
than the leasehold for the individual flat (Ms D owns both and lives in the latter). 
Given the importance Santander attached to the issue when Ms D wanted a term 
extension and new fixed rate in February 2022, the investigator said it should have 
made sure matters were done correctly in 2012. Had Santander done that, the 
investigator reasoned that there would have been no delay, and thered have been 
enough time for Ms D to have a two-year term extension (along with a new two-year 
interest rate product) that would finish before she reached age 70 in June 2024.
To resolve the complaint, the investigator recommended that, provided Ms D now 
executed the variation of charge at her own expense, Santander should consider 
providing a term extension and new rate product (both with a duration of two years) 
but back dated to when Ms D first wanted them. Ms D agreed with this 
recommendation, but at the same asked that she be compensated further for her 
time, trouble an upset, plus the extra cost of varying the charge now rather than in 
2012. 
Santander rejected the investigators recommendation, saying, in effect, that the 
actions of the conveyancing solicitor in 2012 were nothing to with it, because the 
solicitors had been appointed by Ms D and were working in their professional 
capacity for her.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ill start with some general observations. Although Ive read and considered the 
whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor 
are we a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an 
informal alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to 
resolve their differences. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done, these are my 
conclusions, and the reasons for them.
In a purchase and mortgage transaction where only one firm of solicitors are 
involved, the solicitors have two clients, the purchaser and the lender. There are two 
discrete roles the solicitors carry out. 
For the purchaser, the solicitors ensure that the property has good title, and there are 
no restrictions or hidden claims over the title or occupiers rights. After completion, 
they will register the purchasers title to the property and ensure all fees and taxes 
are paid. 
For the lender, the solicitors have to ensure that the title is suitable security for the 
mortgage. They will arrange signature of the mortgage deed, prepare the report on 
title for the lender, obtain any undertakings (binding promises) from the sellers 
solicitors to safeguard the lenders position, theyll transfer the funds over on 
completion and register the lenders charge.
Regardless of who appointed the solicitors in 2012, the solicitors acted as agent for 
either Ms D or Santander, depending on the specific task they were engaged in at 
any given moment. When it came to ensuring the charge was registered 
appropriately, the solicitors were acting for Santander, which would explain why they 
wrote to Santander in 2012 for guidance on what to do. 
I agree entirely with our investigator that it was incumbent on Santander to ensure in 
2012 that the correct instruction was given to the solicitor; that is, to register the 
charge over the freehold. Insofar as the charge was registered over the leasehold, it 
seems to me one of two things happened. Either:
Santander instructed the solicitors to register the charge over the freehold and 
the solicitors ignored those instructions; or
Santander gave no instructions either way, and the solicitors made their own 
judgement to register the charge over the leasehold.Either way, insofar as the solicitors were acting as Santanders agent, Santander is 
liable for the charge being registered in 2012 in a manner that was contrary to what 
Santander told Ms D was required in 2022, thus creating an unnecessary barrier to 
her seeking a term extension and new interest rate product. It is therefore only fair 
and reasonable that the barrier be removed and Ms Ds request for a term extension 
(and new interest rate product) be assessed by reference to Santanders lending 
policy as it would have been in February 2022 if the barrier hadnt been there in the 
first place. 
If the term extension is approved, it should then be applied retrospectively to run for 
two years starting from 1 March 2022. At the same time, a new two-year interest rate 
product should be applied to the mortgage; the product to be chosen by Ms D from 
those that Santander was offering in February 2022. As part of its response to this 
provisional decision, Santander will need to provide details of the two-year products it 
had available at the relevant time, so that Ms D can pick one.
Where I disagree with our investigator is where he says its up to Ms D to execute the 
variation now before Santander must put a term extension and new interest rate 
product in place. It was Santanders responsibility to register the charge correctly in 
2012; its still Santanders responsibility to do so now. 
Santander will need to issue the necessary instructions to a firm of solicitors of its 
choosing; all Ms D will be expected to is to respond fully and promptly to any 
requests for information and/or action she receives from the solicitors in order to 
expedite the process. Also, Santander should do so at no charge to Ms D. It would 
have cost no more to register the charge correctly in 2012 than it cost to register it 
incorrectly. Ms D paid for that to happen in 2012; she should not have to pay a 
second time.
The steps Im intending ordering Stander to take to resolve this matter will take some 
time, and assuming the complaint is ultimately resolved along the lines Im proposing, 
the extended term will then run until the end of February 2024, at which point the 
mortgage debt will fall due for repayment. That being the case, to be clear, nothing I 
say here obliges Santander to agree to a future request for another term extension 
change, and nothing of that nature should be inferred. 
Any future request for a long-term change to the mortgage, will be subject to 
Santanders lending criteria at the relevant time, and Ms D should be thinking now 
about how she will repay the balance of the mortgage in 2024 if no further extension 
is available. 
Theres another thing. An effect of backdating an interest rate product to 1 March 
2022 will be that once it has been done, Ms D will have overpaid during the period 
between the expiry of the previous rate and the date the substitution takes place. It 
will be for her to choose whether to have those overpayments returned to her or have 
them remain on the mortgage account, thus reducing the outstanding balance. 
In the event she chooses the former  and Id ask that Ms D express her preference 
when replying to this provisional decision  then Santander will have to pay her 
interest at 8% simple, less income tax if relevant, on each refunded amount, from the 
date the overpayment was made up to the eventual date of settlement.Lastly, I consider the whole experience of fighting for a fair outcome will have caused 
Ms D a lot of worry and stress that could have been avoided. This was an entirely 
unnecessary sequence of events that would have been avoided if Santander has 
recognised  as it really should have done right away  that it bore the responsibility 
for ensuring the charge was correctly registered. Shes due compensation for that, 
and in my view, more than the £250 Santander paid into Ms Ds bank account 
without first waiting to see if she accepted it. Im minded to order Santander to pay 
Ms D a further £250, making £500 in all.
I gave the parties two weeks two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; both have done 
so.
Santander agreed to take the steps I set out in the provisional decision, at the same time 
explaining why it didnt agree with my reasoning. Ms D welcomed my provisional decision, 
albeit with reservations. She said shed applied for the term extension and interest product in 
September 2021, so that should be the representative date for the re-assessment. Ms D was 
also concerned by the possibility that Santander might find a new reason to turn down the 
application, and wasnt convinced £500 was enough compensation for the stress she has 
encountered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided.
Ive noted what Santander has said about why it doesnt agree with me on the role of the 
solicitor in the 2012 transaction. Its moot, insofar as Santander has agreed to carry out the 
redress I recommended, but for completeness, Im satisfied that the dual role of a solicitor 
does mean Santander was responsible for the solicitor registering the charge in the way it 
did.
I appreciate why Ms D might feel uneasy about her application having to be re-assessed, but 
it wouldnt be right for me simply to order Santander to grant the term extension. Its a matter 
for Santanders commercial judgement whether to grant it or not, and my role is not to 
exercise that judgement in Santanders place. My role is to ensure Santander exercises its 
judgement fairly, and where I find that it has made a mistake in doing so, to order it to go 
back and exercise its judgement again, without the effect of the mistake. That said, Ms D is 
right to say that the effective date for the re-assessment should be September 2021, as that 
is when she made the request, and not February 2022 when the original term was due to 
end. 
That leaves the level of compensation. This isnt an exact science, its very much a 
subjective area; everyone reacts to and perceives things differently, especially in the 
moment. Having considered everything, I consider the award Ive made to be proportionate, 
fair, and consistent with the level of award our service typically awards in broadly similar 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint by ordering Santander UK Plc to do the 
following:
arrange, at its own cost, for the charge over Ms Ds property to be amended to cover the 
freehold of the building; assess, in accordance with its lending policy, Ms Ds request for a term extension to run 
for two years from 1 October 2021 and, if approved, apply a two-year interest rate 
product of Ms Ds choosing from those that would have been available; 
in the event that the term extension is approved and the product switch applied 
alongside it, refund to Ms D directly the resultant overpayments with interest, less tax if 
applicable*, as set out above; and
pay a further Ms D £250 compensation for her time, trouble and upset, making £500 in 
all.
*If Santander UK Plc considers it should deduct basic rate income tax from the interest 
element of the award, it should then issue the relevant tax certificate to Ms D.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman