DRN-4331368
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the delays he experienced, and the service received when 
transferring ISA accounts to Santander UK Plc (Santander) from other product providers. 
Mr C suffered stress, severe inconvenience, anxiety, and financial loss. He wants financial 
compensation. 
What happened
In February 2021 Mr C completed an online application and sent the relevant forms for ISA 
transfers from two other providers  the ceding businesses  who I shall refer to as 
Company A and Company B in my decision.
The transfers were for;
From Company A  a stocks and shares ISA valued at around £6,885 (which I shall 
refer to as £6,000 for ease of reading).
From Company B  two cash ISAs, one valued at around £52,114 (£52,000) and the 
other at £17,555 (£17,000).
Mr C wasnt satisfied with the amount of time it took for the transfers to complete and had 
difficulty in transferring cash to his Santander Investment Hub account. He said he had 
made on-line ISA transfer request notifications on 25 February and mailed hard copies of 
those requests altogether on the same day. Because of the delays he complained to 
Santander.
Santander initially responded to Mr Cs complaint on 14 April 2021. It said;
For the two transfers from Company B it received one transfer request on                  
4 March 2021 for £17,000 and sent its acceptance letter to Company B on the same 
date.
For the larger sum of £52,000 it received the request on 9 March and sent its 
acceptance letter on the same day.
It couldnt locate any technical errors on its part.
Santander addressed Mr Cs complaint more fully in its letter of 11 May. It said;
For the transfer from Company A it received Company As letter and cheque on       
24 March and £6,680.29 was added to Mr Cs Investment Hub account on 31 March 
when the funds would need to settle on the platform before they could be used for 
investments. It processed this transfer successfully.
For the transfers from Company B it received both cheques on 7 April but then 
received notification that they couldnt be cashed as they were no longer valid.
It received a replacement cheque for £52,000 on 15 April and the funds were added 
to Mr Cs Investment Hub account on 22 April. Mr C invested those funds on          
29 April.
The second cheque payment for £17,000 wasnt received until 28 April and the funds 
added to Mr Cs Investment Hub account on 6 May. At the time of the letter being 
written the funds may still have been settling on the account for Mr Cs use.
The cheque received on 28 April included a note confirming that the cheques issued 
on 12 April had been stopped and new cheques were included. But only the one 
cheque for £17,000 was included.
Mr C had said he needed access to the funds as he was buying a property and had 
to cash in his pension as a result. But Santander concluded that the cheques were 
handled correctly, and it wouldnt accept any liability for the cashing in of his 
pension.
It apologised for Mr C being cut off during a call and for the different cheque 
clearance timescales he had been told.
Unhappy with the outcome Mr C brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint thought that Santander should do more. In 
his letter of 1 June, he said;
He outlined in detail the timeline for the transfers from Company A and Company B.
He was satisfied the transfer and payment from Company A was handled correctly.
He said that Santander was responsible for some of the delay experienced by Mr C 
in the transfer of his two ISAs from Company B. So, for financial compensation he 
suggested that Santander calculate and compensate Mr C for any units and interest 
he would have lost as if the total of £69,930.98 had arrived in his Investment Hub 
account within 30 days from 30 March 2021.
He also concluded that Mr C had experienced trouble and upset in trying to resolve 
the issue which included a significant amount of money. And as Mr Cs wife had 
raised a similar complaint and which had been reviewed and upheld, while his 
complaint was not reviewed, could only have added to the trouble and upset he was 
caused. He thought Mr C should be paid £150 on top of and financial loss he had 
suffered.
In its response, Santander suggested that the date of 8 April 2021 be used for calculation 
purposes. This was because Mr C hadnt invested the funds he received on the date of 
receipt. In one instance he invested seven days after receipt and 18/20 days for another. 
Our investigator thought this was fair. He made Mr C aware of this and that any adjustments 
would be done by adding units to his existing holdings. No interest would be due as this was 
accounted for in the adjustment of the number of units. He reiterated that he thought the 
£150 offer was fair.
In order to conclude the matter Mr C accepted the investigators suggested outcome and 
was prepared to accept the credit by way of a positive adjustment to the amount of shares 
he held. But he wasnt willing to accept the suggested offer of £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience he had been caused.
This was because his wife had a similar complaint and Santander awarded her £400 along 
with admission of its errors and the inconvenience caused. In Mr Cs case, Santander had 
failed to acknowledge or address his complaint beyond 20 September. The complaints were 
identical in character, but it had been Santanders suggestion to split the one complaint Mr C 
and his wife had jointly made into two. Mr C thought £750 would be a fairer offer.
A second of our investigators reiterated the offer of £150 to Mr C and outlined the difference 
in the complaint points with those of Mr Cs wife and the reasons why she thought the offer 
was fair. She also said that the offer Santander had made to Mr Cs wife was made without any involvement from this service and if it had, it would unlikely have been such a high 
award.
Mr C disagreed with the investigator and also thought it hadnt addressed the issue that 
Santanders documents clearly stating that all transfers would be completed within 30 days 
and that compensation should be paid for all and any delays thereafter.
In his later response Mr C said that two issues still hadnt been resolved;
The first was that the Santander Investment Hub key features document said that 
once weve received your transfer forms, it can take up to 30 days for your transfer 
to be completed.
And the second was that every time it took an additional seven or more days from 
when Santander first notified Mr C that it had the credits before he was able to  
access and invest those funds.
In detail he said;
Santander said the cheque received from Company A for £6,885.32 on 24 March 
didnt appear in his account until a further seven days and then it was a further eight 
days until he was able to invest on 8 April 2022.
For the £52,391.43 from Company B, Santander has said this was deposited into   
Mr  Cs account on 22 April 2021, but he was only able to access and invest the 
funds seven days later on 29 April 2021.
For the sum of £17,539.95 from Company B Mr C was notified of on 6 May 2021, but 
he only had access to the funds to enable him to invest on 24 May 2021, 18 days 
later.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it was passed to me for a decision. I didnt think the 
outcome was correct so issued a provisional decision which allowed the parties to provide 
me with any further information or evidence they wanted me to consider. And since the 
above history of events, Santander had changed its position on the compensation it thought 
was due to Mr C. I outlined this and discussed it further in my provisional decision. This is 
what I said;
First, I should like to apologise to the parties for the delay in my issuing this 
provisional decision. It has taken longer then I intended and pass on my apologies for 
that.
ISA transfer guidelines
As a background for a stocks and shares ISA transfer HMRCs guidelines are that 
they should be completed within 30 calendar days. This would apply to the transfer 
from Company A.
For a cash ISA transfer  which would apply to the transfers from Company B  they 
should be completed within 15 working days. Santanders own Investment Hub  
Key Feature Document states Once weve received your transfer form, it can take 
up to 30 days for your transfer to be completed
Encashment of cheques and the cash being available for investment
I asked Santander for a clarification of its timelines and when cheque payments 
received were actually available for investment. It told us that cheques are sent for banking on the date of receipt in its Bootle mailroom. Around four/five days later its 
Investment Team would get confirmation the cheque has cleared and then the 
Investment Team would add those funds to the Investment Hub which involves a 
further clearance period of four days.
I wouldnt expect to see a two-stage cheque clearance process. And I cant see that
is referred to in Santanders terms and conditions but that is a business decision for
Santander to make. Santander told us this was its safety net in case a cheque is
returned unpaid at the last minute. It wants to ensure cheques dont return unpaid
before any dealing is completed.
I dont find the reasoning it has given us to be unreasonable and is a prudent 
approach. Santander wouldnt want to be responsible for investments that had been 
made and then found that the funds for those investments werent actually available. 
It could expose itself to the possibility of making investments on behalf of a client 
without cleared funds.
I hope I have been able to explain Santanders cheque clearance process clearly for 
Mr C.
The transfers
In response to my queries about the timelines that applied in Mr Cs case Santander 
revisited the dates for the transfers and didnt think it was responsible for 
compensating Mr C for the all of the delays. I detail this below.
Transfer from Company A
25 February 2021  Mr C completed Santanders ISA Transfer In Request Form 
instructing Company A to sell any investments and for the resulting cash to be 
transferred to Santander. Mr C told us he completed the transfer form on-line, but 
I note that form also said he had to send a hard copy as well which he did on the 
same day.
9 March 2021  Santander contacted Company A to confirm acceptance of the 
transfer. I assume the transfer request had also been received on 4 March (a 
Thursday) as Mr C has said all the requests were sent in the same envelope and 
Santander has said the transfer forms for the transfers to Company B were 
received on 4 March. So, contact was made with Company A three working days 
after it was received by Santander.
24 March 2021  Santander received a cheque for £6,680.29 (dated 22 March) 
from Company A.
31 March 2021  the cheque was cleared and paid into the Mr Cs Investment 
Hub.
Mr C called Santander on that day for a discussion about what to invest into and  
during that call he was advised the funds would take a few days to clear for him 
to be able to invest them.
2  5 April 2021  Easter Bank Holiday weekend took place.
On 8 April the funds cleared into the Investment Hub and Mr C invested them.
I asked Santander to reconsider the timeline of events bearing in mind the delays Mr C 
said he experienced in being able to invest his funds because of the cheque clearance 
delays of it being credited into his Investment Hub.In response Santander said that there was no way Mr C could have had cleared funds in 
his Investment Hub any earlier than 8 April. It said;
After it wrote to Company A on 9 March it took over two weeks before it was in 
receipt of the cheque.
Five working days later its finance team processed the cheque and applied it to 
Mr Cs Investment Hub on 31 March.
The Easter Bank Holiday weekend took up four non-working days and the 
cheque cleared in the Investment Hub on 8 April which was four days after it had 
been paid into the Investment Hub and the day that Mr C invested the funds.
It concluded that it shouldnt be responsible for any back pricing if that proved to be 
necessary. It asked whether any complaint had been made to Company A.
This transfer took a total of 35 calendar days which is five days more than the HMRC 
stocks and shares ISA transfer guidelines as well as being outside of Santanders own 
terms.
However, I have borne in mind that these are only HMRC guidelines and in the 
particular circumstances of this complaint I agree that Santander couldnt have acted 
any more quickly than it did. It responded to the transfer request in three working days. 
It took over two weeks for it to receive the cheque payment but after that followed its 
own cheque clearance timelines, as I have outlined above, plus there was the four-day 
Easter weekend. Taking into account the two weeks it took for Santander to receive the 
cheque and in following its own clearance timelines, Santander says the payment 
wouldnt have cleared into Mr Cs Investment Hub any earlier than 8 April which is when 
Mr C invested the cash.
I think what Santander has said is fair reasonable. So, taking all of the above into 
account, I dont propose to uphold this element of Mr Cs complaint.
Transfers from Company B
These transfers were made in cash where HMRC states the transfer should take no 
longer than 15 working days.
£52,000 transfer
As mentioned above, for this element of Mr Cs complaint, despite Santander previously  
agreeing to best price the transfer and subsequent trade dates to 8 April it has changed 
its position. It has said that it didnt cause any of the delays and asked whether a 
complaint had been made against Company B. I wont be commenting on that point as it 
is for Mr C to decide who to make a complaint with. I am only considering Mr Cs 
complaint against Santander in this decision.
The timeline for this transfer is as follows;
25 February 2021  Mr C completed the transfer form online and sends it to 
Santander on the same day.
4 March 2021  Santander receives the transfer in request form and wrote to 
Company B on the same day. It said that cheques would only be accepted when 
no other payment method was possible. It asked for cheque payments to be sent to its Bootle office with the transfer form.
15 March 2021  Company B sends an ISA transfer history form incorrectly 
addressed to Santanders Bradford office. The cheque for £52,391.43 wasnt 
enclosed.
8 April 2021  Santander wrote to Company B confirming it accepted both the 
ISA transfers. I assume this was because it was outstanding the funds it was 
expecting.
15 April 2021 - The cheque for £52,391.43 (dated 12 April) was received in the 
Bootle office, which was cleared, then deposited into Mr Cs Investment Hub on 
22 April.
29 April 2021  Mr C invests the funds.
Im satisfied that Santander acted promptly in contacting Company B. But it didnt 
receive the cheque payment until 15 April. If it had been received along with the transfer 
history form sent on 15 March  and which I assume was received on or around          
16 March  assuming a  seven calendar day clearance timescale in line with the 
payment when it was actually  received on 15 April, then the funds would have been 
cleared by 23 March and so within the 15 working day HMRC guidelines.
So, I dont agree that the delay was caused by Santander  it quite simply wasnt in 
receipt of the cheque payment until 15 April and couldnt have acted any more quickly.
£17,000 transfer
25 February 2021  Mr C completes the transfer request on-line and mails it to 
Santander on the same day.
4 March 2021 - Santander received the transfer request and again wrote to 
Company B on the same day. It requested that the ISA transfer form and cheque 
be sent to its Bootle office.
25 March 2021 - The transfer form and cheque for £17,539.55 (dated 24 March) 
was received in its Bradford office. This was redirected and later received in its 
Bootle mailroom on 7 April.
12 April 2021  Mr Cs wife contacted Santander about her transfer which was 
happening simultaneously. She was incorrectly advised to ask Company B to 
cancel the cheques that had been sent and this was also communicated to Mr C. 
This was an error made by Santander, but it said the information had been given 
in good faith as the cheques werent to hand when that call took place.
15 April 2021  Santanders Bootle mailroom received the second cheque for 
£17,539.55 (dated 12 April).
16 April 2021  The cheque was returned to Company B in error and advised that 
the funds had already been received.
22 April 2021  Company B was advised of the miscommunication by Santander 
and confirmed it would accept the transfer and gave its bank details as its 
preferred method of payment.
28 April 2021  A further cheque was received and deposited into Mr Cs 
Investment Hub on 6 May.
24 and 26 May 2021  Mr C invests the funds.Santander doesnt agree it should be held responsible for the delays caused by 
correspondence being received at its Bradford rather than the Bootle address. It said it 
took nearly 20 days from the receipt of Santanders acceptance letter sent on 4 March 
for the cheque payment to be sent on 24 March. It was sent to the wrong office and had 
to be forwarded to the Bootle office.
But Santander does accept that if it hadnt misadvised Mr Cs wife the cheque was to be 
cancelled it could have processed the payment it had already received on 25 March. If 
that had been the case  and after accounting for the redirection of the payment from 
the Bootle office to Bradford  then the funds would have been available to invest on   
20 April.
It said this because if the cheque it did receive on 25 March in its Bradford mailroom had 
been dealt with correctly the following dates would have applied. On 7 April the cheque 
would have been received in its Bootle mailroom after being redirected  this took seven 
working days after allowing the two weekends and Bank Holiday. The Bootle office 
would have sent the cheque for banking and five days later the cheque would have 
cleared and have been added to Mr Cs Investment Hub where they would have cleared 
on 20 April.
It told us it couldnt find any evidence that Mr C wasnt able to access the funds in his 
Investment Hub until 18 days after they were deposited. And that Company B must take 
responsibility for any delays it caused.
Conclusion
Overall, Santander concluded the following;
It didnt cause any delays for the transfer from Company A.
For the transfer of the £52,000 ISA it didnt cause any of those delays which 
occurred because the cheque and transfer form were sent to the incorrect 
address as well as for the time it took for the cheque to reach Santander.
It did agree that it partially caused the delay of the payment for £17,000 because 
of the misinformation it gave about cancelling the cheque, but it didnt cause the 
majority of that delay. It asked me to consider how the matter could be put right.
I agree that Santander doesnt have to do anything further for the transfer from 
Company A and the transfer of £52,000 from Company B. But I dont agree with its 
conclusions about the dates it has used for the receipt of cheque payment for £17,000.
Some of the delay Mr C experienced was caused by the misinformation Mr Cs wife was 
given during the phone call  she was advised to request that Company B cancel the 
cheques that had been sent and this was then compounded by Santander incorrectly 
returning the second cheque. This caused a delay of around three weeks, but I do 
accept this misinformation was given in good faith. I have thought about how Santander 
ought to put things right for Mr C.
Putting things right
Santander was in receipt of the cheque for £17,000 in its Bootle mailroom on 7 April, 
and again assuming a seven-calendar day clearance timescale, the funds would have 
been available for investment on 14 April. So, I think that is the start date for the timeline 
to be used by Santander when backdating the trades.After 14 April additional days should be added in line with the number of days Mr C went 
onto invest in May. So, for the investments he made on 24 May the date that Santander 
should backdate those trades to is 12 working days later  30 April. And for the trades 
carried out on 26 May they should be backdated to 14 working days after receipt  so    
5 May 2021.
Mr C has said he didnt invest the funds when they were received on 6 May as he wasnt 
able to access the funds any earlier than 24/26 May in order to make the investments. 
As mentioned above, I asked Santander about this. It said it couldnt find any evidence 
to support Mr Cs assertion that he didnt have access to the funds in his Investment 
Hub account after 6 May. And I dont have sufficient evidence for me to safely conclude 
that Mr C was prevented from making any investments any time after 6 May. For this 
reason, I wont be asking Santander to backdate trades further, but I welcome further 
submissions from Mr C should he wish.
My provisional decision was that Santander should put the matter right by backdating the 
trades to account for the proportion of the delay it caused. If Mr C incurred a loss because of 
that, Santander should add to his holdings accordingly. And I thought the £150 
recommended by the investigator was a fair reflection for the inconvenience Mr C was 
caused.
I said Santander should;
For the trades Mr C carried out on 24 May, they should be backdated to 30 April.
For the trades Mr C carried out on 26 May, they should be backdated to 5 May.
£150 was to be paid for the inconvenience Mr C had been caused.
Santander responded and clarified that the trade it said was made on 26 May was actually 
made on 25 May so the redress date should be 4 May rather than 5 May 2021.
Mr C was made aware of this alteration to the proposed redress. He replied to this and the 
provisional decision by saying the following;
He referred to correspondence for his wifes complaint.
With reference to 6 May 2021 as being the date that Mr C could have invested he 
said he spoke with Santander several times that day because he wasnt able to 
access his funds. He said that after that he tried several times each day to access 
and invest those funds and couldnt until 23 May.
He said Santander didnt provide customers with any method to show when funds 
transferred into an account and when they could actually invest those funds.
Mr C didnt agree with Santanders interpretation of his investment intentions.
Because of the responses I received I reconsidered all of the information I had been given 
and thought the dates for the redress should be altered. I issued a second provisional 
decision to allow the parties to respond. This is what I said;
Because of what Mr C said, I asked Santander for a copy of the call recordings he 
referred to and details of any evidence to show that Mr C checked his account between 
6 and 23 May.
I have listened to the five calls Mr C had with Santander on 6 May. Mr C initiated those 
calls as a result of receiving some notifications via his Investment Hub inbox. Mr C is 
clearly frustrated with the delays but during those calls it was clarified that the cheque for £17,000 had been received that day and it could take up to ten working days to clear 
 rather than the seven-day clearance timescale.
So, after listening to those calls, Im satisfied it wouldnt have been possible for Mr C to 
have carried out any trades on that date and was advised up until a potential further ten 
working days later  20 May 2021.
Santander was able to provide metadata showing when Mr C accessed his account. I 
understand that Mr C could only access his Investment Hub account via his online 
banking account. The online banking would show his Banking and Savings accounts 
listed along with his Investment Hub. The metadata provided shows when Mr C logged 
into his online banking, but it couldnt evidence whether he viewed his Investment Hub.
The dates when Mr C logged onto his online banking are 6, 9, 10, 13 (to validate an 
online card purchase using One Time Passcode), 14 and 23 May. Bearing in mind the 
problems that Mr C had experienced with the transfers and as evidenced by his calls 
with Santander on 6 May, I think its more likely than not that when Mr C logged into his 
online banking he viewed his Investment Hub account. And found that he couldnt make 
any trades as the funds werent cleared  in line with the ten-day clearance guidelines 
hed been given during those calls of 6 May. So, I think what Mr C has told is us the 
more likely  that he couldnt access the funds on his account earlier than he did.
But because Mr C didnt access his online banking between 14 and 23 May, I cant 
know for sure what date he would have seen that the funds were available to trade. 
When I previously asked Santander for guidance on its cheque clearance timescales it 
said that cheques are sent for banking on the date of receipt and around four/five days 
later its Investment Team would get confirmation the cheque has cleared and then the 
Investment Team would add those funds to the Investment Hub which involved a further 
clearance period of four days.
So, for the sake of consistency I am going to use the Investment Hub clearance period 
of four days as I was previously advised rather than the eight to ten days Mr C was told 
of during his phone calls on 6 May.
As I said in my provisional decision, Santander was in receipt of the cheque for £17,000 
in its Bootle mailroom on 7 April, and assuming a four/five day initial clearance and a 
further four working day clearance when the funds were transferred to the Investment 
Hub that would have meant the funds would have been available for investment on       
20 April. So, I think that is the start date for the timeline to be used by Santander when 
backdating the trades.
Mr C says the first time he was aware of the funds being in his account was 23 May. He 
went on to invest on 24 and 25 May (the actual trade dates rather than the order dates) 
 one and two days later.
So, to put the matter right;
the trades Mr C made on 24 May should be backdated to 21 April and
the trades he made on 25 May should be backdated to 22 April.
Mr C should also be paid £150 for the distress and inconvenience he has been 
caused.
Mr C has said Santander should compensate him for the loss of opportunity and should 
mirror the breadth of investments he wanted to make and eventually did rather than the selection made by Santander. But I am only putting right the dates on which the actual 
investments were made which is a fair reflection of the action that Mr C actually took.
Because it cant be known for sure when Mr C would have invested if the funds had 
been available when they should have been its difficult to be precise in putting the 
matter right. But I hope the parties will accept that what I have provisionally decided for 
redress purposes is a fair and reasonable conclusion to the complaint.
Mr C nor Santander responded to my second provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party to the complaint has given me anything further to consider, I see no reason 
to depart from my second provisional decision. So, I confirm those findings and I partially 
uphold Mr Cs complaint. And Santander needs to put the matter right by backdating the 
trades and Santander should add to his holdings if he has lost out.
Putting things right
So, to put the matter right;
For the trades Mr C made on 24 May Santander should backdate them to          
21 April and;
For the trades Mr C made on 25 May Santander should backdate them to          
22 April.
Santander should also pay Mr C £150 for the distress and inconvenience he has 
been caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I partially uphold Mr Cs complaint and Santander UK Plc should put 
the matter right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman