DRN-2952964
The complaint
Mr M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited rejected his claim under S 75 Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 I respect of repairs to a property.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr M bought a house along with another as joint tenants. The house cost 
£90,000 and Mr M paid the agent £896 which he describes in his complaint form as a 
deposit. He used his credit card for this deposit.  Mr M says they discovered a floor was 
rotten and he made a claim under S 75 for the cost of repairing the damage.  
Mr M says he only paid £2,896 towards the cost of the property and so his claim falls with 
the financial limits set down in S 75. Vanquis didnt agree and he brought his complaint to 
this service where it was considered by one of our investigators. She concluded that the 
claim wasnt covered by S 75. She referred to the legislation which states:
Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim (a) under a non-commercial agreement, or (b) so 
far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price not 
exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
She noted the legislation refers to the cash price of any single item, not to a part price or to a 
deposit. The contract was for a property with a price of sum £90,000 and that is the value of 
the single item referred to by S75. 
She appreciated Mr M said he only owned a share of the property which is less than 
£30,000, however, she didnt believe she had seen sufficient evidence to demonstrate that 
was the case. Mr M didnt agree and said he didnt own the whole house and he provided a 
letter from the joint tenant that the £2,986 received from Mr M was a deposit/guarantee 
towards the accommodation and it added that Mr M also paid rent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The facts of this matter are a little unusual. The transfer of title shows that the property was 
acquired under a joint tenancy which means that it is owned equally between Mr M and the 
other party. However, Mr M claims that he only paid a relatively small part of the £90,000 to 
acquire the property, even though he owns a half share. It is also a little unusual that he 
should pay for the repairs, if, as he claims he only owns a very small share of the property. I 
would have expected the alleged main owner to bear most, if not all of the cost..
However, the key issue is that, as our investigator has explained, the determining factor for 
the financial limits of S 75 is the cash price from which the goods are sold. It does not refer 
to how that cost may be shared out between different parties. The key question is does the 
cash price of the goods exceed £30,000? In the case the answer to that question is yes and 
so S75 does not come into effect.
Furthermore, it is not clear that the required debtor-creditor-supplier (d-c-s) link is in place. 
The solicitors summary show that £800 (not £896) was paid to the agent and this went 
towards the £90,000 due for the property. Therefore, it would appear that the money was 
payable to the seller but was actually paid to the agent as an intermediary. I have not 
considered this in detail, given I believe the claim fails for other reasons, but I think it quite 
likely that d-c-s link has been broken.
So, while I have every sympathy with Mr M I do not consider I can uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman