DRN-3188090
The complaint
Mr R complains about the level of service he received from Compare The Market Limited 
(CTM) when he took out a motor insurance policy through it.
 
What happened
When Mr R applied for a policy through CTMs website, he selected that he wanted a 
protected No Claims Discount (NCD) included. But the policy that he then selected and 
bought didnt have this. Mr R asked CTM for an email attachment showing that he had 
selected protected NCD. And this took some time to be provided. CTM offered Mr R £40 
compensation as a gesture of goodwill for this level of customer service. But Mr R thought 
£100 was more appropriate. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought CTM 
should have sent the requested information sooner than it did. But he thought its offer of 
compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Mr R replied that he hadnt received the information hed requested in a timely manner. He 
said that repeatedly requesting this had affected his health and taken up his time. Mr R 
asked for an ombudsmans review. So his complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has told us that he protects his NCD for peace of mind. So I can understand that he 
was frustrated and disappointed that this wasnt added to his policy as he intended. From 
what Ive seen I think its been established that Mr R selected protected NCD on CTMs 
website. And this was then passed through to the insurers website. But I cant comment on 
what may have gone wrong there as this is a separate business.
Mr R wanted to sort this out and CTM sent Mr R an email confirming what he had inputted 
on its website. But Mr R asked CTM to provide him with an uneditable version of what he 
had inputted. But it took it a month for it to provide this. 
I can see that CTM accepts that it didnt send Mr R the information he requested directly. It 
sent it to the insurance provider and then chased up the provider to respond to Mr R. There 
appears to have been some confusion about what Mr R was requesting. But CTM accepts 
that Mr R had to ask for this information on more than one occasion. And I can see that this 
was five times over the space of a month. 
When a business makes a mistake, as CTM accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
CTM eventually provided Mr R with the information he needed in the required format. So I 
think that restored his position. 
Mr R asked for compensation for his time and he quoted an hourly rate. But, as our 
Investigator has already explained, this isnt something that we would usually consider. This 
is because some inconvenience is to be expected in dealing with such issues. And our 
published guidance sets out the levels of awards we consider fair and reasonable in a 
variety of circumstances. 
I can see that Mr R told CTM that he wanted the NCD problem resolved as this was affecting 
his mental health. And I think the delay in CTM providing the requested information caused 
him avoidable frustration and time spent corresponding. 
But I agree with the Investigator that the £40 compensation that CTM offered for the trouble 
and upset caused was fair and reasonable and in keeping with our published guidance. I 
dont require CTM to increase this. I think its for Mr R to contact CTM again if he wants to 
accept this offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman