DRN-3355333
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has paid money to another company 
via Direct Debit (DD) when it wasn't authorised to do so.
For the purposes of this decision I will refer to this other company as S
What happened
Mr W is a customer of S and has an agreement with them to make payments to them.
On 8 October 2020 S set up a DD on Mr W's Barclays account. Mr W's Barclays bank 
statements show there were at least two attempts to take payment each month from 
November 2020 until May 2021. Each of these payments were returned as unpaid.
The initial request for payment in November 2020 was for £80, this was followed by another 
request for £140 six days later. When this payment request was returned as unpaid S wrote 
to Mr W letting him know his DD had failed. Mr W then entered into a conversation with S 
where he was trying to arrange a more suitable payment date for his DD to be collected from 
his Barclays account. S told Mr W that during this time it had cancelled the original DD 
instruction and there were no active repayment requests set up on his account.
Mr W later became aware that the payment requests had continued up until May 2021. He 
contacted Barclays via online chat to query why this was happening. Barclays advised him 
that the DD set up by S was still active, and it was S that was requesting payment each 
month.
Mr W complained as he was upset with this and felt Barclays was lying to him as S had 
already told him the DD had been cancelled. Mr W also believed that the Barclays agents on 
the online chat had been rude to him when dealing with his query. He said this had made 
him unwell and he requested compensation for this.
Following the complaint, Barclays cancelled the DD instruction. But didn't uphold Mr W's 
complaint as it believed it had treated him fairly. Mr W disagreed and so brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered Mr W's complaint but didn't feel it was one that should be 
upheld, in summary she said:
she had reviewed the chat history and although she thought there was some 
miscommunication at the start of the chat she didn't feel the agents had acted 
inappropriately when dealing with Mr W's concerns. And the information they had 
given him was accurate.
She explained that the way a DD worked was that the originator (in this case S) had 
to request the money from the bank, rather than the bank sending the money. And 
so, the payment requests had to have come from S each month.
Although S had said there were no active payment requests set up on his account, 
unless S could provide evidence to show they had told Barclays to cancel it she 
couldn't fairly say Barclays had done anything wrong by allowing the DD to remain 
active.
Mr W disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman's decision. The matter 
has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr W that I've reached the same outcome as the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons, I'll explain.
I can understand the worry and upset Mr W must have felt when he realised that payments 
were being requested from his account each month without his knowledge. So, before I talk 
about the details of the DD I'd like to reassure Mr W that each request for payment was 
declined and no money has been deducted from his account, so he has not suffered any 
financial loss here.
When a DD is set up, it is done so by the company the money is going to be paid to, also 
known as the originator, in this case thats S. To initiate a DD instruction with the bank S 
needs to have the permission of the account holder, in this case Mr W. Mr W has not 
disputed that he gave permission to S to set up a DD, initially. So, I think it's fair to say the 
setup of the original DD was fine.
Once a DD is set up and active, the originator can request payment from the bank, and 
providing funds are available in that account the bank will authorise the payment. If the 
originator or the customer wants to cancel the DD instruction, they have to let the bank 
know.
S told Mr W, after the failed payment in November 2020, it no longer had an active DD 
instruction set up on his account, but it did not cancel this instruction with Barclays and so 
what it had told Mr W wasn't accurate. Mr W quite rightly thought he could rely on what S 
had told him, so, he also didn't contact Barclays to cancel the DD instruction. And so, the 
instruction remained active through to May 2021 when Mr W realised the payments were still 
being requested and raised his complaint. I'm satisfied based on this that Barclays hasn't 
done anything wrong when allowing the DD instruction to remain active, and to continue 
dealing with S's monthly requests for payment.
I have reviewed the online chat that took place between Mr W and Barclays agents, and I 
can't say those agents were rude to Mr W or that they gave him incorrect information. 
As I've said, I do understand how worrying this situation was for Mr W. But I believe the 
information given to him by S was incorrect and is what has led to confusion about what was 
happening with the DD. So it follows, I can't fairly say Barclays has treated Mr W unfairly, 
and so I won't be asking it to do anything different here.
I know Mr W will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve his dispute with Barclays  can do for him.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman