DRN-2115010
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc turned down their claim for storm 
damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D and Mrs D contacted AXA because a retaining boundary wall in their garden collapsed. 
They said that it was the result of storm damage. AXA assessed the damage and turned it 
down on the basis of it being gradual process loss, which wasnt an insured peril.
When Mr D and Mrs D complained to AXA, it maintained its decision to decline the claim. Mr 
D and Mrs D then complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said that she thought that it was more likely that the damage to the wall happened over 
time, rather than as a result of the storm.
As Mr D and Mrs D did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
So, first Ive looked at whether there were storm conditions around the time that the wall 
collapsed. Looking at weather data for that time period, I can see that the wind did reach 
speeds close to storm conditions on the day that the wall collapsed, although the closest 
weather station was about 20 miles away. So, whilst I cant say with certainty that there were 
storm conditions, I think the evidence shows that there were likely to be strong winds verging 
on storm conditions.
Ive then thought about whether the damage is consistent with damage a storm typically 
causes. I think that a storm could cause a wall to collapse, so Ive then looked at the details 
of the damage to this wall to see whether I think that particular damage is typical of a storm. 
Ive done this by looking at the assessments carried out by AXA, as well as the comments 
from Mr D and Mrs D. As part of this, I note that Mr D and Mrs D didnt think that the person 
who carried out the original assessment was qualified to do so. I have read his report and 
the evidence that he used to support this. Ive also considered the background of the 
surveyor and cant see that this shows that he wasnt qualified to carry out the survey. 
However, I also note that following Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint, AXA also got a senior loss 
adjuster and a chartered engineer to consider the findings and they all came to the same 
conclusion about the likely cause of damage to the wall. So, on the issue of whether 
appropriate people were appointed to assess the claim, I think that they were.
Looking at the findings, AXA concluded that there were a range of issues affecting the wall, 
including that it had an ongoing lean and that it showed signs of undulations and movement 
along the length of the way. I wouldnt consider these issues to be typical of a one-off storm 
event and, instead, think they indicate there were wider ongoing issues with the wall. So, I 
think the answer to the second question is no, I dont think that this damage is consistent 
with what a storm typically causes.
Turning to the third question, given what Ive already said above, it therefore follows that I 
dont think storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. Based on the surveyors 
findings and the supporting photographs, I think that the damage was more likely to be 
caused primarily by gradual deterioration and that this was highlighted by the storm or storm-
like conditions.
AXA found that there wasnt adequate through/ bonding stones between the inner and outer 
sections of the wall, there was also deterioration in the mortar and the wall had been pushed 
outward, causing it to lean and belly along its length. AXA thought that the outer section of 
wall had collapsed due to a build up of hydrostatic pressure over time. Thinking about this, in 
my view, AXA carried out an appropriate assessment and these were reasonable 
conclusions to draw from it. 
So I think it was reasonable for AXA to conclude that the wall collapsed due to gradual 
deterioration, rather than the storm being the main cause of the damage. I realise that this is 
different to Mr D and Mrs Ds view of the cause and I dont dismiss that, but I find AXAs 
reasons more persuasive and I think the assessments it carried out supports its view.
Im also aware that Mr D and Mrs D have said that doesnt refer to gradual deterioration. Ive 
looked at the policy and in the storm damages claim part it says:
This insurance policy is not designed to cover you for any gradual deterioration
So, I think the policy does explain that it doesnt cover damage caused in this way.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think it was reasonable for AXA to turn down this claim 
on the basis of it not being the result of storm damage, but instead as the result of gradual 
deterioration. On that basis, I dont uphold this complaint or require AXA to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman