DRN-3088346
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Plus500 UK Ltd dealt with his Contracts for Difference (CFD) 
contracts linked to the price of Oil in April 2020.
What happened
Mr K held a number of long positions in Plus500s oil CFD. He was betting the price of the 
contract would go up. Plus500s oil CFD was linked to the price of an oil futures contract. 
In April 2020 Plus500 informed Mr K its oil CFD would be rolling over. This meant it would 
change its pricing from the May 2020 futures contract to the June 2020 one. This happened 
on 16 April 2020. 
Over the next few days the price of the June contract, and therefore Mr Ks CFD, fell sharply, 
resulting in Mr K suffering a loss. He complained. He said hed not been properly informed of 
the impact of the rollover, and he disputed the rates Plus500 had used. He said for that 
period of time Plus500s CFD hadnt properly reflected market rates, and this had inevitably 
caused him a loss as the prices converged.
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt think Plus500 had acted unfairly. In 
summary, she said:
The link between the CFD and a given futures contract was clearly explained as a 
feature of the contract.
Plus500 had told Mr K about the possibility of a rollover to a new futures contract and 
what that would entail.
The terms gave Plus500 the right to choose when to roll a contract, and she felt it 
had exercised that discretion fairly here.
The losses Mr K suffered were a result of market movements and not because 
Plus500 had treated him unfairly.
Mr K didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. He said that Plus500 
had chosen to roll his contract in a way that meant hed suffer a loss as the prices of the two 
converged. He didnt think this was fair and didnt think Plus500 had given him market rates 
throughout his CFD contracts lifetime.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr K was trading Plus500s oil CFD. The firm explained that this contract was linked to a 
publicly traded futures contract in oil. This is crucial. Where people trade or refer to the spot 
price of oil this is a price usually linked to the closest futures contract, reflecting the nearest 
point in time the futures market assesses the oil price. So for the most part, where Mr K may 
have seen other sources talking about the oil price this would relate in some way to the 
nearest future contract  at the relevant time that was the May 2020 contract. This was, up 
until 16 April 2020, the contract his CFD was linked to. So the prices he saw elsewhere were 
similar to the prices he was getting for his CFD.
But his CFD could be rolled to a subsequent contract. Im satisfied this was provided for in 
clause 13.4 of the terms of business Mr K signed up to. Plus500 said it might vary the exact 
timing of any rollover and that it would tell him about it. Im satisfied that here, Plus500 told 
Mr K it would roll his position to the June contract a day before it did so, and that this 
information was also on the product page on Plus500s website.
When that rollover took place, Plus500 would change the price of its CFD to reflect the next 
futures contract, and adjust Mr Ks account accordingly. The adjustment was to compensate 
for the difference in price between the contracts. In effect, it would put Mr K in the position as 
if his CFD had always been following the June contract, rather than the May one. Were he to 
close his position immediately after the rollover, hed make the same profit or loss as if hed 
closed it just before.
Im satisfied that this is consistent with the terms of business and the idea behind the 
rollover. Mr Ks CFD was effectively a bet on the price of different futures contracts that 
would change from time to time. This was the bet he signed up to and Im persuaded that it 
was operated as intended. Ive looked at the rates Plus500 used to carry out the rollover and 
Im persuaded they reflected the underlying market rates of the two futures contracts at the 
relevant times. 
The real issue here is the timing of Plus500s decision. Mr K believes by rolling his contract 
when it did, it caused him a loss. This is a result of the fact the June future fell following the 
rollover, and by more than would have been the case had his CFD remained linked to the 
May contract over the same period of time.
Plus500s terms gave it the discretion to choose when to carry out the rollover. Its explained 
it did so when it did here (earlier than it usually would) because of the sharp volatility in the 
underlying markets at the time  oil prices had fallen dramatically, and would in fact trade at 
negative prices for a short while, after the start of the global pandemic. Plus500 says due to 
this volatility, which was more likely to impact prices in the short term, and therefore the 
nearest dated future, it chose to roll to the June contract a bit earlier. I dont think this was an 
unreasonable exercise of Plus500s discretion. I cant see that the firm stood to gain or lose 
by different timing of the rollover, and Im satisfied it took its decision with the interests of its 
customers in mind, where greater volatility and uncertainty may have increased the risk of 
loss to clients.
Im also mindful that Mr Ks dissatisfaction is a result of what we now know happened to both 
the May and June oil futures immediately after his position was rolled. The rollover meant his 
CFD was now going to make or lose money in line with the June future, rather than the May 
one. While there is clearly a relationship between different futures contracts of the same 
underlying commodity, they dont move in lockstep. So, after the event, it can turn out to be 
the case that a rollover would have been better or worse at different times  depending 
on how the two futures contracts behave in relation to each other over that period.
Crucially, Plus500 had no way of knowing what the respective movements of the two futures 
would be at the time it took its decision. Its equally plausible and possible that the contracts would have moved in a way that Mr K was better off having had his position rolled earlier. I 
dont think it would be fair to make Plus500 pay Mr K compensation on the basis that wasnt 
the case with hindsight.
Overall I find that Plus500 reasonably exercised its discretion to choose the time to change 
Mr Ks CFD from being based on one futures contract to another. It carried this out using the 
underlying market rates at the time and in such a way as Mr K was effectively changed from 
a bet on the May future to a bet on the June future. This was the way the product was 
supposed to work. I dont find the timing of Plus500s decision to be unfair or unreasonable, 
and therefore I dont think it would be fair to require it to put Mr K in the position hed have 
been in had it made a different decision.
I have sympathy for Mr K and the losses hes suffered. But Im satisfied Plus500 operated 
his CFD trades as it said it would, and his losses resulted from the different markets that 
CFD was linked to at various times moving against him. It follows that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman