DRN-3126685
The complaint
Mr P complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard and their decision to 
approve his credit card application and subsequent credit limit increases. 
What happened
Mr P applied for a credit card account with Barclays in July 2013. This application was 
approved and Mr P was given an initial credit limit of £7,600. Mr Ps credit limit was 
increased to £9,100 in March 2015 and again to £10,600 in October 2016. From 2017, 
Barclays started to reduce Mr Ps limit to its final total of £3,850.
In 2018, Mr P started experiencing financial difficulty. He made Barclays aware of this and to 
recognise this, Barclays provided Mr P with several interest and fee refunds, interest stops 
and re-installation of promotional balances. They also asked that Mr P speak to their 
dedicated financial difficulties team.
Mr P contacted Barclays again in 2020 and he was asked to contact the financial difficulties 
team. And in July 2020, Barclays issued a letter to its customers explaining theyd reviewed 
customers accounts and recognised some customers had been lent to irresponsibly. But 
they didnt think Mr P was one of those. 
But Mr P was unhappy about this so he raised a complaint. Mr P thought the credit limit hed 
been provided was too high which had made it difficult for him to maintain his minimum 
monthly payment. He thought this had contributed to his financial difficulties. Mr P also 
explained hed used his account to fund his gambling addiction and thought Barclays 
shouldve realised this and taken action to prevent it. So, Mr P was the interest and charges 
applied to his account to be refunded to him.
Barclays responded and upheld Mr Ps complaint in party. They thought their decision to 
approve Mr Ps credit card account was fair. And they thought the interest charges to the 
account was standard and made clear at this point. They also didnt think they shouldve 
been able to recognise Mr Ps gambling addiction through the transactions hed made. But 
they did think they may have set Mr Ps credit limit too high and offered Mr P £75 to 
recognise the inconvenience this caused. And they invited Mr P to speak to their financial 
difficulties team to look at repayment options moving forward. Mr P remained unhappy with 
this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Initially, Barclays didnt consent to our service looking at their initial decision to lend to Mr P 
as it happened more than six years before Mr P contacted our service. But our investigator 
thought we should consider it, as Mr P had raised his complaint within three years of when 
he ought to have been reasonably aware he had cause to complain. Barclays accepted this 
and our investigator continued to look into the whole lifetime of the account.
And having done so, our investigator upheld the complaint. They thought the checks 
Barclays completed when initially lending to Mr P in 2013 were fair. And they didnt think 
there was information available at the time that shouldve suggested to Barclays that the 
account, and the limit of £7,600, was unaffordable. So, they didnt think Barclays had done 
anything wrong at this point.
But our investigator didnt think Barclays had completed proportionate checks before 
increasing Mr Ps credit limit in both 2015 and 2016. And our investigator thought if Barclays 
had completed proportionate checks, they wouldve realised the increases were unaffordable 
for Mr P. So, our investigator thought Barclays should refund Mr P any interest and charges, 
that hadnt already been refunded, that were applied to his account after March 2015 on any 
balance over the initial credit limit of £7,600. If this left a capital refund owing to Mr P, our 
investigator thought this should also include 8% statutory interest. They also thought any 
negative information should be removed from Mr Ps credit file from March 2015. And finally, 
they thought Barclays should pay Mr P an additional £125 to recognise the upset and 
inconvenience hed been caused.
Both Mr P and Barclays accepted this recommendation. But Mr P disputed the refund hed 
been provided by Barclays when they followed our investigators outcome. Mr P thought the 
remedy recommended was directing Barclays to refund any interest applied to his account 
from March 2015. But our investigator explained only the interest charged on balances over 
£7,600 should be refunded as they thought Barclays initial decision to lend, and the 
associated limit, was fair. Mr P didnt think this was fair and didnt taking into consideration 
the impact his account with Barclays had on his financial situation and the distress this 
caused. As Mr P wasnt happy with this, the complaint has been referred to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr P. I dont dispute Mr Ps 
testimony that the account had a significant impact on his financial situation. And I recognise 
how difficult it wouldve been for Mr P to maintain his financial commitments while he was 
experiencing difficulty and the upset and worry this wouldve caused. I also appreciate this 
wouldve been made worse by Mr Ps gambling addiction and how hard it wouldve been to 
recognise and overcome this. So, I can understand why Mr P attributes much of this 
suffering to Barclays and the account they provided and the credit limits they set.
Im aware both Mr P and Barclays accepted our investigators view that, while Barclays initial 
decision to lend was fair, their decision to increase Mr Ps credit limit in both March 2015 and 
October 2016 wasnt. As this has been accepted by both parties, I dont intend to discuss 
this further. 
Instead, Ive considered the main dispute which in this case is the way in which Barclays 
have calculated the interest refund when following our investigators recommendation. Mr P 
doesnt think its reasonable for Barclays to only refund the interest applied to his account on 
balances over £7,600, the initial credit limit he was provided in 2013. Mr P thinks all interest 
applied to his account from March 2015 should be refunded in order to recognise the 
financial impact the account had on his situation and the upset this caused. 
Putting things rightAny direction or award I make is intended to place Mr P back in the position he wouldve 
been, had Barclays acted reasonably in the first place. Im unable to place Mr P in a position 
of betterment as that isnt something this service can do.
In this situation, if Barclays had acted reasonably, they wouldve completed further checks 
before deciding to increase Mr Ps credit limit. And if theyd done so, Im satisfied the 
information these checks wouldve provided wouldve shown to Barclays that the limit 
increases were unaffordable. So, if Barclays had acted reasonably, I dont think Mr Ps credit 
limit wouldve been increased from the initial £7,600 limit he was given.
So, in order to place Mr P back in the position wouldve been in, I think Barclays should 
refund any interest and charges applied to his account on any balance over £7,600 from 
March 2015, when the first increase was applied. This doesnt include any interest or 
charges that have already been refunded. And I think they should add 8% statutory interest 
to any capital refund Mr P is owed from the date the interest was paid to the date of refund.
Im unable to say that any interest and charges should be refunded from this date, as its 
already been accepted by both parties that Barclays initial decision to lend was fair. So, Mr P 
wouldve always had an available credit limit of £7,600 and any outstanding balance up to 
this limit wouldve always incurred interest and charges, in line with the terms and conditions 
of the agreement and any promotional interest rates that were in place. So, while I recognise 
Mr Ps comments about the impact the account and its balance had on his finances and 
personal situation, I think its only the balance over £7,600 that Barclays lent irresponsibly 
and so, only that amount that should be considered when refunding the interest and 
charges.
I also think Barclays should remove any negative credit information reported to Mr Ps credit 
file from March 2015. This is because their failure to lend to Mr P responsibly left him with an 
unaffordable amount of credit which he struggled to maintain. Had Barclays acted fairly, I 
dont think Mr P wouldve been placed in this position.
Our investigator also recommended Barclays pay Mr P an additional £125 to recognise the 
upset Mr P was caused by their irresponsible lending. I think this recommendation is a fair 
one, and in line with what I wouldve awarded had it not already been suggested. I think it 
fairly recognises the difficulties Mr P faced when trying to maintain the monthly payments of 
a credit limit higher than he could reasonably afford. But also takes into consideration the 
actions Barclays took during 2018 when Mr P made them aware he was facing these 
difficulties and Barclays offer to Mr P of contacting and working with their financial difficulties 
team.
I understand this isnt the whole outcome Mr P was hoping for. But I hope it explains clearly 
why I think Barclays have acted reasonably, following our recommendations, when 
calculating the refund owed to Mr P.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard and I direct them to take the following action:
Refund any interest and charges applied to Mr Ps account (that havent already 
been refunded) after 2015 that relate to any balance over £7,600;
If this results in Mr P being owed a capital refund, add 8% statutory interest from the 
date the interest and charges were paid to the date of refund;Remove any adverse information from Mr Ps credit file reported after March 2015; 
and
Pay Mr P £125 to recognise the upset hes been caused by Barclays decision to 
increase his credit limits.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman