DRN-3169703
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Gaudi Regulated Services Limited (GRSL) allowed the transfer of 
his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) when it shouldnt have done. Hes said GRSL 
didnt carry out the required due diligence and as a result transferred his pension to a bank 
account not in the name of the scheme. He feels that because of this he has now lost all of 
his monies.
What happened
In late 2018 Mr W says he was contacted by an individual who offered him a review of his 
pension. He says at the time he was unhappy with the performance of the SIPP and that it 
had lost considerable value. He was recommended he transfer his SIPP to the Organic 
Insurance Limited Pension Scheme (the scheme), a defined contribution occupational 
pension scheme (OPS). He has also explained he was told that he would get a £5,000 
joining fee if he transferred.
Mr W signed the transfer request form in November 2018 and this was received by GRSL on 
6 December 2018. GRSL says it received confirmation of the schemes registration with Her 
Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) on 14 January 2019 along with a statement from 
HMRC that there was no significant risk of the organic scheme being set up or used to 
facilitate pension liberation.
The transfer was completed on 30 January 2019 and was made to a bank account in the 
name of the sponsoring employer  Organic Insurance Limited. Mr W has said the transfer 
should have been made to the scheme account and the company to which the transfer was 
made is now in liquidation.
In December 2019 The Pension Regulator (TPR) appointed Dalriada as trustees to look into 
the scheme and to investigate the actions of the former trustees and safeguard the schemes 
assets.
In response to Mr Ws complaint GRSL said that as the scheme was an OPS it deemed the 
risks of transfer to be low. It also said it transferred to the account details which had been 
confirmed in the schemes letter from December 2018 and therefore it was entitled to rely on 
those details. It also stated that the bank account being in the name of the sponsoring 
employer was not something unusual and wasnt a sign of a potential scam or fraud.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it should be upheld. He 
was of the view that GRSL should have sent Mr W the scorpion leaflet (The Pension 
Regulators (TPR) anti-pension scam leaflet, which was a requirement of TPR scorpion 
guidance launched in February 2013). He also felt GRSL should have followed another 
piece of guidance, The Pension Scams Industry Group (PSIG) Code of Good Practice, 
which was prevalent at the time. And had GRSL done so it would have checked the bank 
account to where it was transferring the monies and realised the account was incorrect.  It 
therefore would have been in a position to make further enquiries about the scheme and the 
transfer and consider the possibility of there being a scam involved.
GRSL didnt agree with the assessment and responded through their solicitors with the 
following comments:
HMRC confirmed there was no indication of a significant risk of the scheme being 
used or set up to facilitate a pension liberation.
When transferring to a pension scheme there is always the risk that the company can 
enter administration. This is not a foreseeable outcome and therefore due diligence 
measures cannot prevent this.
PSIG recommends that trustees carry out proportionate due diligence processes. 
GRSL is not satisfied proportionality has been considered.
GRSL wasnt required to carry out further due diligence as the scheme was an 
established provider and there were no red flags to raise concerns of any pensions 
scam.
The Determination Notice and intervention of the TPR in the scheme is said to have 
followed the almost wholesale transfer of scheme funds by the former trustees to 
Organics employer account. Therefore, even if the funds had been paid into an 
account in the name of the scheme it is likely Mr W would be in the same position as 
he is now.
It felt no need to check for an employment link because of the regulated status of the 
insurer providing the OPS.
Further questioning of Mr W was not required unless there were sufficient red flags 
that warranted further investigation  this transfer request didnt do that. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his initial outcome. So as no agreement could 
be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator.
In making my decision I have considered whether GRSL did all it should have done in 
assessing whether this transfer posed any risk to Mr W and whether it was reasonable it 
wasnt triggered to suspect anything by the bank account to which the transfer was being 
made being in a different name to that of the scheme.
What principles, rules and guidance apply to this case?
It is first important to understand what rules and guidance were in existence at the time Mr W 
requested the transfer of his pension  late 2018 to early 2019 and what the general context 
was in relation to pension scams and fraud within the financial services industry.
Personal pension providers, like GRSL, are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Prior to April 2013, they were regulated by the FCAs predecessor, the Financial 
Services Authority (FSA). There has never been any specific FSA/FCA rules on the checks 
transferring providers need to make before someone can transfer from a personal pension.
However, the FCA Handbook sets out principles and rules that firms must adhere to, such as 
to conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence, and pay due regard to the 
interests of their customers and treat them fairly. 
The Pension Regulators (TPR) Scorpion Guidance:At the time of Mr Ws transfer, pension scams had become quite prevalent due to the recent 
pension reforms which allowed for greater flexibility and access to pension funds. In 
response to this The Pensions Regulator (TPR), as well as other industry bodies including 
FSA/FCA, acted to educate and alert retirement savers, pension administrators and trustees 
to the risks involved in relation to transferring out of their pensions. A campaign was 
launched, known as the scorpion campaign and TPR first released guidance on this issue 
(known as the scorpion guidance) on 14 February 2013 (this was subsequently updated 
several times over the next few years).
Briefly, the scorpion campaign involved providing an action pack that highlighted the 
warning signs present in a number of transfer examples, specifically: being cold-called, 
money being transferred overseas, incentives to transfer, inadequate information about 
investments and pressure to complete a transfer quickly. It suggested transferring schemes 
should look out for these issues, as well as receiving occupational schemes that were 
newly registered or were suddenly involved in multiple transfer requests.
The action pack provided a checklist schemes could use which suggested asking the 
member for copies of promotional materials, emails or letters about the scheme and for 
further details about how they became aware of the receiving scheme and how it had been 
described to them. If those enquiries established the member had been advised, it went on 
to suggest checking whether the adviser had been registered with the FSA/FCA. Where 
transferring schemes had concerns, they were encouraged to consider delaying the transfer 
and to seek legal advice.
The scorpion campaign also included:
An insert to issue to members when a transfer pack was requested. The insert warns 
about offers to cash-in pensions early, cash incentives, cold calling, being put under 
pressure to transfer and the potential tax consequences of accessing pensions early.
A longer insert which gives more information, including real life examples, about 
pension liberation. This was to be used in order to help raise awareness about 
pension liberation amongst pension scheme members.
The Pension Scams Industry Group (PSIG) Code of Good Practice:
The version of the scorpion action pack from the time of Mr Ws transfer also referred to a 
Code of Good Practice which had been developed by the Pension Liberation Industry Group 
(PLIG), subsequently renamed Pension Scams Industry Group (PSIG). This became 
effective from 16 March 2015 (updated in 2018) and set an industry standard for dealing with 
pension transfer requests from members to a UK registered pension scheme or a QROPS.
The Code was written by a group made up of stakeholders including trustee administrators, 
legal advisers and insurers and was reviewed by a wide group of industry bodies and 
organisations to ensure broad acceptance and encourage widespread adoption of its 
principles. It aimed to help trustees/providers ensure only a valid transfer was made as well 
as helping to put the member in a position to make an informed choice in relation to a valid 
transfer where there were suspicious circumstances. Essentially the code set out a detailed 
structure for the due diligence process to be carried out by trustees and administrators along 
with sample questions to ask the member throughout the transfer process to ensure the 
transfer was a valid one.
In my view, the scorpion guidance and the PSIG code worked together. It wasnt a case of administrators following one or the other. TPR expected all trustees and administrators to 
follow the Scorpion guidance. It was also endorsed by FSA, which meant FSA-regulated 
firms ought to have given it similar attention as they would to other guidance issued by FSA. 
Furthermore, the scorpion action pack referred to the PSIG Code of Good Practice, which 
was welcomed by TPR, so while there is no explicit instruction as such to use the PSIG 
code I think it would have been good industry practice to do so.
I therefore consider its fair and reasonable for GRSL to have followed both these guidance 
documents as they represented good industry practice for transferring personal pension 
schemes. It would also have been helpful to GRSL to do so, because the scorpion checklist 
included a large number of questions  whereas the PSIG Code gave further guidance on 
which questions could be used as a filter in order to identify those transfers on which the 
fullest amount of due diligence would be required.
Its also worth noting that pension scams and frauds were increasing significantly at this 
point in time. Scammers were finding new and sometimes innovative ways of committing the 
fraud and seemed to have developed as the regulators knowledge, guidance and prevention 
methods also developed.
Did GRSL act in line with these rules and principles
When receiving the transfer GRSL has confirmed it checked with HMRC about the 
registration of the scheme which HMRC confirmed. GRSL has also said that as the scheme 
was an OPS operated by a UK based insurance company also authorised and regulated by 
the FCA it didnt feel there was any risk that warranted the sending of the scorpion leaflet. 
And therefore it proceeded with the transfer without taking any further action. It also said that 
following the PSIG guidance wasnt mandatory and even if it had the questions posed at the 
start would have meant the scheme wouldnt have been flagged as a potential risk.
In my view, by not sending the scorpion leaflet GRSL didnt follow the guidance issued by 
TPR. The guidance was well established at this point in time and it was expected by TPR 
that the members scorpion leaflet was sent to all individuals requesting a transfer pack. The 
scorpion guidance for administrators and providers doesnt ask them to consider whether 
there is any risk and then send the leaflet  it states the leaflet should be sent when a 
transfer pack is requested. So, I see no justification as to why GRSL didnt send it. Sending 
the leaflet would have ensured Mr W was fully informed of the risk of transferring his pension 
and potential scams and could have led him to question his decision. 
TPR also stated that if a member requests the transfer of a pension its really important for 
pension administrators to make sure they understand the risks and that they could end up 
with a large tax bill on top of losing all their savings. It said the pension administrator can 
point the member to the The Pension Advisory Service (TPAS) or Pension Wise and the 
administrator itself can ensure it has done all of its due diligence. To help with that TPR 
provided a checklist which could be used to identify any red flags in the receiving scheme, 
as mentioned above.
The questions within the checklist were about the scheme the pension was being transferred 
to; the manner in which the scheme had been promoted to the member; and the member 
himself. It also stated that answering yes to one of these questions individually may not 
necessarily indicate a pension scam but if several features are present there may be cause 
for concern.
Some of the questions were:
Was the scheme registered with HMRCWas the scheme operator authorised with the FCA (if it was a SIPP)
Was the scheme sponsored by an employer geographically distant from the member.
Did promotion of the scheme include words such as loan, cash incentive, bonus, 
loophole or allude to overseas investment
And had the member:
Been contacted by an introducer
Been advised by a non-regulated adviser
Taken no advice
Decided to transfer after receiving cold calls, unsolicited emails or text messages.
Pressured to carry out the transfer as quick as possible
Been told they can access their pension before 55.
Its clear these questions prompted a provider to engage with the member to ask it for this 
information ensuring that both the provider and member are given all the information TPR 
and FCA required about the transfer at the time. 
Turning now to the PSIG, this would have helped GRSL prioritise which questions to 
consider first and determine if further due diligence was required. GRSL has confirmed that it 
didnt follow it stating there is no statutory basis for the code and it does not constitute rules 
for firms to follow. However, as I have already said above, scorpion endorsed the PSIG 
Code and they should have been used together. It wasnt a case of administrators choosing 
whether to follow one or the other. 
The PSIG Code is an extensive and detailed document which takes the pension provider 
through all the steps necessary to aid its due diligence process. In working through this 
guidance at the beginning a provider is asked to undertake a transfer request initial analysis 
process and consider whether the transfer is being made to an established provider or public 
sector scheme. GRSL says it would have answered yes had it followed the PSIG due to the 
regulated status of the sponsoring employer and therefore would have been directed by the 
guidance to proceed with the transfer as it would be deemed to be low risk. However I dont 
consider this would have been a reasonable answer for GRSL to give.  
The term established provider on PSIGs flowchart was explained by reference to Section 
6.2.1 Risk Triage, which implies that it means: Is this a recognised club or group transfer 
(e.g. Public-Sector Transfer Club, known group or recipient)? This wording could have been 
phrased better but to me that reads as that the transfer is to a receiving scheme or recipient 
within a known group, and it uses the public sector transfer club as an example.
I say this as the possibility that the recipient itself is known to GRSL is covered separately 
at the next stage in the PSIG flowchart: Has your organisation identified the administrator/ 
scheme and known associates (director, shareholders) as not presenting a risk of pension 
scam activity?. In other words, has GRSL already white-listed the scheme?
Im not aware that the receiving scheme was part of an established group in a similar sense 
to the public sector transfer club nor am I aware that the request came through a system 
such as Origo, which in itself also wouldnt make the receiving scheme part of an established 
group either. And the fact the sponsoring employer was an FCA-regulated firm doesnt in my 
view solely determine whether the scheme itself should be white-listed. It would clearly be 
relevant as part of an overall determination, but GRSL hasnt explained what further 
elements it would have considered in addition to this.
So I would have thought the answer to this question should have been a no which 
therefore would have led GRSL to considering some further questions from the guidance about the transfer as part of its due diligence.
It is also stated in the PSIG guidance at section 6.2 that the purpose of this stage of the 
process is to decide whether detailed due diligence is required.  It goes on to state the 
guidance is in addition to schemes normal transfer processes. It should be expected that 
during the course of the normal transfer processes schemes would collect the following 
information as a minimum:
Member requesting transfer: name and address; and
Receiving scheme: name address HMRC registration number payment details type 
of scheme and identity of the scheme administrators.
So even if it had white listed the scheme GRSL had to make sure through its normal 
processes that the correct information was obtained and this included the payment details. 
And given the bank account details were not that of the scheme I cant conclude that GRSL 
satisfied this requirement. 
If the scheme was not white listed the PSIG Code takes the reader through a number of 
other stages prompting the provider to ask further questions about the transfer and the 
circumstances surrounding it. And this would have required GRSL to have engaged further 
with Mr W. GRSL did not do this, so it cannot demonstrate that full due diligence was not 
required on this transfer as a result. 
There is then a section in the PSIG Code which refers specifically to transfer to an OPS , 
which is relevant in this complaint. It states that where the payment into the occupational 
pension scheme is not to be made direct to the trustees account an explanation needs to be 
provided why the payment is being made to a different account. And it also states that for an 
OPS this is poor practice and goes on to say that the providers internal controls may not 
allow this and might be suspicious  please seek a written explanation.
It is therefore clear that the bank account details must be in the name of the scheme unless 
there is a valid reason why not. GRSL is mistaken in its assertion that there isnt anything 
wrong with the account for transferring the pension being in the name of the sponsoring 
employer. The assets of an OPS are meant to be held under trust separately from an 
employer, so an OPS does not go into administration in the same way the employer might. 
The whole point is that the OPSs assets are meant to be kept separate from the fortunes of 
the employer. For the OPS assets to be lost there would have to be a breach of trust on the 
part of the trustees in charge of them. Had GRSL followed the PSIG Code as the scorpion 
guidance asked it to do, it should have been led to question this matter further.
As well as the payment details needing to be precise this section also states there should be 
a clear link between the scheme employer and member and again, we know this wasnt 
established by GRSL. It is also stated that OPSs are not usually marketed to third parties. 
The PSIG Code already said by this point that GRSL should have contacted Mr W to find out 
how he was introduced to the scheme, which is consistent with the some of the key 
questions Ive already bulleted above from the scorpion checklist.
GRSL has made the point that the PSIG Code says where the provider of the scheme is 
FCA-registered that appropriate FCA registration should give substantial comfort that the 
scheme has not been established for suspicious purposes. So, it therefore wouldnt have 
gotten as far as reaching the section in the guidance directed at transfer to the OPS. But this 
was only one of the aspects that needed to be weighed up as part of the full due diligence 
that was expected on this transfer, and I think GRSL is mistaken about its significance. 
The reference PSIG makes to FCA regulation of an OPS is where the OPS is an insured scheme, i.e. the scheme itself is provided/operated by an insurance company on behalf of 
the trustees. In that event the insurance company should be FCA regulated. Here, the 
sponsoring employer is a regulated firm and contains the word insurance in its name. But 
that does not mean its main line of business was administering pension schemes, which is 
what I think the PSIG Code was getting at. 
The FCA authorises a range of insurance activities including arranging and carrying out 
policies of insurance. That appears to have been the type of business Organic Insurance 
was involved in. This does not appear to have been an insured scheme as if it was, I would 
expect the transfer payment to be going into the trustees account where a reputable insurer 
known for operating pension schemes would then be managing it. Theres no evidence of 
any other firms involvement in this scheme.
Fundamentally, by not issuing the scorpion leaflet to Mr W and not following the scorpion 
action pack (which in turn would have led to PSIG being used) GRSL failed to act in 
accordance with the appropriate guidance of the time. This led to GRSL failing to do 
anything about the bank account being in the name of the sponsoring employer rather than 
in the name of the scheme. This should have been something GRSL picked up on as being 
unusual and it should have contacted the scheme to get a reason why this was so. As this 
didnt happen I cant say what, if any, explanation would have been put forward. 
In my view the wrong bank account details provided to GRSL should have been viewed as a 
red flag. This should have also prompted GRSL to ask further questions given the scheme 
was an OPS to establish the link between the sponsoring employer and Mr W. 
Would Mr W have acted differently if GRSL had done what it should have?
The crux of this complaint is whether GRSL should have gone ahead with transferring the 
money to the wrong bank account, and separately to this whether Mr W would have changed 
his mind about transferring, if GRSL had engaged properly with him. Either of these has 
potentially resulted in the trustees that were appointed to the scheme not being able to 
recover the value of the investments made.
By not following the guidance as it should have GRSL allowed this to happen, whereas had 
it followed the guidance it should have questioned the scheme about the bank details and 
either received the correct details or been provided with an explanation as to why the 
transfer was not being made to the scheme account. GRSL would then have been able to 
decide based on the explanation it received whether it should consider delaying or blocking 
the transfer or not.
Im not in a position to say what might have happened, as this question wasnt asked at the 
time. Its possible the scheme would have confirmed a different bank account in the name of 
the scheme trustees, which as GRSL says would still evidently have been used to make 
inappropriate investments. But even if the bank account changed I think GRSL would still 
reasonably have had concerns about why it was sent the wrong details in the first place. A 
properly administered OPS with experienced administrators should have known that the 
employers assets should be kept separate from the OPS assets held under trust.
In my view this concern would have combined with other concerns GRSL should have 
established from the contact both the scorpion guidance and PSIG Code expected it to have 
with Mr W - such as Mr W being cold called and being offered a joining fee if he transferred 
his pension. And this should have led GRSL to establishing their understanding of the 
transfer Mr W was intending to make either by letter or a call. That should either have been 
part of the data gathering phone call or a follow-up letter afterwards.That was in addition to the Scorpion leaflet which Mr W should have received setting out the 
risk of scams in general. So Mr W would both have known that some transfers were scams 
and that some issues had been identified with his transfer. 
If this had happened, I dont think Mr W would have insisted this transfer go through had he 
seen the leaflet and been contacted by GRSL asking further questions. Mr W was suffering 
from a long-term illness and his pension was valuable to him due to it being unlikely he 
would have able to continue working to retirement. So had he been told of the potential for a 
scam and had triggers been highlighted to him I think he would have thought again about 
transferring.
And while GRSL feels that Mr W would have always ended up in the situation he is now in 
had the monies been transferred to the schemes bank account this obviously wouldnt be 
the case if Mr W hadnt transferred at all which is the conclusion of this decision.
In summary, as explained above I dont think it was reasonable for GRSL to have not sent 
Mr W the scorpion leaflet. This was required under TPR guidance. I am also not satisfied 
GRSL conducted the proper minimum checks of the bank account to which the transfer was 
being made. I also think GRSL should have followed the PSIG guidance that works hand in 
hand with the scorpion guidance and had it done so and questioned this would have led to 
Mr W thinking twice about his decision to transfer his pension.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr W should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if GRSL had treated him fairly.
The Organic Insurance Limited Pension Scheme only seems to have been used in order for 
Mr W to make an investment that I dont think he would have made but for GRSLs actions. 
So I think that Mr W would have remained in his pension plan with GRSL and wouldnt have 
transferred to the Organic Insurance Limited Pension Scheme.
I understand that a value for the Organic Insurance Limited Pension Scheme is unlikely to be 
available as the position of the investments made by the former trustees is uncertain. To 
compensate Mr W fairly, GRSL should determine the notional value of the policy Mr W 
formerly held with it, assuming it had continued running up to the date of my final decision.
Any pension commencement lump sum or gross income payments Mr W received directly 
from the Organic Insurance Limited Pension Scheme which would have been permitted 
under the tax rules (and are therefore not being treated as incentives below) should be 
treated as notional withdrawals from GRSL on the date(s) they were paid, so that they cease 
to take part in the calculation of notional value from those point(s) onwards. 
Incentives
A downward adjustment may be made to the notional value to allow for any indirect cash 
benefits (including loans) Mr W was paid as a result of the transfer and/or any payments the 
Organic Insurance Limited Pension Scheme made to him before the age of 55 that it should 
not have been allowed to make (together, the incentives). Mr W is expected to evidence to 
GRSL the total amount of any such incentives paid as soon as possible, otherwise he will 
not be able to benefit from any reimbursement or indemnity regarding unauthorised 
payment charges caused specifically by these incentives (covered below).
Where it applies, this adjustment for incentives involves calculating what larger, gross amount would ordinarily need to have been withdrawn from the pension over the course of 
Mr Ws retirement, to leave him a net amount equal to the total incentives. Here, its 
reasonable to assume that Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so a 75% portion of his pension would be taxed at 20% assuming he is 
entitled to take the remaining 25% portion tax-free. As a result his net benefits would equal 
85% of the gross benefits. So the total incentives (if any) should therefore be grossed-up by 
dividing them by 0.85, then they should be deducted from the notional value at the date of 
my final decision.
Payment of compensation
There doesnt appear to be any reason why Mr W needed a pension arrangement that 
wasnt privately held, administered by an established insurance company and under FCA 
regulation. So I dont think its appropriate for further compensation to be paid into? the 
Organic Insurance Limited Pension Scheme.
GRSL should reinstate Mr Ws pension plan as if had the notional value as determined on 
the date of my final decision (and it performs thereafter in line with the funds Mr W was 
invested in). 
GRSL shouldnt reinstate Mr Ws plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance  but my understanding is that it will be possible for it to reinstate a pension it 
formerly administered in order to rectify an administrative error that led to the transfer taking 
place. If that applies, the Financial Ombudsman Service considers reinstatement best 
achieves the aim of putting Mr W back into the position he would have been in, had this 
transfer not happened. So if GRSL doesnt consider this is possible, it must explain why. 
If GRSL is unable to reinstate Mr Ws pension and it is open to new business, it should set 
up a new plan equal to the notional value. The new plan should have features, costs and 
investment choices that are as close as possible to Mr Ws original pension. Its payment into 
the new plan should allow for the effect of charges and tax relief (if applicable). GRSL 
shouldnt set up a new plan if it considers that its payment will be treated as a member 
contribution in excess of Mr Ws annual allowance, and GRSL is unable to process the 
amount in excess of the annual allowance.
If its not possible to set up a new plan either, GRSL must pay the compensation amount 
direct to Mr W. But if this money had been in a pension, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore compensation paid in this way should be reduced to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
To make this reduction, its reasonable to assume that Mr W is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so a 75% portion of his pension would be taxed at 
20% assuming he is entitled to take the remaining 25% portion tax-free. This results in an 
overall reduction of 15%, which should be applied to the compensation amount if its paid 
direct to Mr W.
Reimbursement, indemnity and undertakings
In addition, GRSL must reimburse Mr W for any unauthorised payment tax charges that 
have been levied against him personally by HMRC arising out of the funds transferred here. 
And it must also indemnify Mr W against any such charges arising in future as a result of 
unauthorised payments deemed to have been made before the date of my final decision.
The reimbursement or indemnity does not apply in respect of any incentives (as defined 
above) that Mr W does not promptly give details of (including their amounts) to GRSL at the 
date of my final decision.GRSL may also ask Mr W to provide an undertaking to do either of the following, when the 
value of his entitlement under the Organic Insurance Limited Pension Scheme has been 
finalised:
- Make a full transfer of his entitlement back out of the Organic Insurance Limited 
Pension Scheme to GRSLs pension plan. GRSL may then recover that value from 
its pension plan so that Mr W isnt overcompensated. 
Or, if this isnt possible:
- Withdraw the proceeds of his entitlement from the Organic Insurance Limited 
Pension Scheme as tax-free cash and income payments over a period of time 
agreed between GRSL and Mr W, so that the net amount Mr W receives can be 
returned to GRSL and he is not overcompensated.
- GRSL will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If GRSL asks Mr W 
to provide this undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be 
dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of GRSL receiving Mr Ws 
acceptance of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. 
This interest is not required if GRSL is reinstating Mr Ws plan  as the reinstated sum 
should, by definition, mirror the performance after the date of my final decision of the funds 
in which Mr W was invested.
Details of the calculation must be provided to Mr W in a clear, simple format.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Gaudi Regulated Services Limited to pay Mr W the redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman