DRN-3278311
The complaint
Mr B has complained about American International Group UK Limiteds (AIG) handling of 
claims on his mobile phone insurance policy.
Reference to AIG includes its agents.
What happened
Mr B has a mobile phone insurance policy as a benefit of his bank account. The cover for 
that policy is provided by AIG. He contacted AIG to say his phone was cracked and faulty. 
AIG sent out a replacement but Mr B wasn't happy with the quality of that or four other 
replacement handsets that AIG sent to him over the coming weeks. On two occasions it sent 
him models which were upgrades from the handset Mr B had returned. He remained 
unhappy with AIGs service, so AIG treated his remarks as complaints. 
AIG acknowledged it hadn't got everything right and said compensation was due. But it said 
Mr B had still not returned one of the handsets hed reported as faulty and which AIG had 
since replaced. It noted that on three occasions, rather than receiving the faulty handsets it 
was expecting to receive, AIG had received other phones, two of which were a different 
brand/make of mobile phone than AIG expected to receive. So, it said it wouldn't pay Mr B 
compensation for the impact of its failings until he had sent back the missing handsets. Mr B 
returned two of the three handsets. But to date AIG says it hasn't received the third missing 
handset, so it hasn't yet paid compensation.
Mr B brought his complaint about AIG to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He said 
he could see that AIG hadn't got everything right. And he thought compensation of £400 
would be warranted to address Mr Bs distress and inconvenience because of that. But he 
felt it was reasonable, given the value of the outstanding handset, for AIG to defer paying 
that compensation until it had received the missing phone. He added that it was reasonable 
for AIG not to refund Mr Bs excess.
Mr B didn't accept our investigator's assessment of the complaint so its been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his dealings with AIG Mr Bs made reference to a number of detailed points. I've 
considered everything on file carefully. But in this decision I don't intend to refer to each and 
every issue. Instead I will focus on what I see as the key outstanding points.  
Was it fair for AIG to keep Mr Bs £100 excess?
When Mr B originally claimed to replace his faulty handset AIG charged him a £100 excess. I 
don't find that unusual or unfair as Mr Bs policy is quite clear that for a successful claim, 
involving replacing a handset with a refurbished phone he would need to pay his £100 
excess. So the excess was always going to be payable for any successful claim Mr B made.
Mr B said AIG had agreed to refund his excess. But I think hes mistaken. I can see Mr B 
asked AIG to pay an excess refund. But I've seen no evidence, beyond Mr Bs comments, 
that AIG ever said it would make that refund. And, as Mr B agreed to pay his excess when 
he accepted the policy, I think its reasonable that AIG hasn't refunded it even if some of its 
service wasn't of the standard Mr B could expect.
Compensation 
AIG has acknowledged that it didn't get everything right. Mr B has clearly had to return faulty 
handsets on several occasions. And hes had to use time out of his day in order to do so. I 
can understand that this was immensely frustrating. AIG has also acknowledged that one of 
its call handlers didn't deal with a call particularly well. And it accepts that, on another 
occasion it gave Mr B the expectation that a courier would arrive to collect a handset, but it 
didn't actually book the courier to attend on that day. So Mr B spent the day waiting for a 
courier to attend who wasn't ever going to do so because it hadnt been booked. I can 
appreciate that this would have added to Mr Bs growing frustration. And I can understand 
that this and AIGs other failures in service would have been a source of distress and 
inconvenience for Mr B. 
I note that AIG has already upgraded Mr Bs phone twice. But given the service failures 
identified, which happened over several months, I don't think that goes far enough to 
address Mr Bs distress and inconvenience. And in these specific circumstances I think 
compensation of £400 is a fair and reasonable award. I'm aware that Mr B thinks a figure of 
at least £500 is warranted, particularly as hes had to take time off work to sort things out. 
But, when awarding compensation I think about the impact that a business errors have had 
on the consumer in terms of the distress and inconvenience caused. I don't look to award 
compensation on the basis of what they might otherwise have earned on a professional 
basis. Or for the time theyve put into dealing with a business or this service on a 
professional rate. Thats because, usually, when dealing with a business like AIG the 
consumer isn't acting in a professional context. And one persons personal time isn't more 
valuable than anothers. So while Ive factored in that Mr B had to use his time away from 
work in dealing with AIG, Ive awarded compensation on the basis of the overall impact that 
AIGs actions had in terms of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
But, in any event, I note that on several occasions AIG has been clear with Mr B that it 
wouldn't pay the compensation until it had received all the expected handsets back. It might 
help if I explain that Mr Bs policy says that if AIG replaces a handset then the old phone its 
replaced becomes its property. So once AIG handed over a replacement phone to Mr B the 
old phone belonged to AIG. But on three occasions the phone AIG received back from Mr B 
wasn't the phone hed asked to be replaced. In other words AIG hadn't received its property 
back.
I've heard a phone call between AIG and Mr B in which it told him that it wouldn't pay any 
compensation until it had received the missing handsets back. And Mr B said that was fair 
enough. Indeed he said he would pay for the phones it they were missing. And while Mr B 
did later return two of the missing three handsets to AIG, it hasn't ever received the third 
one. AIG had clearly made Mr B aware that it would only pay him compensation once it had 
received all of its property back from him. And, given the value of the handsets and that AIG 
had made its intentions clear, that it wouldn't pay compensation until Mr B returned all the 
missing handsets, I think thats reasonable. Further, I've heard another call with AIG when Mr B said hed located the final missing 
handset and would return it to AIG. AIG arranged for the handset to be collected. But the 
parcel that Mr B sent to it didn't hold the missing handset and instead contained clothing, 
which AIG later returned to Mr B. And, to date it still hasn't received the missing handset. So 
Mr B had clearly been in a position to return the handset to AIG but didn't do so. If hed done 
that AIG would have paid compensation. But through no fault of AIGs it hasn't received that 
handset. And given that AIG had made its position clear that it wouldn't pay any 
compensation until it received the outstanding handset, I think its reasonable that it only 
pays the compensation I've awarded once it has received the missing phone.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, if American International Group UK Limited receives the 
specific handset which is outstanding, it should pay Mr B £400 compensation. I will not 
require American International Group UK Limited to make any payment of compensation 
unless and until it received the specific handset which it has told Mr B is missing. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman