DRN-1911490
The complaint
Ms P complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited didnt automatically renew her 
motor insurance policy. This meant she was uninsured when her husband, a named driver 
on the policy, was involved in an accident.
What happened
Ms Ps policy with Hastings renewed automatically for some years. When her policy came up 
for its latest renewal, Hastings was unable to provide her with any quotes due its own 
system changes. It said it sent Ms P two letters telling her this and that her policy wouldnt be 
renewed. Ms P said she didnt receive these letters and shed set her contact preferences to 
email. 
Hastings agreed that it hadnt provided a renewal. It offered Ms P £200 compensation for her 
trouble and upset and £295 for the cost of temporary insurance to release her car from 
impound. It also offered to cover any other impound costs. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought it 
wasnt unreasonable for Hastings to send letters. She saw that Hastings had sent its letters 
to the correct address. She thought its offers of compensation and reimbursement fairly 
reflected its inability to offer a renewal. She didnt think Hastings needed to do anything 
further in regard to the accident or Ms P being uninsured. 
Ms P replied that the non-renewal had had major consequences for her and her family. She 
said Hastings should have communicated by email.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms P feels frustrated and stressed by this event. Shes explained the 
effects it has had financially and in other ways on her family. I can see that she feels that it 
would have been avoided if Hastings communications had been better. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. Also, we believe that brokers 
should take reasonable steps to ensure that policy holders are told that their policy hasnt 
been renewed as this will have serious consequences for them and expose them to possible 
court action.
Ive looked at Ms Ps policy booklet and I can see that in the automatic renewal section it 
says that if this cant be offered, then Hastings will let Ms P know in her notice of renewal. 
Hastings said that it was unable to provide Ms P with any quotes for her renewal due to a 
system change. It said it then sent Ms P a letter three weeks before her renewal to tell her 
that it wouldnt be able to provide cover. And then it said it sent a second letter saying that 
she no longer had cover. 
Ms P said that her preferred method of contact was email. Hastings said that letters hadnt 
always been Ms Ps chosen method of contact. In its response to Ms Ps complaint, Hastings 
said that letters were Ms Ps chosen method of delivery in her last policy year. It said shed 
made this change because she couldnt access her online account due to system 
differences at the previous renewal. So I cant say that it was unreasonable for Hastings to 
send its letters by post. 
Ive seen evidence from Hastings that the letters were generated and despatched by post to 
the correct address. Like Hastings, Im unable to say why Ms P didnt receive them. But I 
cant hold Hastings responsible for the postal service. 
I can see that Hastings, in response to Ms Ps complaint, was sympathetic to her 
circumstances as a long-standing customer. It provided Ms P with a letter of mitigating 
circumstances that she could show in court in regard to her husband driving whilst 
uninsured. It offered to refund Ms Ps recovery and £295 impound costs. It also paid her 
£200 compensation for her trouble and upset. I can see that there were initial 
miscommunications about a letter of indemnity and why the policy hadnt auto-renewed. So I 
think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
But I think Hastings acted fairly and reasonably, and in keeping with the policy terms and 
conditions, when it notified Ms P that her policy hadnt renewed. So I dont require it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman