DRN-4130467
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) has 
refused his claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, and his chargeback 
request.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr M used his Barclaycard credit card to book a hotel from 4-8 April 2022. 
He says this was initially booked for his mother and aunt and that his aunt at one point 
wasnt looking fit enough to travel to the hotel and that he was going to go in her place. 
However, Mr M couldnt go but his aunt was able to.
On 28 March 2022, the booking company wrote to Mr Ms aunt saying that management had 
decided to close the hotel and that they would transfer them to one of their sister hotels.
Mr M complained to Barclaycard after his mother and aunt had stayed at the alternative 
hotel. He said the hotel didnt provide the same amenities as had been agreed with the initial 
hotel. Specifically, that his mother and aunt had to share a double bed rather than sleep in 
two twin beds, that the hotel room wasnt accessible enough for them taking into account 
their health, and that they had to pay for food and drink on the morning they checked out 
despite the booking being all-inclusive.
Barclaycard declined Mr Ms claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(Section 75) as they felt the necessary criteria for making a claim hadnt been met. And 
they said they raised a claim for a chargeback but, upon review of the evidence Mr M had 
submitted in support of this, they didnt proceed any further. This was because they didnt 
agree the hotel had failed to provide the correct service. And Barclaycard said Mr M needed 
to raise any dissatisfaction with the hotel management, in line with the booking information 
that had been sent. 
Mr M referred his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
She said Mr M hadnt met the necessary criteria for a Section 75 claim. And she said, had 
Barclaycard raised a chargeback, it was highly likely the booking company would have 
defended this as the services had been used and the hotel hadnt been made aware of any 
problems at the time as required under the booking companys terms and conditions. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said his mother and aunt did raise concerns with the hotel staff about 
the room, but no other room could be found due to staff shortages, and they were advised to 
raise any concerns about their stay when they returned home. 
Mr M asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 makes the provider of credit (Barclaycard in this case) equally liable where there 
is a case of misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier of goods or services 
financed by the credit. However, it will only apply when there is a direct relationship between 
the debtor, creditor and supplier.
The crucial thing here is whether Mr M has a contractual relationship with the supplier which 
received the credit card payment. From Mr Ms testimony, the intention was always that his 
mother and aunt would be staying at the hotel and receiving their amenities. This is 
corroborated by the booking invoice which shows that his mother and aunt were the named 
parties on the booking. Although Mr M says that position nearly changed in that he was at 
one point going in his aunts place because of her health, his aunt was able to still travel and 
stay at the hotel. 
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Mr Ms mother and aunt, not Mr M, were the 
contractual parties with the hotel. That means that any complaint about the breach of 
contract relating to the amenities provided and not provided by the hotel could only be made 
by Mr Ms mother and aunt as they were the intended recipients of them. As Mr M only paid 
for the booking though, he wouldnt have a similar right to make such a claim.
Mr M does have a right to make a claim against the booking company but only for what they 
contracted to provide to him. That wouldnt extend to a claim about the quality of the 
amenities provided by the hotel or a change to them unless the booking company took on 
liability for that. Ive not though seen any such liability set out within the booking companys 
terms and conditions. 
I conclude there is no valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship between the parties in 
relation to the alleged breach of contract about the hotel amenities and so no right for Mr M 
to make a claim under section 75 for that. I also conclude that Mr M is unable to show that 
the booking agent breached its contract with him in respect of the booking he made and paid 
for.
The chargeback scheme is another way which Barclaycard might have been able to recover 
the funds for Mr M. They didnt though raise a chargeback because they didnt agree that the 
hotel had failed to provide the correct service. And they said that Mr M needed to raise any 
dissatisfaction with the hotel management, in line with the booking information that had been 
sent. 
Id consider it to be good practice for Barclaycard to raise a chargeback if it has a good 
chance of being successful. Here though, I dont think this would have been the case. 
The booking company arranged for Mr Ms mother and aunt to stay at one of the sister 
hotels as the hotel they were originally staying at decided to close. I note though that the 
alternative hotel was able to provide Mr Ms mother and aunt with a room along with the 
normal things expected for that, such as a bathroom. I realise Mr Ms mother and aunt feel this new room was suitable because it was cramped 
and that it wasnt easy to use the bathroom. And that they were asked to pay for food and 
drink on the morning of their departure.  Im sorry to hear that this affected their stay. Their 
argument though is a subjective one as far as the comfort element of what they were 
provided against perhaps what they expected. It would be different if for example the hotel 
couldnt provide a bathroom or a bed or that they couldnt use any of the facilities in the 
room. I dont though think thats what happened from the evidence Ive seen. 
As far as being asked to pay for food and drink on the day of their departure, I am unclear as 
to whether this meant Mr Ms mother and aunt paid for that or made their own arrangements. 
It doesnt appear though that they had to pay for this throughout their stay so I wouldnt say 
the services in respect of that werent provided although I appreciate a last-minute change to 
that would certainly have been an inconvenience. 
Bearing in mind what Ive set out above, I think in all likelihood the hotel (and the booking 
company) would have defended the chargeback by saying they did provide the services 
under the booking. So, I dont find that Barclaycard acted unreasonably by not proceeding 
any further with the chargeback.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman