DRN-3197563
The complaint
Mr H complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (MCF) lent to him 
in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr H was given four loans by MCF. He first borrowed £2,000 in June 2015 that he agreed to 
repay in 18 monthly instalments. That loan was completed as planned in December 2016. 
The following month Mr H borrowed a further £2,000 that he agreed to repay in 24 monthly 
instalments. That loan was refinanced around nine months later in November 2017, when 
Mr H also took some additional borrowing. So for the third loan Mr H borrowed £2,339.24 
that he agreed to repay in 24 monthly instalments. Mr Hs final loan, that again refinanced 
his previous borrowing was taken in May 2018. At that time he borrowed £2,726.44 that he 
agreed to repay in 24 monthly instalments. Mr H faced problems making his repayments on 
the final loan, and his debt was transferred to a third party.
When Mr H first complained to MCF, it told him that it didnt think it had done anything wrong 
in providing the first three loans. But it agreed that it shouldnt have given the final loan to 
Mr H. So MCF agreed to reduce Mr Hs outstanding balance on that loan by removing all the 
interest it had added. And it told Mr H it would remove the loan from his credit file. Mr H 
didnt agree with what MCF had decided about the first three loans so he brought his 
complaint to this Service.
The complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think MCF had 
been wrong to give the first three loans to Mr H. She thought that the results of the checks 
didnt suggest that Mr H would find it difficult to make his repayments on the first three loans 
in a sustainable manner. And she thought that what MCF had done in relation to the final 
loan was fair and reasonable. So our investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr H didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Hs complaint.
As I mentioned earlier, MCF has already agreed that it shouldnt have given the final loan to 
Mr H. What MCF has done to put things right is in line with what I would direct if I upheld that 
part of Mr Hs complaint. So I dont need to deal with the final loan any further in this 
decision.
The rules and regulations at the time MCF gave the first three loans to Mr H required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay 
what he owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so MCF had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr H. In practice this 
meant that MCF had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr H undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for MCF to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether MCF did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr H.
MCF gathered some information from Mr H before it agreed each loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess 
how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past.
Mr H was entering into significant commitments with MCF. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for periods of up to two years. So I think it was right that MCF wanted to gather, 
and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Hs financial circumstances 
before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above were sufficient to 
achieve that aim  I think that MCFs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So 
Ive looked at the results of MCFs checks to see whether it made fair lending decisions.The credit check results did show that Mr H had faced some problems managing his money 
in the past. His credit file showed that two defaulted accounts remained outstanding. The 
defaults had been added in 2010 and 2013. It is true that consumers who have faced 
problems managing their money in the past are more likely to face similar problems in the 
future. But given Mr Hs more recent credit history, and that these defaults occurred a 
number of years before, I dont think they should have caused great concern to MCF.
Mr H told MCF that he wanted to use the first loan to consolidate some other borrowing. The 
results of the credit check did show that Mr H was making some use of other credit facilities 
 he had outstanding balances on three loans and a revolving credit account that had been 
opened in the three months before his application. But those combined balances were less 
than Mr H had asked to borrow  so I think it would have been reasonable for MCF to 
conclude that its loan would replace the rest of Mr Hs other borrowing.
I think it was reasonable for MCF to rely on what Mr H said he would use the loan for. And 
on that basis, given what Mr H has said about his disposable income, it was reasonable for 
MCF to conclude that it was likely he would be able to afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner. I dont think MCF was wrong to give this loan to Mr H.
Mr H appeared to face no problems making his repayments on the first loan and it was 
repaid as planned at the start of December 2017. Around two months later Mr H asked to 
borrow again. As he asked to take the loan over a slightly longer period his monthly 
repayments were a little less than before. So given what hed said about his income and 
expenditure, and what it had seen from Mr Hs repayment record on the first loan, I again 
think it was reasonable for MCF to conclude Mr H could afford the repayments on this loan. 
The credit check also showed that Mr H only had two short term loans outstanding, that 
would most likely have been repaid, either before this loan was granted, or with its proceeds. 
So I dont think MCF was wrong to give this loan to Mr H either.
Around ten months later, Mr H asked to refinance his loan and take some additional 
borrowing. I think that should have started to cause some concerns to the lender. But Mr Hs 
repayment record on the second loan had been good  and the amount he needed to repay 
each month on the new loan was only a little greater than his existing repayments. The credit 
check showed that Mr H had no other active credit that he needed to repay at that time. So, 
on balance, I dont think MCF was wrong to give this loan to Mr H.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr H. It is clear that he has faced 
problems repaying his final loan. But MCF has acknowledged its part in those problems by 
upholding his complaint about that loan and reducing his outstanding balance by removing 
all the interest from the loan. I think the checks MCF did before the first three loans were 
agreed were proportionate. And I dont think the results of those checks should have led 
MCF to decline Mr Hs first three applications.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Madison CF UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman