DRN-4313951
The complaint
Mr A complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt tell him when his 
promotional offer was due to expire.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr A took out a Virgin Money credit card with a promotional offer. The 
offer included an offer in relation to balance transfers at 0% interest for 20 months with a 1% 
transfer fee.
Mr A completed a balance transfer once his account was open. The promotional offer was 
due to expire on 10 August 2022.
Mr A didnt settle the balance before the expiry of the promotional offer. Interest was applied 
to his account. He complained to Virgin Money and said he hadnt been given reasonable 
notice of the end of the promotional period. 
Virgin Money didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response it said that each monthly 
statement confirmed that the promotional offer was due to expire on 10 August 2022. It said 
it had sent Mr A an email on 23 July 2022 to confirm that the offer was expiring shortly. It 
said that once the promotional offer had ended, it had correctly charged the applicable 
interest rate. Virgin Money said it would apply a one month interest waiver to Mr As account 
as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr A remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she was satisfied that Virgin Money 
had provided reasonable notice about the end of the promotional period.
Mr A didnt agree. He said he hadnt received the email from Virgin Money dated 32 July 
2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr As account. These say that Virgin Money may 
contact Mr A about the account by any means, including messages on his monthly 
statement, post/phone/text and email.
Ive reviewed Mr As monthly statements and I can see that the expiry date of the 
promotional offer is shown on each statement. I appreciate that Mr A has said that he didnt 
check his monthly statements, however, its his responsibility to do so. In the circumstances, 
Im satisfied that by including details of the end of the promotional offer on the monthly 
statements, Virgin Money took reasonable steps to remind Mr A of the offer end date.
In addition to the monthly statements, I can see that Virgin Money sent an email to Mr A on 
23 July 2022 advising him that the promotional offer was expiring shortly. Mr A has told this 
service that he didnt receive the email. Ive reviewed the email and its correctly addressed 
to Mr A. Mr A has said he was told by a Virgin Money agent that the email wasnt actually 
sent due to a system error. I havent seen any evidence to support this. But even if Mr A 
didnt receive the email (for whatever reason), Im satisfied that Virgin Money had already 
done enough by advising Mr A of the offer end date on his monthly statements.
For these reasons. I dont uphold the complaint and I wont be asking Virgin Money to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman