DRN-2166122
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complaint that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) increased the 
premium on their pet insurance policy part way through the policy year, and hadnt told them 
when they took out the policy that this could happen.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D bought their pet insurance policy for their pet dog, underwritten by RSA, 
online. They later had their pet spayed. When Mrs D told RSA about this, it reviewed the 
premium and increased this. Mr and Mrs D were unhappy about the increase but RSA said if 
they didnt pay the additional premium it wouldnt honour any claims they made on the 
policy.
When Mr and Mrs D brought their complaint to this service, our investigator said it would 
have been fair for RSA to increase the premium the next time the policy was renewed, but it 
shouldnt have increased it before then. She asked RSA to waive the increase and continue 
to provide cover at the original price.
RSA didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans decision. It provided information about 
how the premium was calculated and said once the pet was spayed, the risk of ill health 
increased, so it was entitled to increase the premium to reflect this. Our investigator said any 
change in risk wasnt a fundamental change, and RSA could only increase a premium during 
the policy year if there was a fundamental change.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA has provided details of how it calculates the premiums for the policy. This shows that it 
considers there is an increased risk once a dog has been spayed. It says it would apply this 
to any customer, so it was treating Mr and Mrs D fairly when it increased the premium.
When any insurance policy is offered, the insurer will assess what risk its prepared to cover 
and what price to charge for that level of risk. Its not for me to review how RSA assesses 
this. Im satisfied that it would treat other customers in the same way wherever their pet dog 
has been spayed. But that doesnt necessarily mean its fair to increase the premium during 
the policy year.
When Mr and Mrs D took out their policy they entered into a contract under which RSA 
agreed to provide cover for the year and in return they agreed to pay the premium. So they 
were expecting cover for a year at that price. RSA offered an annual contract and should 
expect some minor changes during the year. These dont alter the nature of the risk RSA 
agreed to cover. I wouldnt generally consider it fair for an insurer to charge for mid-term 
changes unless there is a fundamental change in risk  in other words, something major that 
substantially changes the nature of the risk being covered, rather than minor changes.
RSA says this was a major change but I dont agree. While there may be some increase in 
the risk of their pet having health problems in future, there wasnt a substantial change in the 
nature of the risk RSA was covering for that year. And I think thats underlined by the fact the 
premium was around £600 for the year, while the increase was only £25.
So while it may be fair for RSA to review the premium at renewal and increase the premium 
for the following year, it wasnt fair to increase the premium before then. 
Mr and Mrs D say their concern is not just that the premium went up, but that they were not 
told this might happen when they bought the policy. Even if they had been told, I dont think it 
would have been fair in any event to increase the premium in these circumstances. 
If Mr and Mrs D still had the policy, I would have directed RSA to withdraw the increase and 
continue with the policy at the original price. However, I understand RSA cancelled the policy 
due to the extra premium not being paid. Mr and Mrs D then found another policy elsewhere. 
They were understandably upset about this. Having said that, the extra cost was very 
modest and they could have paid that to ensure cover continued, and still brought the 
complaint. That would have avoided the risk of having the policy cancelled.
Putting things right
Although Im upholding the complaint, for the reasons Ive explained theres nothing RSA 
needs to do to put things right. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint but dont require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman