DRN-3315209
The complaint
Mr R complains that it was unfair of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF) to provide a loan to fund the purchase of a holiday club 
membership (the product) without checking if he could afford to pay back what he owed - 
and then refuse to consider his claim that the product was mis-sold.
The product agreement is in the joint names of Mr R and his partner but the loan 
agreement is in Mr Rs sole name. This means Mr R is the complainant who is eligible to 
bring a complaint to our service so Ive referred to Mr R alone in this decision.
Mr R is represented by a firm of solicitors but Ill refer (generally) to everything thats been 
said on his behalf as if Mr R had said it himself, to keep things simple.
What happened
Mr R purchased the product in April 2010 with a point of sale loan provided by BPF. The 
product cost just over £12,000 and Mr R agreed to pay back over £33,000 (once interest 
was added). Mr R says the product was misrepresented, he was treated unfairly during 
the sale and BPF didnt check if he could afford to repay what he owed. He asked BPF 
to investigate and refund the total cost.
BPF looked at the complaint but decided it hadnt been brought in time. BPF says the loan 
agreement started in 2010 and ended in September 2011 - after Mr R settled early, having 
paid over £14,000. BPF thinks its too late for Mr R to bring claims under sections 75 and 
140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and hes also out of time to refer his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service under our rules.
One of our adjudicators looked into the matter. First, he considered whether this service 
is able to consider Mr Rs complaint. The adjudicator said (in summary):-
our rules say we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers it to us more 
than six years after the event complained of - or (if later) three years from the 
date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to have 
become aware) that he had cause for complaint - unless the failure to comply 
with the time limits was the result of exceptional circumstances; 
Mr R complains that BPF failed to fulfil its obligations because he hasnt had 
satisfactory compensation for his claim and, when assessing and declining a 
claim under the CCA, BPF is exercising its rights and duties under a regulated 
credit agreement;
this means the event complained of here is BPFs decision in April 2018 to 
decline the claim Mr R made about the sale of the product itself;
Mr R brought his complaint to us in July 2018 which is within the six year time 
limit set out in our rules and we can look at the complaint.
Satisfied the complaint was within jurisdiction, the adjudicator went on to consider merits 
of Mr Rs complaint. He said:-
under section 75 BPF is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of goods 
or services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier,
if the time for bringing a claim against the supplier has expired under the 
Limitation Act 1980 (LA), then this would be the same for any like claim against 
BPF - and thats something BPF could reasonably take into account when it 
declined Mr Rs claim;
Mr R raises allegations of misrepresentation so he has six years (under the LA) 
to bring his claim - and the same time frame applies for claims under statute 
and contract;
misrepresentation claims can be made once the person bringing the claim has 
suffered damage and any damage would have occurred here when Mr R 
experienced a financial loss as a result of purchasing the product  in that he 
says the purchase caused financial loss due to the suppliers misrepresentations 
and he wouldnt have bought the product except for those misrepresentations;
this means the point of loss for Mr R was when he entered into the transaction to 
buy the product in April 2010  it was at that stage he accepted the cost and any 
potential benefit under the contract  meaning he needed to raise his claim under 
section 75 no later than April 2016, but he didnt complain to BPF until March 2018;
Mr R may not have known that he could raise concerns about misrepresentation 
before March 2018 but the relevant time limits start to run from the date of loss, 
which may fall earlier than the date Mr R realised something might have gone 
wrong;
under section 140A of the CCA a court may make an order under section 140B if it 
is determined that the relationship between the creditor and debtor arising out of 
the agreement is unfair to the debtor - only a court has the power to decide this 
but section 140A is relevant law that our service needs to take into consideration;
the LA applies to a section 140A claim as well. Mr R had six years from the date 
the finance agreement ended to bring such a claim and his loan ended in 
September 2011 - so any section.140A claim would need to have been brought no 
later than September 2017. Mr R didnt raise this claim until March 2018 so its 
more than likely time barred under the LA; and
Mr R hasnt provided any information or evidence to show that it was irresponsible 
of BPF to lend and theres no reason to think the borrowing was unaffordable.
The adjudicator considered its for the courts to decide whether or not any right to bring a 
claim has expired under the LA. But, he was satisfied it looks as if Mr Rs section 75 
claim against the supplier and any like claim against BPF - as well as any claim under 
section 140A  have, more than likely, exceeded the relevant time limits. He didnt think it 
was unreasonable for BPF to take this into account. He wasnt persuaded that BPFs 
decision to decline Mr Rs claims was unfair or unreasonable. And he didnt recommend 
the complaint should be upheld.Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look into the matter. His 
representatives have made lengthy submissions which Ive read carefully. Ive 
summarised these below for ease of reference:-
this was a complex product which was mis-sold;
BPF was under a duty to disclose commission details but the existence and 
amount, of commission paid by BPF was concealed, this still hasnt been 
disclosed and the existence of a duty to disclose is irrelevant for the purposes of 
section 140;
points were purchased under a long term (virtually perpetual) agreement and 
this was also concealed;
misrepresentations made at the outset also make the debtor-creditor 
relationship unfair;
Mr R has been unable to ascertain relevant facts by the exercise of 
reasonable diligence and he couldnt reasonably be expected to know that he 
had cause for complaint until he sought appropriate advice - long after he 
paid off the loan;
the adjudicator is wrong about the limitation periods for claims under sections 75 
and 140A - these havent expired;
in a deliberate breach of duty BPF failed to carry out a satisfactory affordability 
assessment and  in an act of deliberate concealment  BPF failed to disclose 
any assessment it did undertake, which would also contain facts relevant to the 
unfair creditor-debtor relationship;
the lending was irresponsible and unaffordable for Mr R.
Mr Rs representatives say BPF should provide a full refund (including maintenance 
fees) plus interest, pay Mr Rs legal fees, rectify his credit file and arrange to 
surrender/take over the product membership  at no additional cost to Mr R.
Having considered the evidence available, I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the adjudicators however so I issued a provisional 
decision on 10 November 2021 to let the parties see my provisional conclusions and 
make further submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. Ive set out 
below what I decided provisionally  and why  and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not currently 
minded to require BPF to do anything further to resolve the matter and Ive explained why 
below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision about the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in 
other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.The detailed submissions made by Mr Rs representatives refer to various regulations, 
legislation and caselaw (amongst other things). I have to take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice, when I make my decision. And I want to assure Mr R, if I dont address 
every point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have 
considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in 
this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service
Ive considered whether this complaint comes within the jurisdiction of our service. BPF 
says it doesnt because Mr R is complaining about events that took place in 2010 and it 
was more than six years after that before he brought his complaint to us.
The rules about the complaints this service can consider are set out in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Handbook. These are known as the DISP rules. DISP 2.8.2(2) 
provides (unless the failure to comply with time limits was as a result of exceptional 
circumstances) that we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers it to us more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of, or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
To decide if this complaint is one that we can look into, Ive considered what Mr R is 
complaining about exactly. I think its clear hes unhappy because he feels BPF failed to 
fulfil obligations it has under the CCA when it rejected claims he made under sections 75 
and 140A arising out of his purchase of the product. He also considers BPF lent him 
money without checking properly that he could afford to pay it back.
jurisdiction and Mr Rs section 75 claim
Mr R says the product was mis-sold to him so he has a claim against BPF under section 
75 and he doesnt think he should have repaid the loan. And I think theres a positive 
obligation on BPF to properly consider the claim that Mr R raised. CONC 7.5.3 provides 
that a firm must not ignore or disregard a customers claim that a debt has been settled 
or is disputed and must not continue to make demands for payment without providing 
clear justification and/or evidence as to why the customers claim is not valid. 
Similarly, the principles set out in the FCA Handbook place obligations and duties on BPF 
to properly consider section 75 claims. And Im satisfied the exercise of a lenders rights 
and duties under a credit agreement is a regulated activity (under Article 60(B)(2) of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities Order 2001)) - and 
considering a section 75 claim is carried on in connection with that regulated activity.
I find the event (as referred to at DISP 2.8.2(2)(a) above) that Mr R is complaining about 
is BPFs rejection of the claim he made under the CCA. This means the relevant date is 
when BPF declined Mr Rs complaint in April 2018. Im satisfied Mr R brought this 
complaint to our service just a few months after that and hes not out of time to do so. I 
find this part of Mr Rs complaint falls within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service and we can consider it.
jurisdiction and section 140AIf I understand Mr R correctly, he says the acts and omissions of the product supplier here 
resulted in an unfair relationship between him and BPF. I think that amounts to a claim 
under section 140A of the CCA and Ive given some thought as to whether this part of Mr 
Rs complaint falls within our jurisdiction.
Having considered the evidence, Im satisfied the events complained of - for the purposes 
of S.140A - took place at the point of sale in April 2010. I cant reasonably conclude that 
this part of Mr Rs complaint was brought to us within the six-year period set out in the first 
part of DISP 2.8.2R as outlined above. So, Ive gone on to consider the second limb of 
DISP 2.8.2 - when Mr R knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for 
complaint - to see if this extended the time under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b).
In the submissions its suggested that Mr R first became aware he had cause for complaint 
in 2017 - when he discovered other customers had similar issues and sought professional 
advice. From the evidence Ive seen  and having considered the acts and omissions that 
Mr R has complained about - I think he should reasonably have known that something had 
gone wrong as a result of the suppliers acts and/or omissions before that time.
I accept however this is not the same as Mr R knowing that he had cause for complaint 
against BPF. And, whilst Mr R may have known that something might have gone wrong 
with the supplier, I dont think its reasonable to assume that he would have realised this 
made the relationship between him and BPF unfair  or that he had grounds to complain 
about BPF.
For that to be the case, I think Mr R would have needed to know there was a problem that 
caused him to lose out because of something BPF did (or didnt do). Im not persuaded 
that Mr R knew (or ought reasonably to have known) he had cause for complaint against 
BPF before 2017. Im satisfied Mr R brought this complaint to us within three years  in 
July 2018. And I find this part of his complaint comes within our jurisdiction and we are 
able to look into it. 
In light of my findings above, Ive gone on to consider the merits of Mr Rs complaint.
merits of the complaint
Mr R brings claims against BPF under section 75 and section 140A of the CCA. The 
adjudicator considered any right he had to do so is probably out of time under the LA. If 
thats correct, then I think its something that BPF could reasonably take into account 
when it decided to decline Mr Rs claims. I should make it clear however that Im not 
deciding if any right that Mr R may have to bring these claims has expired under the LA - 
thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im considering if BPF has acted fairly and 
reasonably in turning down Mr Rs claims.
Section 75 CCA
Under section 75 a borrower has an equal right to claim against a credit provider and a 
supplier, in certain circumstances, if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. In this complaint, Mr R claims misrepresentations 
were made and I think sections 2, and 9 of the LA are relevant.
Section 2 applies to a claim (founded in tort) for damages under section 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 and section 9 applies to causes of action for sums 
recoverable under statute. Im satisfied that both sections impose a limitation period of six 
years from the date that a cause of action accrues. And I think the date the cause of action accrued here will be the same as the date upon which the misrepresentation 
alleged under section 75 became actionable  that is the date any damage is suffered. 
Im satisfied that any relevant damage was incurred when Mr R purchased the product 
and took out the loan in April 2010. Amongst other things, it was at this stage he paid for 
the benefits which he says were misrepresented. As a consequence, I think Mr R would 
have needed to bring any claim under section 75 within six years of the date he entered 
into the transaction to acquire the product. Im satisfied more than six years had passed 
since that date before Mr R contacted BPF - in March 2018. It looks as if the period within 
which Mr R had to bring an action under section 75 had likely run out by that point. And I 
cant reasonably find it was wrong of BPF to decline his section 75 claim.
I note that BPF says the relationship between the debtor, creditor and supplier (d-c-s) 
required under section 75 isnt present here. As Im not minded to uphold this complaint 
for other reasons (set out above), I havent considered whether the necessary d-c-s 
relationship is present.
Section 140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor 
arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a 
determination but I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Im satisfied that the time limit applicable here is six years from the date the debtor-creditor 
relationship ends. Ive seen a letter from BPF dated 22 November 2017 which says Mr R 
still owed just under £200 at that stage. We asked BPF about this correspondence and it 
told us the letter was sent in error. Mr Rs representatives seem to accept the loan was 
repaid in 2011 (paragraph 8(e) of the further submissions). So, based on the information I 
have at the moment, Im minded to find Mr R settled the loan in September 2011.
Im satisfied that means Mr R would have needed to bring any claim under section 140A 
no later than September 2017. As far as I can see, this claim was not raised with BPF 
until March 2018  which is more than six years after the date time started running. I 
think any right Mr R had to bring a claim under section 140A had likely expired by that 
stage and Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for BPF to decline this claim.
Section 32 LA
I appreciate Mr R may say he didnt know about the time limits Ive referred to above but 
Im afraid thats not generally accepted as grounds for extending the limitation period. Ive 
given some thought to his representatives reference to section 32 of the LA  which 
relates to the extension of time for starting an action if fraud, mistake or concealment are 
found (or could with reasonable diligence have been discovered). I cant see that specific 
allegations of this sort have been raised with BPF previously. But, even if I were to accept 
that section 32 applied, I think Mr R probably had enough information about the terms of 
the agreement relating to its length and charges to start the clock running not long after 
he purchased this product.
I say this because Im satisfied Mr R used the product in 2010. And I think the evidence 
suggests he was probably aware then that benefits he says he was told at the outset 
would be provided might have been misrepresented. On balance, I think its more likely 
than not Mr R would have realised he wasnt receiving the services he expected at that 
stage. I consider this would have been sufficient to enable him to bring a claim within the 
time limits Ive already referred to. And I dont think its unreasonable to expect Mr R to have done so - in which case the other issues hes raised would likely have become 
discoverable within the relevant time limits. So, on the evidence I have at the moment, Im 
not satisfied that section 32 assists Mr R, in these particular circumstances. 
I have also considered what Mr R says about the amount of commission that might have 
been paid by BPF to the product provider for arranging the loan - he thinks BPF should 
have told him about that. BPF says it doesnt have details of what, if anything, was paid in 
Mr Rs case  due to the passage of time.
On the evidence Ive seen, if anything was paid, I think it was probably a commission of 
less than 10%. Im satisfied BPF didnt breach any duty in making such a payment  nor 
was it under any regulatory duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in these 
circumstances. And I dont think the levels of commission that are normally paid in this 
situation were sufficiently high to mean that BPF should have appreciated not disclosing 
commission to Mr R risked the relationship being unfair under section 140A.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that Mr R is able to rely on section 32 of the LA 
here. For the avoidance of any doubt, I should also make it clear that Ive seen nothing to 
show that the product provider was acting as agent to Mr R. I cant see that its role was to 
make an impartial or dis-interested recommendation about taking out the loan. And I dont 
think the product provider needed to disclose the fact that it might have received a 
commission to Mr R either.
As Ive said, I think any commission paid here was unlikely to be more than 10%. So, 
even if I was satisfied that Mr R could rely on section 32 of the LA to assist with this part of 
his complaint, Im not persuaded its likely a court would conclude that any commission 
paid created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
Section 14A LA
Im not persuaded that section 14A of the LA (which provides for a second period in which 
a claim for negligence can be made) applies here. Looking at what happened, when Mr R 
purchased the product and took out the finance (and having considered the relevant 
documentation) I think there was an obligation to give Mr R sufficient, appropriate and 
timely information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the 
loan. But Im not persuaded a duty of care arose or advice was provided that could give 
rise to a claim to which section 14A of the LA could apply.
conclusion
As the adjudicator explained, its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any 
claim that Mr R may have against the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, as 
far as I can see from the information available, any claim that Mr R might have against the 
supplier and/or BPF has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA . I think it is 
reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. And I am not persuaded that 
BPF acted unfairly in declining the claims above.
unaffordable lending
Mr R says it was irresponsible of BPF to provide this loan and proper credit checks were 
not carried out. Our adjudicator didnt think there was sufficient evidence to reasonably say 
thats likely. And I cant see that Mr R has provided much by way of further evidence about 
this in response to his view. But, even if I were to find BPF didnt do all that it should have 
when it agreed to lend, Id still need to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mr 
R and he lost out as a result in order to uphold this part of his complaint.As set out above, our jurisdiction to consider complaints is time limited. In this situation, 
a consumer must complain within six years of the sale of the loan - or three years from 
the date on which they became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) 
that they had a cause for complaint about the sale of the loan. Im satisfied that Mr R 
didnt complain about the sale of this loan within six years of taking it out so Ive 
thought about when he realised (or should have realised) that he had cause to 
complain.
Mr Rs representatives submit that the APR of 17.7% and the fact the loan was set to run 
for 15 years (which they say only came to light in 2017) mean the lending was 
irresponsible. Im satisfied the duration of the loan is displayed fairly prominently on the 
face of the loan agreement - alongside the interest rate and monthly repayments due. I 
think Mr R was made reasonably aware of these when he took the loan out. And I cant 
reasonably conclude that the lending was unaffordable for Mr R solely on the grounds of 
the APR and the loan term.
Mr Rs representatives have told us he only became aware of affordability issues when he 
approached them for advice in 2017. Ive seen an undated statement that Mr R made 
about a number of timeshare transactions that he entered into. But, this doesnt set out 
what he remembers about how this particular loan came to be sold to him in 2010 - or 
when he realised that something might have gone wrong. And Mr R doesnt actually say 
this loan from BPF was unaffordable  or indicate when he first came to believe that might 
be the case.
I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr R had any affordability issues during the life of 
this loan. Theres nothing to suggest that he struggled to meet the loan repayments - for 
example - or otherwise had financial problems during the relevant time. As Ive explained 
above, Im satisfied that Mr R appears to have settled the loan in September 2011. So, if 
he experienced affordability issues, its reasonable to assume he would have known there 
was a problem before that. I think Mr R should reasonably have been aware that he had 
cause to complain around the same time. Im satisfied he didnt raise his complaint about 
unaffordable lending until more than three years after that. And I am minded to find it falls 
outside the relevant time limits that this service must follow.
For the reasons Ive set out, I dont think there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds 
to uphold this complaint. Im not persuaded that BPF has treated Mr R unfairly or acted 
unreasonably. And I cant properly require BPF to compensate Mr R or do anything else. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
comments and information by 8 December 2021 (which was later extended at the request 
of one of the parties). 
The time set for responses has now passed. Mr R has accepted my provisional decision 
and BPF has nothing further to add. I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my 
provisional findings, in the circumstances. For the reasons set out, Im not persuaded 
there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. I dont think BPF 
has treated Mr R unfairly or acted unreasonably. And I cant properly require BPF to 
compensate Mr R or do anything else.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is that the Financial Ombudsman Service is able to 
consider Mr Rs complaint and, having done so, Im unable to uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman