DRN-3394869
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the way in which Zurich Assurance Limited handled a claim made on 
her income protection policy (the policy) and then taking the decision to decline her claim. 
Shes also unhappy that Zurich also cancelled the policy. 
What happened
Mrs B took out the policy, underwritten by Zurich, in or around September 2019. During the 
application process she was asked questions  including about her health. Mrs Bs 
application was accepted. Around a year later, Mrs B was signed off work with a stress-
related problem. She made a claim on the policy.
Mrs B is unhappy with the time taken by Zurich to assess her claim. 
Zurich declined the claim because it said Mrs B hadnt given accurate answers about her 
health during the application process. They said that she hadnt disclosed  amongst other 
things  an eating disorder and that shed had stress and anxiety in the five years before 
applying for the policy. Zurich also cancelled the policy and refunded the monthly premiums 
Mrs B had paid for it. 
Mrs B doesnt think Zurich has acted fairly. She says Zurich manipulated the medical 
information received to decline her claim and cancel the policy.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Mrs B 
disagreed so her complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is 
that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer (in this case Zurich) has to show it would have 
offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Zurich says Mrs B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
answered certain medical questions when taking out the policy. 
I think Zurich has acted fairly and reasonably by declining Mrs Bs claim and cancelling the 
policy. Ill explain why. 
When applying for the policy, Mrs B was asked: 
Do you currently have or have you ever had:
Schizophrenia, bi-polar disorder, manic depression, attempted suicide, episode of 
self-harm, an eating disorder, or any other mental illness that has required a stay in 
hospital or referral to a Psychiatrist?
Ill refer to this as the eating disorder question.
Mrs B was also asked:
In the last 5 years, unless you have already told us earlier in this application, have 
you had, or been advised to take any medication or had any treatment for:
Anxiety, stress, depression, chronic fatigue, OCD or other mental illness.
Ill refer to this as the anxiety and stress question.
Mrs B answered no to both questions. But when Zurich reviewed her claim, it concluded 
that Mrs B shouldve answered yes to both questions.
Having considered the medical evidence, Im satisfied that Zurich has fairly and reasonably 
reached that conclusion.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account what Mrs B says about the questions not 
being clear to her, and the reasons why she thinks this. However, Im satisfied that the 
questions asked of her were sufficiently clear. 
The eating disorder question
An emotional wellbeing report dated July 2020 (so after Mrs B applied for the policy) reflects 
that Mrs B reported lifelong difficulties. Including anorexia nervosa, anxiety and depression. 
Mrs B is very anxious that is worse in the last 4 months  long history of anorexia since she 
was 18 years old. She has a vigorous exercise routine and specific ritual around food
A Consultant Psychiatrist report dated October 2021 reflects: Also been concerns about 
problematic eating. Historically BMI has been as low as 16.5. When she was 18 years old, 
she got very worried as someone had said if you have muscle it will later turn into fat. She 
became quite restrictive with her eating, only eating 7 things for breakfast recently some 
therapy for her eating disorder until July this year
Although these two reports were prepared after Mrs B applied for the policy, given the 
contents, I think theyre relevant to the issue of whether Mrs B answered the eating disorder 
question correctly. 
Mrs B has recently said that her eating traits are because of autism. And when she started 
reaching out for help in 2020, health professionals put her in the anorexic box because she 
went long periods of time without eating and many of the eating traits are associated with 
anorexia. She said, for her, such eating traits were normal. She just considered herself to be a fussy eater and had a high sensitivity to different foods. So, she didnt see herself as 
having an eating disorder. Shed never required a stay in hospital or referral to a Psychiatrist 
 and hadnt received a diagnosis of anorexia. 
Mrs B says that reference to her having a long history of anorexia in the emotional wellbeing 
health report dated 22 July 2020 was incorrect. After her claim was declined, she wrote to 
the therapist who prepared the report stating this and asking for all reference to be removed. 
As a result, an amended report was issued in the summer of 2021 - which removed 
reference to anorexia. 
However, the therapist didnt provide any explanation as to why hed included reference to 
Mrs B living with anorexia from the age of 18 in the original report  or state that this had 
been included in error. Further, Mrs B received a copy of the occupational report dated July 
2020, soon after it had been prepared and she didnt seek to correct it at that time. 
I know Mrs B told our investigator in March 2022 (in response to his view) that she felt 
exhausted at the time. And that although the report was factually inaccurate, she didnt ask 
for it to be changed then because she just wanted to the get the medical help she needed. 
But thats different to what she told our service on 30 June 2021  shortly after being told 
that her claim had been declined and the policy cancelled. She said: I have re-read the 
report and found that information I told him has been misconstrued, of which I am 
questioning ... at present. (Please note that at this time I was very low state and therefore my 
concentration was impacted). 
Overall, Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that had she not spoken about having 
anorexia from the age of 18 to the therapist, or if what shed said had been misconstrued by 
them in some way, she wouldve raised this at the time. 
So, whilst Ive taken into account Mrs B comments about her eating traits, I think Zurich has 
fairly concluded that she ought to have answered yes to the eating disorder question. And 
that she made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. 
The anxiety and stress question
The emotional wellbeing report dated July 2020 reflects that Mrs B had lifelong difficulties 
with anxiety and depression. And the amended report also reflects that.
Theres an occupational health report dated November 2020 which reflects that, although 
her symptoms had worsened in early 2020, Mrs B reported, looking back, experiencing 
depressive symptoms towards the end of 2018. Its also reflected that she had those 
symptoms on and off throughout 2019. Its reflected that triggers related to work stress. 
She began a new role in 2018 and was left to get on with it and felt unsupervised.  
A Consultant Psychiatrist report dated October 2020 also reflects that Mrs B stated that her 
mood has been low for a long time and that she first noticed a deterioration in mood in 
December 2018. The following year, her job become more difficult and she was very 
stressed within the work environment. 
Mrs B says she felt low in mood for one day in December 2018 but didnt think anything of it 
at the time. However, given the totality other medical evidence, Im satisfied that it was more 
than that. 
Ive also taken into account whats been said about its only with hindsight that Mrs B could 
reflect (when she was receiving treatment in 2020 and beyond) that she was experiencing 
stress, anxiety and depressive symptoms. She didnt realise that at the time  and before taking out the policy. And she hadnt been to her GP about this or received any treatment 
before taking out the policy. I understand the point thats being made. Ive also taken on 
board what Mrs B says about having a heavy workload but never considered herself as 
having stress. And that she didnt use this word when talking to management about her 
issues at work before taking out the policy. 
However, considering the medical reports that were obtained after taking out the policy, and 
the medical history set out therein, I think Zurich has fairly concluded that Mrs B shouldve 
answered the anxiety and stress question yes. And that this also amounts to a qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA. 
Declining the claim and cancelling the policy
Zurich says Mrs Bs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. And so, in line with 
CIDRA, it doesnt have to pay any claim under the policy as it can treat the policy as if it 
never existed. It also doesnt need to return the premiums paid for the policy. 
I note that in this case Zurich has returned the monthly premiums, which goes beyond what 
its required to do under CIDRA if Mrs B made a reckless or deliberate disclosure. 
Im not going to make a finding on whether Mrs Bs misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless, because I dont think it matters in this particular case for the reasons Ill go on to 
explain. Im satisfied that the misrepresentations made by her when answering the eating 
disorder question and anxiety and stress question were (at the very least) careless. 
And having looked at the underwriting guidance Zurich has provided, Im satisfied that had 
Mrs B answered yes to both questions, this wouldve led Zurich to obtain further information 
from her. And had that information been given correctly, Im satisfied Zurich wouldve 
declined the application for the policy. Thats because Im persuaded that it wouldve been 
reasonable for Zurich to conclude that Mrs B had a history of anorexia. And combined with a 
history of anxiety and depressive episodes, based on the underwriting criteria provided, it 
wouldve declined cover. 
So, Mrs B wouldnt have taken out the policy and wouldnt have paid any premiums to 
Zurich. So, even if the misrepresentations were careless - and not deliberate or reckless - I 
think it would be fair for Zurich to treat the policy as never been taken out, decline the claim 
made under the policy and refund the premiums paid for the policy to Mrs B  which its 
already done. 
Delays
Mrs B is unhappy with the time taken by Zurich to assess her claim. There was a long time 
between her making her claim and it being assessed. However, I dont think Zurich was 
responsible for the delay. 
Im satisfied Zurich was waiting for medical records from Mrs Bs GP surgery and pro-
actively chased the surgery for this information. Once it obtained the information it needed, 
Im satisfied it promptly considered the information, raising further queries which were 
appropriate. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman