DRN-2811025
The complaint
Mr G and Ms P are unhappy with the way that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited dealt 
with the initial stages of their home insurance claim for flood damage.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr G and Ms P suffered a flood to their property. It affected the bedrooms, 
which were below ground, with the kitchen and living accommodation on the upper floor. 
Admiral appointed loss adjusters who arranged an initial inspection and appointed a drying 
company to carry out initial drying while the claim was considered. Mr G and Ms P and their 
family were moved to alternative accommodation, initially in a hotel.
Admiral agreed liability for the claim by 9 April. Mr G and Ms P were unhappy with the drying 
company so Admiral agreed to appoint a replacement. Issues then arose over the finding of 
alternative accommodation, the management of their claim and the payment of disturbance 
allowance and delays in payment for the hotel.
Admiral reviewed Mr Gs initial complaint in June 2019 and didnt consider it had done 
anything wrong. It agreed that it would review payments etc as the claim continued.
Mr G raised a complaint with this service in December 2019. He raised other issues 
concerning the claim payments as the claim had progressed. Our investigator explained in 
his review that we could only look at issues dealt with in Admirals final response letter of 
June 2019, concerning the initial stages of the claim. In response to that he found that there 
were delays, a failure to communicate and difficulties over the booking of accommodation. 
He proposed that Admiral pay £250 compensation.
Admiral agreed to pay the proposed compensation if Mr G and Ms P agreed. However Mr G 
advised that they didnt think the compensation proposed was enough and that Admiral 
hadnt paid sufficient disturbance allowance.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should reiterate that my decision is concerned with those matters Mr G and Ms P 
complained about and which were dealt with in Admirals final response letter of June 2019. 
Mr Gs and Ms Ps further complaints about the claim are currently being dealt with 
separately by Admiral.
alternative accommodation
There were problems sourcing the right accommodation in the right area for Mr G and Ms P 
and their family which took several weeks to find. Unfortunately although as far as 
reasonably possible, similar accommodation in the same area as the home should be found, 
such accommodation, available on short term lets, is scarce. So although I understand the 
frustration and the difficulties of staying in a hotel, I cant find that Admiral acted 
unreasonably here.
As for paying for the hotel, Mr G booked the first three days himself and agreed later with 
Admiral that it would pay it. He found himself being chased by the hotel for payment. Similar 
difficulties arose over payment for further stays which were subject to delays. Also he found 
that the accommodation agency didnt rebook the hotel because it wasnt told by the loss 
adjusters to do so. I appreciate that this caused frustration. 
In my view if a hotel knows payment is being made by insurers then it shouldnt be 
embarrassing its customers about the payment due. However I cant hold Admiral 
responsible for that. But I do consider its loss adjusters should have acted quicker and not 
left Mr G to do the chasing up. This concerns the first three days payment as well.
failures in communication
Mr G says that he tried to get through a number of times to the loss adjuster, particularly to 
find out what was happening over the outcome of the claim. He says he didnt receive call-
backs. As the loss adjusters used mobile phones Admiral has no evidence as to what 
happened here. Im inclined to accept what Mr G says, he was clearly very anxious for the 
matter to proceed especially during the first two or three months of the claim.
disturbance allowance
Mr G and Ms P were paid a disturbance allowance during the time they were in hotel 
accommodation. This was set at £10 per person per day. Initially for their two children it was 
going to be £5 but Admiral agreed to increase it to £10. Mr G says this isnt enough and 
compares unfavourably with HMRCs rates. 
The purpose of a disturbance allowance is to compensate the consumer when they dont 
have access to cooking and/or washing facilities for the extra expense involved. This takes 
into account that the consumer would in the normal course of events be paying for food, 
cooking etc. It is an industry standard rate and saves the need for the consumer having to 
keep receipts or evidence of what they have been paying. I think the payment was 
reasonable. If Mr G has incurred more expenses and he has evidence of that he should put 
it to Admiral.
change of loss adjuster
The first loss adjuster who came out to visit was changed because of the complexity of the 
claim. A chartered surveyor carried out a report. The new loss adjuster carried out a review 
by video link. Mr G felt that because of the severity of the damage the new loss adjuster 
should have carried out an inspection on site.
I think it was reasonable, having regard to the fact that a survey had been carried out, for the 
new loss adjuster to inspect the property by video link. I dont think this prejudiced the case.delays and poor management of the claim
Mr G says that the survey was only carried out at his prompting, and that the loss adjusters 
delayed in carrying out a preliminary review. He also was upset with the restoration company 
and the way they had managed the drying out, particularly that it had installed a dehumidifier 
with a damaged wire sitting in water.
I think Admiral could have dealt with the initial stages of this claim more quickly. I think it 
carried out its preliminary inspection within a reasonable time, two days after the claim was 
reported. I dont think it necessarily could have decided then and there that the claim could 
be accepted. Though there clearly was a flood, it was thought that this could have been due 
to rising ground water which is an exclusion in the policy. But Mr G and Ms P did have full 
accidental damage cover. After the survey some 17 days into the claim determined the 
cause of the flood was a blocked drain in the neighbours garden it took another three weeks 
for that to be reviewed and Mr G had to chase to find out by which time the claim had been 
running for about six weeks. I think that was unacceptable.
I understand that Mr G was unhappy with the drying company and that it seemed to leave 
the property with standing water rather than pumping it out. Admiral addressed those 
concerns and appointed another company. As regards the dehumidifier with the damaged 
wire, the photo clearly shows a wire with a frayed outer plastic. I can understand Mr Gs 
alarm at that, and at the potential risk to his family. I cant say whether there was any danger 
of the live wire being exposed. However I can only award compensation for what happened 
rather than for what might have happened, though I recognise Mr Gs concern.
I do think that Mr G had to chase around in the early days of this claim when it should have 
been managed more closely by the loss adjusters.
Putting things right
I think for the delays, poor management and lack of communication in the early part of this 
claim, Admiral should pay compensation of £250.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay to Mr G and 
Ms P £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman