DRN-2579396
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr M say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mrs H and Mr M took out a mortgage with Lloyds in early 2003. Around the same time, they 
took out a PPI policy to protect their monthly mortgage repayments. The policy covered 
Mrs H. It would have paid Mrs H and Mr Ms monthly mortgage payments, plus £3 for every 
£1,000 of their initial mortgage, for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs H and Mr M 
disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs H and Mr Ms complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs H and Mr M say there was never any mention that a PPI policy would be attached to 
the mortgage. I havent seen a copy of Mrs H and Mr Ms application for the mortgage. 
But based on what we know about Lloydss sales process at the time and what weve 
seen in similar cases in the past, Im satisfied, on balance, that the mortgage application 
would have included equally prominent options to apply for, or to decline, the PPI. And 
Ive seen a copy of the separate application and direct debit instruction for the PPI, which 
Mrs H and Mr M both signed. Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds made Mrs H and Mr M 
aware that the PPI was optional. And I think they decided to take it, knowing that they 
had a choice  although I can understand how they may no longer remember this, so 
many years later.
Mrs H and Mr M have told us that Lloyds didnt give them advice about the PPI, or 
recommend that they take it out. But Lloyds says that the sale took place in branch, and 
that advice would have been provided. To be fair to Mrs H and Mr M, Ive assumed that 
Lloyds did recommend the PPI to them. This means that it had a responsibility to check 
that it was suitable for them. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time.
Mrs H and Mr M have told us that Mrs H would have been entitled to six months full pay, 
followed by six months half pay from her employer at the time if shed been off sick. But 
if shed made a successful claim on the PPI for accident, sickness or unemployment, it 
would have paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim. Whats more, it would 
have paid out in addition to any payments Mrs H received from her employer. So she 
could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
Ive thought about what Mrs H and Mr M have said about Mrs Hs job having been secure 
and stable. But I dont think there could have been any guarantee that this would 
continue to be the case indefinitely. Theyve also said that Mrs H was in good health, 
was very seldom off work, and didnt expect that to change. But the PPI was designed to 
protect Mrs H and Mr Ms mortgage payments against unexpected events.
Ive borne in mind that the mortgage was a long-term financial commitment, secured on 
Mrs H and Mr Ms home, and the consequences of not keeping up with their mortgage 
payments could have been serious.
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful to Mrs H and 
Mr M, especially as the PPI application shows that Mr M wasnt working at the time. And 
Mrs H and Mr M have told us that aside from the payments Mrs H would have received 
from her employer, they had no savings or other means they could have used to make 
their monthly mortgage payments if Mrs H had been off sick, or if shed lost her job.
It may be that Lloyds could have explained the cost of the PPI better than it did. But Ive 
explained that Im satisfied that Mrs H and Mr M wanted this type of cover. The policy 
was competitively priced. Ive explained that I think it provided valuable cover for Mrs H 
and Mr M. And since they were paying for the PPI monthly, they could have cancelled it 
at any time if their circumstances changed, or if they decided they no longer wanted the 
cover.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover (for example, 
unusual employment arrangements, or existing medical conditions). But from what Ive 
seen of Mrs Hs circumstances when the policy was taken out, its unlikely shed have 
been affected by any of these. So I dont think that better information about the policy 
would put Mrs H and Mr M off the PPI. On balance, I think theyd still have taken it out.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman