DRN-3206516
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that the change in charging structure at TSB Bank plc 
(TSB) has worsened their financial situation. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P complained to TSB about the change in its pricing structure of its overdrafts. 
They say the change in rate makes it more difficult for them to pay off their overdraft and that 
the charges are excessive and unfair. 
TSB says Mr and Mrs P were notified in writing about the change to the charging structure 
and the fees applied to their account were correctly applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
One of our adjudicators looked into their concerns and thought that TSB shouldve realised 
that Mr and Mrs P were in financial difficulty and refunded the overdraft charges applied to 
the account from November 2018 because the account in question hadnt maintained a 
credit balance for a significant period of time. 
TSB disagreed that Mr and Mrs P were suffering financial difficulties. It says Mr and Mrs P 
had healthy regular incoming payments into the account and provided statements to show 
they had surplus funds held in another account which they couldve used to pay their 
overdraft. Following receipt of this information our adjudicator changed their view and no 
longer upheld the complaint.  
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs P are complaining about the proportionality of the charges applied 
to their account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent 
considered whether the various amounts TSB charged over the years were fair and 
reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at TSB various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr and Mrs P if 
it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr and Mrs Ps account in circumstances where 
it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr and Mrs P were 
experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where TSB didnt treat Mr and Mrs P fairly 
and reasonably. I dont think that TSB did treat Mr and Mrs P unfairly or unreasonably here 
though. I say this because having looked at Mr and Mrs Ps statements I cant see anything 
to suggest that TSB ought to have realised they might have been experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Mr and Mrs P may argue their regular use of their overdraft was in itself an indication that 
they were struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over 
their expenditure, nonetheless there are significant and at times large amounts of non-
committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions. 
There were regular cash transfers into the account and out of the account into another 
account held by Mr P. And just having a cursory look at the statements of the other account I 
can see there was a surplus balance of over £8,000  enough to pay off their overdraft had 
they chosen to do so. I understand Mr P has told us that these funds were earmarked for his 
daughters wedding  and Mr P is perfectly entitled to decide how he spends his money  but 
having this much surplus cash and choosing not to pay back some or all of their overdraft 
does not show me Mr and Mrs P were experiencing financial difficulty. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for TSB to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr and Mrs Ps account was being 
used. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs P would have liked TSB to provide them with an alternative 
solution to paying back their overdraft when it changed its charging structure, but TSB are 
under no obligation to provide this just as Mr and Mrs P are free to shop around if they arent 
happy with what is on offer.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that TSB treated Mr and Mrs P 
unfairly or unreasonably and Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman