DRN-2063740
The complaint
Miss Is unhappy with Worldremit Ltds actions involving an international transfer she made.
A representative has been used to bring this complaint, but as the transaction was made 
from Miss Is account, Ive just referred to her in this decision.
What happened
In July 2020 I issued my provisional decision setting out what happened, and the outcome I 
planned to reach.
In February 2019 Miss I made an international transfer, a few days after the transaction, she 
contacted Worldremit to query why the payment hadnt reached the recipient. She was told 
shed phoned up after the original instruction and changed the payee details. After this, she 
let Worldremit know she hadnt changed the payee details and wanted this looked into. And 
in March 2019 she started writing emails to Worldremit to express her concerns about the 
delay in the payment being made. In these contacts, Miss I made it clear she thought this 
was fraudulent activity.
Worldremit tried to recall the funds from the account theyd been sent. But on 21 March 2019 
told Miss I the receiving account didnt have a recall function  so they couldnt get her 
money back. In April 2019 Worldremit say they asked Miss I to get in touch with the police 
and also gave her contact details for their fraud department.
In June 2019 Miss I got in touch with us and asked us to look into things. As Worldremit 
hadnt investigated a complaint yet, we passed her complaint over to them, and asked they 
look into things. 
Worldremit issued their findings on 13 September 2019. In their letter they explained theyd 
refunded Miss I the full sterling amount transferred, of around £3,300. This was because 
theyd determined Miss I had made the first call on the day of the transfer, but then there 
were a further three calls where someone had impersonated Miss I.
Miss I though didnt accept this resolved the complaint. She said this didnt take into account 
the movement in exchange rates, which meant shed lost £167, and that shed had to borrow 
money to complete the original transfer at a rate of 5% per month.
So, Miss I asked one of our investigators to look into things. He ultimately felt Worldremit 
had acted fairly by refunding Miss I the original transfer amount of £3,300. He didnt think 
Worldremit needed to refund Miss I the difference in the exchange rate or the interest costs, 
because theyd followed their processes to verify the caller on the fraudulent calls  and it 
was the fraudsters actions that caused this issue. But did think Worldremit should pay Miss I 
£100 compensation, for the delay in refunding the money.
Worldremit accepted this outcome. But Miss I didnt, she felt the fraud was an inside job, and 
that Worldremit arent telling us the truth of what happened. She said Worldremit should 
have called her to check the change in instructions were genuine  and because they didnt 
theyre responsible for the interest rate losses which she said were 7.5% for the first three 
months, rising to 10% afterwards. As Miss I didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The transaction that led to all these issues has been accepted as fraudulent, and refunded 
by Worldremit, so I dont need to consider this. But I do need to consider whether the 
suggested way of putting this matter right is fair, and for the reasons Ill go on to explain I 
think increasing compensation from £100, to £250, is a fair outcome.
Delay in refunding the fraudulent transaction
From the evidence I have Miss I had concerns that the transaction had been intercepted 
three days after making the payment. So, she had concerns on 22 February 2019, but the 
transaction wasnt actually refunded to her until 13 September 2019  almost seven months 
later.
This is an extremely long time from the issue being raised, to the refund being applied. So, 
Ive looked at whats happened in this period of time.
Once Worldremit had been told the transaction might be fraudulent they attempted to reclaim 
the funds from the account they were sent to. This is as Id expect, and they got confirmation 
on 21 March 2019 it wouldnt be possible for any money to be recovered.
Then, in April they told Miss I to get in touch with their fraud department. Ive not been 
provided with any information about whether she did or didnt, but Ive also not seen anything 
to say Worldremit couldnt have passed this issue over to their fraud department themselves 
to have this issue looked into.
In June, Miss I gets in touch with us, and we pass the complaint over to Worldremit after 
getting some more information from Miss I in July. Worldremit then refund the money in 
September 2019.
In their responses to us Worldremit accept they could have refunded the money earlier  and 
based on what Ive seen I agree. I think from 21 March onwards there were opportunities for 
Worldremit to have refunded the money while they carried out their investigations  but 
instead Miss I had to wait months, and make a complaint, before the money was refunded.
Our investigator awarded £100, but given all the circumstances Ive outlined above, I think 
£250 is a fairer outcome for this part of the complaint.
Should Worldremit refund Miss I for the interest charges on the loan she took out, and the 
difference in exchange rates 
Having considered these two issues carefully Im satisfied Worldremit arent required to 
refund these two elements to Miss I.
Worldremit have relied on their terms which say they wont be responsible for losses 
resulting from fraudulent activity. Miss I argues they were responsible for the fraud  and in 
that situation I think itd be fairer to say Worldremit should refund Miss Is losses.But having considered all the facts I dont think I can reasonably say Worldremit are 
responsible for what happened. A fraudster phoned up, and impersonated Miss I to redirect 
the funds. Miss I might argue this was only successful because of Worldremits processes, 
or because it was an inside job as shes said. Ive not seen anything to evidence it was an 
inside job. And I understand Miss I has significant concerns over this but having listened to 
the phone calls Im satisfied Worldremit followed their processes when verifying the other 
caller. So, on this portion of the complaint I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss I replied and said she accepted my decision.
Worldremit replied and said they accepted my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to change the 
outcome Ive reached. 
Putting things right
Worldremit must pay Miss I £250 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Worldremit Ltd to pay Miss I £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman