DRN-2877956
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled her breakdown 
claim, while on holiday abroad.
Miss Hs partner, Mr T, has brought the complaint with her and has been the main person 
involved so Ill mostly refer to him. Reference to IPA will include actions of their agents.
 
What happened
Mr T was driving his family to their holiday destination on 4 August 2019, when their car 
unfortunately broke down. As Miss H had breakdown cover with IPA they called for 
assistance. It took a while to get through to anyone, but Mr T finally spoke to someone 
around 7pm local time, when he was told someone would be in touch in half an hour.
Unfortunately, after chasing the matter up several times, it wasnt until some-time after 9pm 
that Mr T received a call from IPA, to say a mechanic was on their way. And he says waiting 
by the roadside with two young children wasnt a nice experience.
Mr T says that when the recovery vehicle finally arrived it was only by luck that it was large 
enough, as the children had been picked up by a relative a little earlier.
The following day, Mr T called and had a similar experience of having to chase things up.
Mr T stressed there was urgency in the matter because they were on a touring holiday and 
due to visit several locations. Mr T was very frustrated to be told that their car might not even 
be looked at by a garage until September 2019, which was after the holiday wouldve ended.
On 6 August 2019, Mr T had several lengthy phone calls with IPA, again stressing that they 
were due to be on the move the following morning. Nothing could be arranged in time and 
the various options available under the policy were discussed. IPA said the policy couldnt 
provide a car for the duration of Mr Ts holiday, so he ended up having to find, and pay for, 
accommodation to stay where they were for a few more days.
Mr T was able to collect a car on 10 August 2019, but he says it was unsuitable. While it was 
a seven-seater it was too small for all the intended passengers and luggage to fit. This 
meant some of the party had to pay to take public transport, and some luggage had to be left 
behind.
Mr T had to drive to the garage, where the car had been taken, to collect the luggage they 
needed. Mr T says their car was left in excellent condition, and photos were taken at the time 
in case anything went wrong.
The car was intended to get Mr T and his party to their final holiday destination, where theyd 
be for a few days. Mr T was told that he would have to drop it off and then have a second car 
to get to a port for their departure. They would then be foot passengers on a ferry and have 
to have a third car for their onward journey home back in the UK.
Mr T and his family reached their final destination later on the 10th but then the car had to be 
dropped off at an airport, which took quite some time and involved a wait for a taxi back to 
the accommodation.
Mr T was also upset to be told their car may not be returned to the UK until the end of 
August, this was because they needed it, and its contents, for their August Bank Holiday 
plans.
Mr T said that throughout the week there were a series of disappointing calls where different 
scenarios for their departure to the UK were discussed. There were difficulties in arranging a 
car to get Mr T and his family to the port and so theyd now have to fly home. Mr T says they 
had to cut short their plans on 15 August 2019, in order to provide pictures of passports for 
the bookings.
Then on 16 August 2019, Mr T was told the flights at more suitable times had all gone and 
theyd have to either fly late on the Saturday or very early on the Sunday. In the end, it was 
agreed that Mr T could have £700 toward their own bookings, but even then, confirmation of 
this agreement had to be chased up.
While Mr T says the flights and taxis went smoothly, Miss Hs bag was lost by the airline. He 
accepts this wasnt IPAs fault but he doesnt believe it wouldve happened if theyd been 
able to use the ferry as had been agreed initially.
Overall, Mr T doesnt feel like he and his family had a holiday at all as there was so much 
hassle arranging everything.
Once Mr T had returned home, he tried to obtain timescales for the repatriation of his car 
and its contents. It couldnt be guaranteed that the car would be back in time for their August 
Bank Holiday plans and their other car was in need of repair. Mr T says this meant they had 
to get their second car repaired at short notice, which cost more. And as the second car was 
smaller, that meant the plans were further disrupted with additional expense incurred. The 
camping equipment in the car abroad was intended to be used on the Bank Holiday, so they 
were forced to spend £300 on replacements.
Mr T was then told there would be a bill of £500 for storage of the car abroad. And when the 
car was finally returned it was found to have been damaged since it had last been seen.
Mr T says there was a further fight before IPA would agree to the cost of returning the car to 
the condition it had been in previously.
Mr T complained about all this to IPA. They apologised for distress and inconvenience 
caused and paid £300 in compensation. Mr T didnt think that was enough, so brought the 
matter to our service to consider.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They felt Miss H had received what she was 
entitled to under the policy, and while acknowledging the distressing events theyd been 
through, said the £300 compensation was appropriate.
Mr T didnt agree. He felt too much focus was being given to what the policy covered and 
that there had been many losses which he felt IPA ought to cover because of the way they 
had handled everything.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
I didnt think some of the conditions IPA had imposed were actually written into the policy, so 
I emailed IPA setting out my thoughts. I said:On reading the policy it would seem to me that section E2 was fulfilled through the roadside
recovery and onward transport to their accommodation. But what isnt clear is why Mr T
wasnt offered the £750 towards hire under section E4.
I think by far the best option would have been for Mr T to hire a car for the duration of the 
holiday. While £750 was unlikely to be sufficient to cover that  meaning Mr T would have 
had to make a contribution  it wouldve allowed him and his family to use the 
accommodation booked at their second destination. And meant they wouldnt have had to 
pay for an extra three days at their first destination.
I cant see that the policy wouldnt allow for that, or that it dictated Mr T could only have
one hire car to get to the final destination, and one to get them to their international 
departure point. The policy wording provided isn't that specific and simply suggests up to 
£750 is available towards hire.
Because of that, I think IPA ought to cover the cost of the three days extra accommodation 
that was incurred by Mr T, subject to proof of loss and plus interest at the rate of 8% per 
annum simple (from the date of loss to the date payment is issued). The reason being, Mr T 
wouldnt have incurred that additional cost if hed been able to hire a car.
Mr T has also claimed for having to replace camping equipment that wasn't returned to
them promptly. I dont believe this wouldve necessarily led to the camping equipment being
available, so I dont intend to make an award for that. Rather, I think thats an unfortunate
consequence of the need for repatriation  rather than an insured loss or anything IPA did
wrong. And I cant see that theres any guarantee in the policy as to how quickly repatriation 
will be arranged, nor have I seen anything to suggest there were unreasonable delays on 
IPAs part.
Turning to section E6, if you cant use your vehicle to get home. IPA appears to have 
imposed a limit on the cost, which I cant see is covered in the terms and conditions. I can 
appreciate why IPA might want to keep the costs down, but I dont think they can impose an 
arbitrary limit. So, I think IPA ought to cover the full cost of the flights Mr T paid for to get 
home, plus interest on the same terms as outlined above.
Looking at compensation, if Mr T had been able to use the £750 towards hiring a car for
the duration of his holiday, I think things wouldve been far more enjoyable for him and his
family. In view of that, and whilst noting that IPA absorbed the storage costs, I think a further 
£200 compensation would be reasonable in the circumstances.
IPA didnt disagree with anything I said, and only confirmed that theyd consider the cost of 
accommodation.
The above resolution was also put to Mr T for his consideration, but he hasnt replied.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither IPA nor Mr T have objected to what I suggested as a fair outcome, I see no 
reason to depart from it. For completeness though I will elaborate on the different sections of 
cover Ive referred to above.
Section E2 relates to help at the roadside and says:If your vehicle breaks down, we will come to where the vehicle is located. We will arrange 
and pay for your vehicle, the driver and up to seven passengers to be taken to a local 
garage (normally within 20 miles) for it to be repaired. You must pay for the cost of any 
repairs.
I consider IPA to have fulfilled that section of the policy by taking their car to a local garage 
and taking Mr T onward to his destination, albeit not as quickly as hed have liked and a little 
extra effort on his part.
Section E4 relates to not being able to use your vehicle. As the car couldnt be fixed this is 
relevant and says:
If during your journey, your vehicle breaks down, and it is not safe to drive, and it will take at 
least eight hours to repair we will arrange and pay for the most appropriate solution from 
one of the following options:
To move you, your passengers and luggage to where you were originally travelling 
to, and then, once your vehicle has been repaired, take you back to your vehicle or 
bring your vehicle to you: or
The cost of hiring another car while your vehicle is being repaired. We will pay up to a 
maximum £750 in total, as long as you are able to meet the conditions of the hire-
company: or
We will pay for bed and breakfast costs of up to a maximum £125 per person, up to a 
maximum of £750 in total for everyone in your group while your vehicle is being 
repaired, as long as you have already paid for your original accommodation and you 
cant get your money back.
This is where I think IPA got things wrong. Given Mr T and his family were on a touring 
holiday with accommodation booked at three different locations it seems the most suitable 
option wouldve been the hire car. Mr T and his family didnt require extra accommodation as 
it had all been booked. And it had been established pretty early on that the car wouldnt be 
repaired in time.
That was the chosen option, but IPA tried to limit it to two individual periods of hire. I 
understand they might want to do that to keep costs down, but I dont see think thats what 
the policy provides. Even though £750 may not have been enough for the number of days 
required, I think if Mr T had been offered the £750 towards hiring a car for the duration of the 
trip, hed have taken that. It wouldve negated him having to change plans and book 
additional accommodation. So, I think that cost was incurred unnecessarily, with plans being 
significantly disrupted.
Section E6 relates to being unable to use your own car to get home, it says:
If after a breakdown your vehicle is still not repaired or safe to drive when it is time for you 
to go home, we will pay for suitable transport to get you, your passengers and your luggage 
to your home, and up to £150 towards other travel costs in the UK while you wait for your 
own vehicle. We will also pay storage charges (up to £100) while your vehicle is waiting to 
be repaired, collected or taken to the UK.
We will then
take your vehicle to your home or your chosen repairer in the UK
I dont see that theres a limit on the travel costs, so I dont think it was fair for IPA to impose 
one. In view of this I consider it fair to require IPA to cover the outstanding travel cost Mr T paid for him and his party to return to the UK.
Turning to the experience as a whole, I understand it wouldve been very stressful and that if 
IPA hadnt imposed terms which arent set out in the policy, Mr T and his family would have 
had a far greater experience, even if at a cost to them for a hire car. I dont think it wouldve 
necessarily lifted all the stress away, nor do I think it wouldve meant their car was 
repatriated any quicker  but overall, I think £500 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience is suitable, inclusive of amounts already paid in that respect.
I maintain that the expense of additional camping equipment may have never been 
avoidable, so I dont intend to make an award for that. The same goes for the repairs to their 
other car. And while I appreciate what Mr T said about Miss Hs handbag, I think that was 
unfortunate but dont think theres enough for me to say IPA should be responsible for that.
I appreciate having to put right the damage to the car which had been repatriated was 
unwelcome, I think IPA did the right thing in covering that cost. I appreciate this was more 
trouble and upset for Mr T but Ive taken that into account in my overall consideration of 
compensation above. I also take into account that Mr T didnt have to pay the cost of 
storage, which would have been considerable  as was the total benefit received.
Putting things right
I require Inter Partner Assistance SA to put things right as follows:
Reimburse Miss H the cost of three days additional accommodation paid to remain at 
their initial destination.
Reimburse Miss H for travel costs incurred in returning home, over and above those 
already paid.
Pay Miss H £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused, inclusive of 
any amounts already paid.
The reimbursements should include interest at the rate of 8% per annum simple, from the 
date the payments were made until the date theyre repaid. HMRC requires IPA to deduct 
tax from the interest. They should provide Miss H with a certificate showing that, if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold Miss Hs complaint. I require Inter Partner Assistance SA 
to put things right as set out above. I make no other award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman