DRN-3902266
The complaint
M Limited (through its director Mr Q) complains that Society of Lloyds mishandled a claim 
on a minibus insurance policy.
Where I refer to Lloyds, I refer to the relevant syndicate at Lloyds and I include call-handlers 
and others insofar as I hold Lloyds responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
M Limited had a minibus which it used in the business of travel and events. For the year 
from March 2021, M Limited had a minibus insurance policy under which Lloyds was 
responsible for dealing with any claim. The policy schedule included a breakdown and 
recovery service.
Unfortunately on 24 February 2022, M Limited was carrying 15 passengers in the minibus 
when it broke down. In the late afternoon, M Limited called for help under the policy. Lloyds 
tried- but failed- to arrange a recovery vehicle.
M Limited complained to Lloyds about its response. 
By a final response dated early June 2022, Lloyds said it had paid £100.00 and later 
increased it to £150.00. M Limited brought its complaint to us in mid-June 2022.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that M 
Limited had experienced a significant amount of inconvenience. He didnt think that £150.00 
was fair. He recommended that Lloyds should increase the trouble and upset payment to 
£300.00.
Lloyds disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. It says, in summary, that:
£150.00 is a fair compensatory offer.
M Limited also disagreed with the investigators opinion. Mr Q says, in summary, that:
Lloyds should have been well- equipped to have provided the service. They were 
not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that, for the year from March 2021, M Limited was paying over £2,000.00 to cover 
the minibus. That included cover for the value of the minibus, for liability to third parties and 
for the breakdown and recovery service.
I find it likely that the policy schedule for the year from March 2021 was similar to the policy 
schedule for the year from March 2022 which included the following:
Minibus breakdown and recovery service
Your insurance is extended to provide a breakdown and recovery service, should 
your vehicle break down during the course of a journey. Cover will only apply to the 
insured vehicle, which must be a minibus.
UK breakdown and recovery service
We will provide this cover for any breakdown occurring during the period of insurance 
and within the mainland of England
The following services will apply should your vehicle break down during the course of 
a journey and more than one mile from your home.
Roadside assistance
We will arrange assistance at the scene of the breakdown, and will arrange and pay 
for call-out fees and labour charges needed to start your vehicle.
Recovery
If the vehicle cannot be repaired quickly at the scene of the breakdown, we will 
arrange and pay the cost of taking the vehicle, you and up to 16 passengers from the 
place where the vehicle has broken down to any one place you choose.
I havent seen any mention of the breakdown and recovery service in the policy terms or in 
the Insurance Product Information Document. But, on balance, I find that the breakdown and 
recovery service was (as stated in the schedule) an extension of the insurance, for which 
Lloyds was responsible.
By 24 February 2022, M Limited had had the benefit of cover for almost a year. So I dont 
accept Mr Qs suggestion that it would be fair for Lloyds to refund the premium for that year.
M Limited called for help at about 16:30. Lloyds has accepted that M Limited had a 
reasonable expectation that help would be on the way. 
Instead, M Limited wasted time waiting for help under the policy. By about 19.45, Lloyds 
said it hadnt been able to arrange help for that day. Mr Q said he would leave the minibus 
where it was and call again in the morning if he still needed help.
Putting things right
M Limited lost the opportunity of roadside assistance to fix the minibus or of recovery to a 
garage for prompt repair. M Limited had to spend further time making its own arrangements 
in that regard. Also, M Limited suffered the inconvenience and loss of reputation as its 
customers had to make their own travel arrangements. 
Because of that impact on M Limited, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Lloyds to pay M 
Limited  in addition to its offer of £150.00  a further £150.00 for inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Society of Lloyds to pay M Limited  in addition to its offer of £150.00  a further 
£150.00 for inconvenience. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman