DRN-1708226
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aegon Investments Limited refused to pay his critical illness claim. Mr D 
is represented by his wife, Mrs D, in pursuing the complaint.
What happened
Mr D took out a protection policy through a third party broker. It offers him life and critical 
illness cover set up on a decreasing basis for an eleven-year term, which began in August 
2015. 
In May 2018, Mr D was sadly diagnosed with a type of heart failure. Mrs D helped him 
pursue a claim with Aegon for critical illness benefit in 2019. The claim was for heart attack.
Aegon issued a decision in September 2019. It told Mr D it could not pay the claim.
It said Mr Ds circumstances did not meet the defined policy wording of heart attack 
because there was no definite evidence of a myocardial infarction, nor was there required 
evidence of a rise in electrocardiographic (ECG) changes, troponins and/or cardiac 
enzymes, as required by the policy.  
Though Aegon took the view that Mr D had likely suffered a silent heart attack, it could not 
say whether this had occurred during the life of the policy or not. That, coupled with the lack 
of evidence to support the policy definition, meant Aegon had to refuse the claim.  
Mrs D appealed on Mr Ds behalf. Specifically, she said:
 
Mr D took out insurance to cover this type of circumstance;
the only reason the policy was changed in 2015 was because the broker had 
suggested Mr D could secure improved cover;
Mr D didnt suffer from any symptoms until 2017;
Mr D went for a check-up in 2016 because he had a family member suffer from heart 
attack but nothing was found at that time;
similarly, no concerns were raised during his 10-year cardiovascular risk tests which 
were assessed before the symptoms of 2017;
Mr D has been able to resume work but only on light duties  it is clear he has 
suffered a heart attack because he is left with persisting problems such as 
breathlessness. 
Aegon wasnt willing to change its view. It accepted there was some medical evidence which 
suggested Mr D may have suffered from a heart attack. But, it said there was no supportive 
medical evidence sufficient to meet the requirements of the policy wording.  
Mrs D brought Mr Ds complaint to this service. She supplied a letter from Mr Ds GP where 
he had said the medical evidence showed Mr D had suffered a likely myocardial infarction, 
which was why he now suffers from ischaemic heart disease. They submitted that Mr D had 
his silent heart attack in 2017.Our investigator said he didnt think the complaint could succeed. He said that Aegon was 
obliged to pay a claim where evidence from a policyholder showed a policy definition to be 
met. And in Mr Ds case, he felt Aegon had fairly concluded the policy wording for heart 
attack was not met. In particular, the investigator said there was no definite evidence of 
myocardial infarction, and since the policy wording required this, Aegon had been right to 
refuse the claim.
Mrs D said she and Mr D did not accept the investigators view. Mr D has heart failure and 
this will be degenerative. They were told by Mr Ds doctor that he had suffered a heart attack 
and they pursued a claim on that basis. Mrs D reiterated that Mr D had been told this in 
2018, after suffering symptoms in 2017. So, it couldnt be the case that Mr D suffered a heart 
attack before the policy began, as Aegon had suggested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Though I realise my decision wont be 
what Mr and Mrs D have hoped for, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached. I 
wont be asking Aegon to pay the claim. 
I know Mr and Mrs D feel strongly that Mr D took this policy out to cover him in 
circumstances akin to the position he is in now. And I dont doubt that. But, to be fair to both 
parties in a complaint, I need to look at the policy itself and decide if Aegon has acted within 
the policy terms or not.
Mr D has a contract of insurance with Aegon. This provides that a lump sum payment will be 
made to him for a number of listed critical illnesses or critical events. One of these is heart 
attack and it says:
 
Death of heart muscle, due to inadequate blood supply, that has resulted in all of the 
following evidence of acute myocardial infarction:
new characteristic electrocardiographic changes (or findings on a heart scan)
the characteristic rise of cardiac enzymes or Troponins.
 
The evidence must show a definite acute myocardial infarction.
For the above definition, the following isn't covered:
other acute coronary syndromes or angina without myocardial infarction.
 
So, it is correct that Aegon looks at Mr Ds medical evidence against the policy wording. 
Further, at the time the policy was taken out the wording above was consistent with the most 
recent guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers in its Statement of Best 
Practice (the Code). That Code suggests model wording for insurers to adopt in their critical 
illness offerings.
Aegons wording is actually less stringent than the ABI Code applicable at the time. It does 
not include a specified severity of troponins or require evidence of chest pain, as the model wording proposes. It follows that I do not find the policy wording to be unreasonable.
The policy wording also sets out (at section 9.2) how Aegon will obtain any medical evidence 
it requires relating to the critical illness. This is in order to establish if it will accept a claim. I 
have therefore looked at the medical evidence. I consider that Aegon has reached a fair 
assessment of it.
I can see why Mr Ds GP has said that he believes Mr D has suffered a heart attack, given 
he clearly has ongoing health problems and attending medical professionals attribute this to 
him having suffered a silent heart attack. Mr Ds treating cardiologist, Dr A confirms that Mr 
D has severely compromised left ventricular systolic function with some coronary artery 
disease. And he goes on to attribute this to a likely heart attack. 
But, that isnt being disputed by Aegon. What Aegon is saying is that it doesnt think the 
medical evidence supports that Mr D has suffered a heart attack as defined by the policy 
terms.
I agree with that. The wording above requires specific evidence (a rise in enzymes or 
troponins and ECG changes) to show that there has been a definite myocardial infarction. Mr 
D wrote to Dr A in August 2019 to ask him to confirm that hed had a heart attack. Dr A said:
There was no history of myocardial infarction as such but the most likely cause of 
the left ventricular systolic dysfunction, particularly with regional pattern is coronary 
artery disease/previous infarction.
Mr [D] did not present with an acute event. There are no serial ECG's confirming a 
new onset infarction, no cardiac enzymes or troponins available to support the 
diagnosis. However, the coronary artery disease is also supported by the presence of 
risk factors including hypertension and hyperlipidaemia along with documented family 
history of coronary artery disease.
Dr A also sent the same wording set out above to Aegon. Further, in an email to Mr D, Dr A 
also stated:
My conclusion that you had had a heart attack and then developed a degree of heart 
failure was based on the results of the tests (ECG, Echo and perfusion scan) and 
information from your GP rather than a documented event as AEGON seem to be 
looking for (e.g. evidence of a rise in cardiac enzymes) which of course you did not 
have!
Dr A confirms Mr D didnt have the measures that Aegons policy wording (and that 
proposed by the ABI) requires. Whilst Mr D may think that is unfair, the policy provides cover 
for the specified incident of a (measurable) heart attack.
Not every illness that could conceivably be a critical illness can be insured under a policy, 
else it would simply be unaffordable for policyholders. In this circumstance, silent heart 
attacks such as Mr Ds -which cannot be identified to a particular time or acute event- are not 
covered by the policy.
That doesnt mean Mr D didnt have a heart attack; clearly he has ongoing heart disease that 
likely have been caused by a silent heart attack. But, he hasnt suffered from a critical illness 
event as defined by his policy, and that is different. I cant therefore ask Aegon to do 
anything more. It has fairly refused the claim. My final decision
I was very sorry to learn that Mr D has been poorly. But, since I believe Aegon has 
reasonably refused his critical illness claim, Im unable to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman