DRN-3577117
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Santander UK Plc dealt with his claim for a refund of £1,636 
he paid using his credit card to fund a contract with a third party (A).
What happened
Mr S had a dispute with A arising from a contract he entered into that was funded with his 
Santander credit card. The contract in question provided for A to apply charges in relation to 
the release of a motorhome that was the subject of a chattel mortgage under an agreement 
between Mr S and another company (B). A had acquired Bs rights and interest under that 
agreement following Bs entry into administration.
Mr S says he felt he had no option other than to pay the charges imposed by A, as he 
needed the motorhome to be released. But he didnt agree with them and subsequently 
contacted Santander to seek recovery of the money hed paid.
Santander declined to reimburse Mr S. It said it wasnt liable to him, on the basis that the 
way the transaction with A was constructed fell outside the requirements for a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). The payment hadnt been made 
directly to A  instead, it had gone via a different company (C). Mr S was unhappy with 
Santanders response, but the bank wasnt prepared to change its position so he brought his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator was satisfied, based on further investigation, that there was an association 
between A and C sufficient to establish the existence of a debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship necessary to proceed with a section 75 claim. But she wasnt persuaded that A 
had made a misrepresentation or breached its contract with Mr S such that his claim might 
be successful.
The investigator noted that Mr S had expressed concern that the original contract with B 
hadnt permitted the imposition of charges in the event the motorhome needed to be 
returned to him. But she felt this was outside the arrangements funded by the credit card 
payment, and that this formed a separate agreement that A hadnt breached. So she didnt 
think Santander needed to reimburse Mr S.
Mr S didnt agree with the complaint outcome and asked for this review. In doing so, hes 
referenced a number of other assessments and decisions weve issued with similar 
circumstances, which he believes support his position.
My provisional decision
I recently issued my provisional conclusions setting out the events leading up to this 
complaint, and how I thought matters best resolved. I said:
The CCA makes provision for connected lender liability in specific circumstances, set 
out in section 75. As Santander explained to Mr S in its correspondence with him, 
section 75 doesnt provide an automatic right to receive a refund. There are several 
criteria that must be met for a successful claim against the creditor (or lender), which 
include that:
the agreement with the lender is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling 
within section 12(b) or (c) of the CCA
the agreement with the lender is not a non-commercial agreement
the debtor has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, a claim 
against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract
that claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash 
price of more than £100 but not more that £30,000
Here, theres no question that the financial limits apply to the transaction. Mr S paid a 
total of £1,636, but no individual item within that total was £100 or less. And Mr Ss credit 
agreement with Santander is not a non-commercial agreement; that is, its not a 
consumer credit agreement not made by Santander in the course of its business.
The key questions here are a) whether the agreement with Santander meets the 
definition of a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) of the 
CCA, and b) whether Mr S has, in relation to the arrangements with A, a claim against A 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract.
does the agreement with Santander meet the definition of a debtor-creditor-supplier
agreement?
Section 12(b) of the CCA says that a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within 
section 11(1)(b) and is made by the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in 
contemplation of future arrangements, between himself and the supplier. And section 
11(1)(b) says that a restricted-use credit agreement is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor.
Mr Ss agreement with Santander is a regulated consumer credit agreement. It was used 
to finance the transaction he was undertaking with A. But the payment was made to C. 
Santander has used this as the basis of its decision to decline Mr Ss claim, saying it was 
unable to find a link between A and C. Our investigator did find such a link via 
Companies House records. She noted that A and C ultimately had controlling directors 
that appeared to meet the definition of associates as defined in section 184 of the CCA, 
which also created an association between the corporate bodies A and C.
Section 187 of the CCA covers arrangements between creditor and supplier. It says:
A consumer credit agreement shall be treated as entered into under pre-existing 
arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if it is entered into in accordance 
with, or in furtherance of, arrangements previously made between persons 
mentioned in subsection (4)(a), (b) or (c).
Subsection (4) says the persons referred to in subsection (1) are:
(a)the creditor and the supplier;
(b)one of them and an associate of the others;
(c)an associate of one and an associate of the others.Given the associate connection established between A and C via the Companies House 
information, Im satisfied that the way section 187 operates preserves the pre-existing 
arrangements link between Mr S, Santander and A, notwithstanding the involvement of C 
as the person to whom payment was made. As such, I find that this aspect of the section 
75 requirement is met.
does Mr S have, in relation to the transaction financed by the agreement, a claim against 
A in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract?
Because Santander reached a different conclusion in respect of the debtor-creditor-
supplier arrangements, this aspect didnt form part of its reasons for declining Mr Ss 
claim. Our investigator did express a view on this point, but concluded that the claim 
would not be successful.
Its not necessary, for the operation of section 75, that a claim must be successful. It 
simply has to exist, either in misrepresentation or in breach of contract. Mr S undoubtedly 
has a claim. He argues that the rights acquired by A when it purchased them from B 
were no greater than the rights B itself held. He says A sought to impose a further 
condition on the release of the motorhome that was not afforded it by the original 
agreement, but that A held itself out as having the right to do so. That, claims Mr S, 
amounts to a misrepresentation by A that induced him to enter into the agreement with A 
and make the payment that he did. So I find that this aspect of the section 75 criteria is 
also met.
With this in mind, I have to conclude that Santander did not act fairly towards Mr S in 
respect of the reasons it gave for declining his claim. All the necessary aspects for a 
claim were met. So Ive gone on to consider how Santanders response affected Mr Ss 
position.
what was the impact of Santanders actions on Mr S?
It's apparent that Mr S was inconvenienced by the way Santander declined to look at his 
underlying claim, beyond its conclusion that section 75 didnt apply. In light of the trouble 
hes been put to in this respect, Im minded to award compensation, which I assess at 
£100. Im further inclined to say that Mr S has presented what appears to be a 
compelling claim in terms of misrepresentation by A. His submissions include a letter 
from Bs administrators, which includes the following:
Under the terms of the sale agreement
the purchaser is obliged to seek the consent of the CM (chattel 
mortgage) Holders to keep CM Vehicles in their possession
If the CM Holder does not wish to sell the CM Vehicle or otherwise make it 
available to the purchaser, then the purchaser is obliged to forthwith 
deliver the CM Vehicle up to them for no charge, save in circumstances 
where it does not have control of the CM motorhome
The administrators letter indicates that the agreements A purchased from B provided 
that the mortgaged property (as I understand it, the motorhome and among other things, 
any fixed additions or accessories) should be delivered up to Mr S without at least some 
of the charges A held out as having the right to collect. I can see that As assertion that 
having acquired Bs rights from the original agreement it was able to make such charges 
could well amount to a misrepresentation on As part that led Mr S to make payment.In light of this, Im minded to find that if Santander had received and properly considered 
Mr Ss claim in misrepresentation, there was a reasonable prospect that it would have 
agreed to meet his claim. So I consider it appropriate to require Santander to reimburse 
the £1,636 he paid A, with suitable interest to reflect the time hes been without the use 
of his funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response. 
Neither Mr S nor Santander has responded within the timescale I gave, or sought to question 
the events as I described them. So I dont have any persuasive reason to reach a different 
conclusion from the one I proposed in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, which forms part of this determination, 
my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. To resolve it I require Santander UK Plc 
to take the following steps within 28 days of Mr Ss acceptance:
1. Pay Mr S £1,636, together with annual interest at 8% simple from the date Mr S 
repaid the credit card transaction on his account to the date Santander settles the 
claim. If Santander deducts tax from the interest element of my award, it should 
confirm to Mr S that it has done so and provide him with the relevant tax deduction 
certificate
2. Pay Mr S £100 for his distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman