DRN-3745461
The complaint
Miss C complains that The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd irresponsibly granted her a hire 
purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In February 2017, Miss C acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
TCFC. Miss C was required to make 22 monthly repayments of around £148. The total 
repayable under the agreement was around £3,253.
Miss C says that TCFC didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. TCFC didnt agree. It said that it carried 
out a thorough assessment which included a credit worthiness assessment consisting of a 
credit reference check and an income and expenditure assessment. It said the credit check 
showed all open accounts were up to date and that there was one active county court 
judgement from 2015. It said Miss C was unemployed and receiving benefits and it 
confirmed her income from her bank statements. It said Miss C provided information verbally 
about her outgoings. Based on this it said the agreement was affordable.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He noted Miss Cs credit 
commitments and thought TCFC ought to have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to 
Miss C.
TCFC didnt agree. It didnt agree with our investigators assessment of credit commitments 
totalling £2,700 and said Miss Cs credit report and regular payment commitments showed 
regular expenses of just over £650 a month. It noted the accounts with the collection 
agencies (totalling £784) and said two of the accounts were on performing repayment plans. 
It said the loan was relatively low value compared to the average of the time and this 
reflected the debt she had at the time. It agreed that an amount should have been included 
for gambling but said a contingency was always added. TCFC said that had Miss Cs credit 
commitments been as high as our investigator said she wouldnt have been able to maintain 
her repayments as she did. It noted that Miss C didnt raise a complaint about the 
affordability of the agreement until almost two years after it had been repaid.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before providing the agreement, TCFC gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Miss C about her ability to repay. TCFC carried out a credit 
check, asked Miss C about her income and expenditure and received bank 
statements which could be used to verify her income and expenses information. 
However, just because I thought TCFC carried out proportionate checks, it didnt 
automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, I thought about what the 
evidence and information showed.
The monthly income disclosed on the income and expenditure form was £1,871.43, 
and this was in line with the income shown on the bank statements.
The credit check results TCFC received showed Miss C had several home credit 
accounts, mail order accounts and hire purchase accounts, two credit card accounts, 
debt collector accounts and a utility account. Some of Miss Cs accounts were 
recorded as in arrears and others were over their agreed limits. I thought this should 
have raised concerns that Miss C was struggling financially.
Miss C provided information about her living expenses which totalled around £1,302 
which included around £654 of credit commitments. Our investigator noted that 
Miss C had over £2,700 of credit commitments. TCFC didnt agree with this. I looked 
in detail at the credit information TCFC received. This recorded regular payment 
information on many of the accounts. While some were recorded as monthly 
payments many were recorded as weekly payments. Calculating a monthly credit 
commitment amount from this information gave a total in excess of £3,000 - even 
higher than our investigator had noted. That said, I noted that many of the payment 
amounts recorded as weekly had balance figures shown for the months leading up to 
the report and these suggested the payment amount was for the month. Therefore, I 
recalculated the credit commitments as shown in the TCFC credit results having 
consideration to the amounts paid as suggested by the balances as well as the 
regular payments recorded. This gave credit commitments of around £830. I noted 
this number would likely underestimate the amounts due as when a consumer was in 
financial difficulty, they are likely to miss repayments and so the amount paid was 
likely to be less than the amounts due to be paid.
Miss C provided information about her living costs. Having looked at the amounts 
and considered the information in Miss Cs banks statements these amounts 
appeared reasonable. An amount was included for rent of £36 but I noted that Miss 
Cs bank statements showed her rent to be £450 in the months leading up to the 
agreement. This gave a total of around £1,070 for living costs. Adding the reduced 
amount calculated above for credit commitments gave total monthly costs of £1,900. 
This was higher than Miss Cs monthly income before the finance agreement was 
taken into account. 
Additional to the above costs, Miss C was spending regularly on gambling and this 
was clearly seen in the statements.
Given Miss Cs living costs and existing financial commitments were higher than the 
amount of income she received each month, I didnt find that the agreement should 
have been considered affordable. Added to this the adverse information recorded in 
Miss Cs credit report which suggested ongoing financial difficulties and her regular 
gambling I thought TCFC should have realised that providing further credit to Miss C 
wasnt responsible.
TCFC responded to my provisional decision. It said it had looked at Miss Cs credit 
commitments and calculated a figure of £757. It also said that Miss Cs rent was recorded as 
£36 as this was the net figure taking into account housing benefit that she received and 
hadnt been included in her income figure. It said that based on these figures the agreement 
was affordable for Miss C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TCFC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
As I have set out previously, I think the checks carried out before the agreement was 
provided were reasonable. However, just because I think TCFC carried out proportionate 
checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. 
Ive looked again at the evidence provided and taken into account TCFCs response to my 
provisional decision. I note that TCFC has come to a different amount for Miss Cs credit 
commitments. The difference appears to arise due to the assessment of which payments 
were weekly versus monthly and the amounts paid. I have looked again at the evidence and 
find that it is reasonable to consider some of the payments recorded as weekly to actually be 
monthly payments but I do not think it reasonable to reduce the amounts recorded below 
that amount. Having re-assessed the information in the TCFC credit results, I still find a 
reasonable amount for Miss Cs credit commitments is around £830 a month and I still feel 
this may underestimate the actual amount due based on the reasons I have previously set 
out.
I accept the approach taken by TCFC in regard to the rent. While the amounts recorded are 
£450 Miss C did receive a benefit that hadnt been included in the income figure and so 
offsetting this is reasonable and gives net rent of £36. I looked again at Miss Cs living 
expenses as recorded in her bank statements and including the rent at £36 (but before any 
entertainment costs), I found a figure of around £700 for items such food, utilities and 
insurance. This gives monthly expenses of around £1,530 against a monthly income of 
£1,871. 
The repayments on the agreement were for around £148 which would leave Miss C with less 
than £200 a month disposable income. While in certain circumstances this could be 
considered affordable, given the amount of credit commitments Miss C had, and that I 
consider the calculation of her repayments is likely to be higher than the £830 figure 
included, I think that this level of disposable income raises concerns that this agreement 
wouldnt be sustainably affordable.
Added to the issue above, given Miss Cs credit history, her clear reliance on credit based on 
the number of credit agreements she had in place, I do not think that TCFC should have 
considered providing additional credit to Miss C at this time as responsible.
Putting things right
As I dont think TCFC ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Miss C should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £1,995. Anything Miss C has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment.
To settle Miss Cs complaint TCFC should do the following:
Refund any payments Miss C has made in excess of £1,995 representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file regarding the 
agreement.*HM Revenue & Customs requires TCFC to take off tax from this interest. TCFC must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Miss C asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd 
should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman