DRN-2095025
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited failed to properly settle a 
third partys costs which led to a request for payment from Mr P directly from a Court. The 
costs were due under a claim made against Mr Ps commercial vehicle insurance policy.
All reference to Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
Mr P was involved in an incident with a third party in 2018 and his insurer Advantage settled 
the claim in November 2018.
In July 2019 Mr P contacted Advantage as he received a request for payment of some of the 
third party costs from a Court. Advantage discovered it had paid some of the costs to the 
third party directly, rather than their insurer.
In August 2019 Advantage settled the costs. It upheld Mr Ps complaint and apologised for 
its error. 
In October 2019 Mr P complained to Advantage as he wanted it to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Mr P said he had to contact the County Court and 
Advantage and it was a very stressful forty one days. He asked Advantage to compensate 
him at a rate of £50 a day, so £2,050.
Advantage referred to the final response letter it sent Mr P in August 2019. So Mr P asked 
us to look at his complaint. He said the threat of having a County Court Judgment (CCJ) 
caused him sleepless nights and hes unhappy Advantage didnt address his request for 
compensation. Mr P says if he hadnt acted, he would have received a CCJ against him.
Advantage reconsidered its position and told us it would offer Mr P £200 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator thought that Advantage had reasonably dealt with the Court Summons and 
informed Mr C of the discontinuance two weeks later. There were no consequences for Mr 
P, but for the upset and inconvenience caused, he thought Advantages offer of £200 
compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Mr P didnt agree. So hed like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that the Court Summons Mr P received was as a result of an error made by 
Advantage. When things go wrong, we look at the impact the error had and what an insurer 
did to put things right. 
Mr P contacted Advantage on 20 July 2019 to say hed received a Court Summons. He 
issued a defence two days later to the court. 
The third party insurer emailed Mr P on 6 August 2019 to confirm that Advantage had paid 
the costs in full and it had issued a discontinuance of the claim to the court. So I think 
Advantage promptly dealt with the Court Summons as the matter was settled within two 
weeks.
Ive no doubt that Mr P was caused distress and inconvenience by Advantages error. As he 
said, he had to contact Advantage and the Court. It was a stressful time waiting for the 
matter to be resolved. And I think Advantage should have offered Mr P compensation when 
it upheld his complaint in August 2019. 
When considering a fair compensation amount, we look at what happened, rather than what 
might have happened. I appreciate that Mr P was worried about the possibility of having a 
CCJ recorded against him. But fortunately this didnt happen. I think the compensation 
amount of £200 is fair and in line with awards we give in similar cases. So I dont think 
Advantage needs to pay any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr P £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman