DRN-3997250
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly declined his claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr M has explained that when he contacted a locksmith, he was initially told the price would 
be £50, plus VAT. However, when the locksmith arrived, Mr M was told the price would be 
higher, as the lock needed to be drilled. 
Mr M raised a section 75 claim with Lloyds, as he paid for the work using his Lloyds card. 
However, Lloyds declined the claim. Accordingly, Mr M brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. She noted that Mr M didnt dispute that the price was increased. He said 
he didnt agree to two items he was charged for, but our investigator noted these fell within 
the description on the locksmiths website.
Our investigator didnt feel there was sufficient evidence of either a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation, so didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly in declining Mr Ms section 75 
claim.
Mr M disagreed. In summary, he said:
he was charged more by the locksmith, on the basis that the lock needed to be 
drilled. He doesnt agree that it needed to be drilled, so he considers that the 
locksmith misrepresented this;
there were witnesses to what was said by the locksmith, and this testimony should 
bear weight;
as regards the disputed items the items listed on the website are irrelevant, as he 
hadnt had any need to look at the website when booking the locksmith. Rather, what 
was discussed when the locksmith came to the property is key.
The complaints now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to assure Mr M that Ive considered all of the submissions that have been made. 
Where I havent commented on a specific point, its not because I havent considered it, but 
because I dont think its key to reaching a fair outcome.
For a section 75 claim to be successful, there must have been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the merchant  in the case, the locksmith. Ive looked at the issue of 
misrepresentation here, as theres been no suggestion of a breach of contract.
A misrepresentation, for the purposes of section 75, is, in summary: 
(i) a false statement of material fact;
(ii) that the consumer has relied upon when entering into the contract.
Both of these factors must be there, for there to be a misrepresentation.
Ive looked first at whether the lock needed to be drilled. In so doing, Ive considered the 
testimony of Mr Ms witness, who has said it was only a basic lock. But Mr Ms witness isnt 
an expert, to my knowledge, so I dont find this compelling. Im aware that Mr M has said he 
didnt provide an expert report, as he wasnt asked for one. However, I consider a report 
would likely have been of limited value anyway, given that it would have to be based on 
assumptions about what the lock was.
Accordingly, Im not satisfied, on balance, that there was a misrepresentation about whether 
the lock needed to be drilled.
Ive also considered that Mr M says he was charged for two items he wasnt told about, and 
whether this could be a misrepresentation. The items in question are the call out fee and 
labour, which Mr M saw on the invoice the locksmith handed him  seemingly after hed 
already paid the bill. I accept that Mr M wouldnt have looked at the website. But call out and 
labour are standard charges. Almost every locksmith will charge these. So, I dont think Mr M 
would have refused to proceed, had he known hed be charged for them. Accordingly, this 
doesnt meet the criteria for a misrepresentation.
Im aware that the locksmith has agreed to refund the call out fee, but Mr M has explained he 
hasnt received it. Thats something hed need to raise directly with the locksmith, if he still 
hasnt received it.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman