DRN-4181410
Complaint
Mr N complains he was mis-sold an investment he made in a bond issued by Basset &
Gold Plc (B&G plc). Mr N says he was misled about the risk associated with the bond 
that he was told it was safe  and was also not given details of how the money he
invested would be used by B&G Plc. He would like to be compensated for the loss of
capital suffered by the investment.
Background
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr N invested in a B&G Plc 5 Year Fixed Monthly Income Bond. For a period of time, sales
of these bonds were dealt with by Basset Gold Ltd (BG Ltd), a separate business from
B&G Plc, the issuer of the bonds. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bonds.
And it was responsible for advertising and marketing the bonds. Potential investors were
also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bonds.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17
February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Basset Gold Finance Ltd (BGF)  an independently authorised business, which was not
connected to Gallium  took over from BG Ltd at some point in 2018. Gallium says this
happened before the appointed representative agreement between it and BG Ltd came to an
end and has made submissions on this point  albeit inconsistent ones. For the remainder of
this background section I have referred to BG Ltd as the business Mr N interacted with, but
the point of dispute is noted and I will consider in my findings whether Mr N actually dealt
with BGF instead.
Mr N and the investment in the bond
Mr N invested a total of £120,000 in the bond. This followed a number of phone discussions
between Mr N and a representative of BG Ltd which took place over a number of weeks,
during which different investment amounts and bonds were considered. The administrators
of BG Ltd have provided some recordings of these discussions, but a number are missing 
so I do not know the full detail of what was discussed.
BG Ltds records include a paper application form for a £50,000 investment in a High Yield 
Bond and a cheque for that amount, both dated 5 January 2018. And BG Ltds log of 
applications records the following:
Type Date Type Date
Advised Investor 2017-11-14 16:26:15 KYC Completed 2018-01-09 13:52:47
Self Certified Sophisticated Investor2018-01-10 09:52:59 B&G T&C Confirmed 2018-01-09 08:59:12
Completed Investor Questionnaire2017-11-14 16:27:36Investor Tags Legal TagsThe certificate for the bond Mr N actually invested in  the £120,000 in the B&G Plc 5 Year 
Fixed Monthly Income Bond  records the application date as 9 January 2018. 
When asked about his recollections of the application process Mr N told us:
I did not understand how to fill out online application form. I phoned [BG Ltd representative]
and she helped me to fill it in whilst I stayed on the phone to her. I explained I did not know
what type of investor I was as I was investing nearly all my capital. She said just tick either
the High Net Worth Investor box or the Sophisticated Investor box it does not really matter
as nothing is going to happen to your capital. I did not understand the difference between the
different investor categories and this was not explained to me.
For the 5 year bond 120k I can remember not understanding what sort of investor criteria I
fell under as I had never invested in anything other than a high street cash isa before. I can
remember there were 2 options 'Sophisticated' and 'High Net Worth.' I did not think I was any
of these as I was investing nearly all my capital to raise a regular monthly income as I was
not able to work due to mental health problems. I remember asking [BG Ltd representative]
in a phone call which investor criteria I fell under. I remember her saying to me 'It does not
matter [Mr N] nothing is going to happen or go wrong with your investment so just tick
anyone.' I had rang her to talk me through the online application process as I was having
problems understanding how to do it.
Mr N has told us he had no investment experience other than cash ISAs. The money he
invested was what he had left over, after downsizing his home. He has also told us he was
not working and suffered poor mental health.
On 8 January 2019, BGF (which by that point had taken on the role of BG Ltd), sent an email
to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that nearly all the
money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day lender,
called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration in
March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mr N has
not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
From the available evidence, it is not completely clear how Mr Ns application was made.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of BG Ltds online application process. These show
the online application journey that potential investors underwent. This consisted of two
stages, designed to meet the rules restricting who the bonds could be promoted to and on
how to test whether the investments were appropriate for the potential investor. The first was
certification. The second was the appropriateness test.
As mentioned, I have also seen a paper application form Mr N completed (albeit for an
investment that did not, ultimately, proceed).
Galliums response to Mr Ns complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Ns complaint. It said Mr N had been given sufficient information
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mr Ns
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also
considered what Gallium describes as its position statement, which sets out general
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators viewOne of our investigators considered Mr Ns complaint and concluded it should be upheld.
They said, in summary:
Its not clear what happened at the time. The information received from BG Ltds
administrators shows that Mr N selected advised investor. But Mr N has said he
didnt receive advice from any financial adviser.
They had thought about whether Mr N would have qualified as any of the categories
of investor type eligible to receive promotions of the bond. Mr N has confirmed that
he had invested almost all his savings in the bond. He had no previous investment
experience, having only ever held regular savings accounts and cash ISAs. And hed
never invested in a similar product in the past either.
So Mr N would not have met the requirements of any of the categories as set out in
COBS 4.7.9R or 10R.
The assessment of the appropriateness of the bonds for Mr N was misleading and
didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Had BG Ltds process met what was required under the rules and sufficiently asked
Mr N about his knowledge and experience then BG Ltd ought to have reasonably
concluded that Mr N did not have the necessary knowledge and experience to make
the bond an appropriate investment for him.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations.
Had it done so, Mr N wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr N to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively
and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mr
N for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:
It notes we make no adverse findings against Gallium as to whether Mr N satisfied
the criteria to be classed as an advised investor.
The appropriateness test answers and the confirmations Mr N gave were sufficient
for Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr N made the investments on the understanding they had risk associated with them 
and did not choose to surrender them when receiving the email in 2019 which
warned of the concentration risk. So he would have proceeded with the investments
regardless.
Gallium also made submissions on what it describes as the interim period. On this point
Gallium said, in summary:
BGF was authorised by the FCA on 2 January 2018 and began to promote the bondsto investors from that date. In particular, it understands that the website and
telephone line was the responsibility of BGF from that date.
At no point was BGF an appointed representative of Gallium, and Gallium had no
responsibility for the actions of BGF. Our investigator has not found that Mr N
actually spoke to anyone at B&G plc and BG Ltd for whose conduct Gallium had any
responsibility, or that Gallium actually approved the content of the website through
which Mr N invested and which contained the certification and appropriateness
questions which form the basis for the view. Rather, the available evidence suggests
that Mr N applied to invest through a website process approved by BGF.
Gallium also provided a witness statement from its former director, dated 16 February 2023,
which says:
He understands that the only regulated activities that continued to be carried out by
BG Ltd in the interim period, were that BG Ltd remained responsible for the making
of telephone calls with investors or prospective investors concerning their bond
investments.
It is his understanding that:
oSave in relation to telephone calls between Basset & Gold representatives
and investors/prospective investors in the bonds, during the interim period all
regulated activities relating to the financial promotions concerning the B&G
plc bonds, as well as activities concerning the arranging of bond investments,
were conducted by BGF
oBG Ltd continued to be responsible for the content of telephone calls between
Basset & Gold.
On 4 January 2018, he received an email from the owner of Basset & Gold, which
confirmed that Basset & Gold (he says this meant BGF) had been authorised by the
FCA. The owner requested a meeting to discuss the best way to transition the
regulatory business away from Gallium to the new firm.
He believes the meeting took place on 11 January 2018. No notes are available but
he recalls what was discussed.
I have asked  on another complaint  for various points of clarification on what is said in the
witness statement, and for contemporaneous evidence to support it. I have not received
a response to that request. However, for the reasons I have set out below, I think I can
proceed with this particular complaint without that further information.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision. I concluded the complaint should be upheld. As Ive
set my provisional findings out again below, I will not set out any further detail here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr N accepted my provisional decision. Gallium did not respond.
My findings
As neither party has made any further submissions following my provisional decision I have
not been persuaded to depart from it. I have therefore largely repeated my provisionalfindings as my final decision.
Given what Gallium says about the interim period  that it is not responsible for the act(s) 
this complaint relates to - I have first considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whether we can consider Mr Ns complaint. 
It is not clear how exactly Mr Ns application came about  whether it was done online, over 
the phone or through the post  or on what basis it proceeded. Ill consider this further later 
in this decision. But, for now, it is sufficient to say Mr Ns complaint is about the arrangement 
of his investment in the bond and the exchanges he had with the representative in the period 
up to the arrangement of the investment being concluded. In short Mr N says he was misled 
during those exchanges. 
Rule DISP 2.3.1R says we can;
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by 
a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, including advice, 
carried on by the firm in connection with them.
And the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which 
the firmhas accepted responsibility).
This guidance is drawn from the relevant legislation, which is paragraph 3 of s39 to the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMSA): 
the principal [here, Gallium] of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same 
extent as if she had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative 
in carrying on the business for which she has accepted responsibility.
So I need to consider whether Mr Ns complaint is about a regulated activity, carried on by 
an appointed representative of Gallium, for which Gallium accepted responsibility. 
Is Mr Ns complaint about a regulated activity? 
I am satisfied Mr Ns complaint relates to a regulated activity. The bond was a security or 
contractually based investment specified in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). At the time Mr N made his investment, the RAO 
said regulated activities include arranging deals in investments. Acts such as obtaining and 
assisting in the completion of an application form and sending it off, with the clients 
payment, to the investment issuer would come within the scope of Article 25(1), when the 
arrangements have the direct effect of bringing about the transaction. So I am satisfied the 
application process  whether it took place online, through the post or over the phone - falls 
within the scope of Article 25(1). It involved making arrangements for Mr N to invest in the 
bond, and had the direct effect of bringing about the transaction.
Was Gallium responsible for the acts the complaint is about? 
Under the appointed representative agreement in place between BG Ltd and Gallium, in 
relation to bonds, BG Ltd was allowed to carry out promoting activitieswhere the Company 
has approved the financial promotion. And Gallium allowed BG Ltd the right under its 
authorisation with the FCA to give advice in connection with advising, arranging, or dealing in investment products for present and prospective clients and in connection therewith to 
display, advertise, promote, . for the sole purpose of promoting the sale of the same. 
This agreement was in force during the period up to the date of investment  9 January 
2018. So, if BG Ltd carried out the arrangements, that is business for which Gallium 
accepted responsibility and the complaint can therefore be considered against it. 
I note Gallium, in its response to the view, says from 2 January 2018 BGF began to promote 
the bonds to investors and that the website and telephone line was the responsibility of BGF 
from that date. However  save for the witness statement, which is unclear on several points 
and in any event inconsistent with the position set out in response to the view  it has 
provided no evidence to support this point. 
I will turn to the witness statement shortly. The evidence available otherwise all shows it was 
BG Ltd  not BGF  which made the arrangements in this case. 
Mr N made a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), having been 
told by Gallium that BGF was responsible (BGF is in FSCS default). The FSCS rejected the 
claim, concluding Gallium was responsible. The FSCS referred to the following evidence, 
when reaching its conclusion: 
A letter to Mr N dated 15 November 2017 from B&G Plc advising that the application 
form should be sent to Basset & Gold Ltd at 6 Percy Street London WIT 1DQ, 
including a handwritten note on the letter stating the new address was 23 Finsbury 
Circus, London EC2M 7EA - BG Ltds registered addresses around that time. 
An email dated 26 December 2017 from BG Ltds Dedicated Relationship Manager 
(the representative Mr N dealt with throughout), promoting Fixed Income Bonds, with 
an email footer which confirms Basset Gold Ltd is an appointed representative of 
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority, reference number 487176.
An email dated 10 January 2018 from B&G Ltds Dedicated Relationship Manager for 
Basset Gold Limited acknowledging receipt of Mr Ns funds and confirming the bond 
subscription was complete. This email is from BG Ltd and the email footer states 
Basset Gold Ltd is an appointed representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
I have seen this evidence. And I share the view of the FSCS  it demonstrates BG Ltd was 
responsible, not BGF. I think the email dated 10 January 2018, in particular, is strong 
evidence BG Ltd  and therefore Gallium  is responsible for arranging the investment in the 
bond. 
I have also seen the paper application form completed by Mr N 5 January 2018 which, 
although for an investment which did not ultimately proceed, refers to B&G Plc throughout as 
an appointed representative of Gallium. 
Furthermore, the call recordings we have all refer to BG Ltd, and are with the representative 
who consistently described herself as a representative of BG Ltd. There are no references in 
any of the calls to BGF. 
Finally, I have not seen any communication from BG Ltd or BGF to Mr N to notify him of a 
change on 2 January 2018  and I would expect such a communication to have been issued, 
given Mr Ns interactions with BG Ltd were ongoing at that point. Gallium says the available evidence suggests that Mr N applied to invest through a website 
process approved by BGF. In my view it is not clear whether Mr N applied online at all  a 
point Ill return to later  but I have not seen any evidence of the type Gallium refers to. As I 
have set out, I have not seen any evidence specific to this investment which makes any 
reference to BGF- all references are to BG Ltd
The witness statement includes the following: 
On 4 January 2018, I received an email from [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset 
and Gold businesses], the ultimate owner and controller of Basset & Gold, which confirmed 
that Basset & Gold had been authorised by the FCA. I now know that it is BGF that was the 
entity authorised by the FCA, and that BGF had become FCA authorised on 2 January 2018. 
[name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] requested a meeting to 
discuss the best way to transition the regulatory business away from Gallium to the new 
firm. 
I met with [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] in the hotel 
he was staying in London the week following his email. I believe the meeting took place on 
11 January 2018 as [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses]s 
email of 4 January 2018 mentioned that he would be in London the following Thursday, 
which was the 11th. I recall that I made a note of what we discussed at the meeting, but so 
long after it took place I cannot now locate my notes. I do, however, recall what was 
discussed. 
At the meeting, [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] and I 
agreed that Gallium would cease monitoring and approving new financial promotions with 
immediate effect, because Basset & Gold now controlled its own regulated firm, BGF. 
[name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] also informed me that 
BGF would update the Basset & Gold website and online application form, to reflect that 
BGF was now responsible for the promotion of the bonds and arranging any investments 
made in the Bonds.
As mentioned, there are a number of things about the witness statement which are unclear, 
and we have not been provided with any evidence to support what it says. But, even I accept 
what the statement says as an accurate reflection of the position at the time (and, to be 
clear, given the available evidence otherwise, I do not) it does not in any event amount to 
evidence BGF was responsible for Mr Ns investment.
I say this because the witness statement says a meeting  to discuss a transition to BGF 
from Galliums appointed representatives  took place on 11 January. Galliums ex-director 
says his recollection of that meeting was that at the time of the meeting Gallium would no 
longer be responsible with immediate effect and BGF now being responsible. Which 
suggests, on Galliums ex-directors recollection, responsibility passed from Gallium to BGF 
on 11 January 2018. That is not evidence of BG Ltd and therefore Gallium not being 
responsible for arrangements which concluded on 9 January 2018.  
To be clear, I have not seen any evidence to show BGF took responsibility from 2 January 
2018, as Gallium response to the investigators view says, or that it had any involvement in 
Mr Ns investment. All the evidence I have seen supports a contrary position. 
All in all, I am satisfied Mr Ns complaint is about acts for which Gallium accepted 
responsibility. They are therefore acts of Gallium and can be considered in a complaint 
against it.The merits of Mr Ns complaint 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
The bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who they 
could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I 
have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached similar overall
conclusions to the investigator, for similar reasons. In summary:
There is limited evidence as to how Mr Ns application proceeded. It is not completely
clear how he came to be categorised as an advised investor or why he was
recorded as a self-certified sophisticated investor the day after his application was
made. Nor is it clear, given the contradictory evidence, whether an online application
was completed  either by Mr N independently or over the phone with BG Ltds
representative.
If the application proceeded on the basis of Mr N being an advised investor  and
there is in any event no evidence to show he received advice from an authorised
financial advisor  that was not a basis on which a direct offer promotion could be
made by BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf.
Ultimately, Mr N had to fall under one of the investor categories set out in COBS
4.7.9R and COBS 4.7.10R in order to be eligible to receive a direct offer promotion of
the bond.
Self-certified sophisticated investor is one of those categories. But, if the application
proceeded on that basis, Mr N did not meet the criteria set out in the relevant
statements for a self-certified sophisticated investor and, had Gallium taken
reasonable steps to check Mr N met the criteria  as, acting fairly and reasonably to
meet regulatory guidance, it should - it ought to have known this.
Mr N could not have fallen under any of the alternative categories either. So he did
not fall into any category eligible to receive a direct offer promotion of the bond.The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium  if such a test
was carried out - did not meet the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it
would have been apparent the bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr N.
Alternatively, if no appropriateness test was carried out by BG Ltd, there was no
basis on which the bond could have been promoted to Mr N.
Either way, in the circumstances, Mr N would not or could not have proceeded or,
acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the
bond to Mr N.
Overall, I am satisfied Mr N would either not have proceeded to make the investment
or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to
meet its regulatory obligations.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Ns complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr N would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mr N for his loss.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr N 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in the bond.
I take the view that Mr N would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr N's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr N fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr N's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay Mr N £750 for the distress caused. Mr Ns mental health has been made 
impacted by the stress and worry this has caused. He relied on the income from the 
bond in order to meet his expenses and being deprived of this income and unable to 
access his capital - which were almost the entirety of his savings  has caused him 
significant stress and anxiety. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameBenchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional interest
B&G Plc bond Average rate 
from fixed rate Date of Date of my final 8% simple per year from final 
decision to settlement (if not bonds investment decision settled within 28 days of the 
business receiving the 
complainant's acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr N agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr N that he repays to Gallium any amount he may 
receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, 
to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If any 
distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, they 
must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr N wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr N's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr N would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend that Gallium Fund 
Solutions Limited pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should
be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should 
pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £160,000 plus any 
interest on that amount as set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds
£160,000, I recommend that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited pays Mr N the balance plus
any interest on the balance as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
John Pattinson
Ombudsman