DRN-2977880
The complaint
Mr S complains Vanquis Bank Limited lent to him when it shouldnt have and didnt support 
him during a time of financial difficulties.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S applied for a Vanquis credit card account in February 2018. He was offered a £500 
credit limit initially, but over the next couple of years it was increased in increments, 
eventually reaching £3,000 in March 2020. Mr S says, in summary, he was happy with the 
account at first but by 2019 felt he owed too much on it, so he used savings, other credit 
cards and proceeds from the sale of belongings to reduce the balance. He says in 2020 he 
lost his job and unlike other creditors, Vanquis didnt help. He complains Vanquis shouldnt 
have increased his credit limit and should have done more to support him during a time of 
financial difficulties.
The investigator set out in detail the information Vanquis considered when making its initial 
lending decision, and each subsequent credit limit increase. I dont intend to cover that 
ground again in detail here. But in summary, Vanquis made its decisions based on the data 
available to it. Mr S declared his income as £16,500 a year when he applied. On each 
occasion Vanquis made a lending decision the data showed Mr S had low overall 
indebtedness, no payday loans and no recent adverse data on his credit file. For the credit 
limit increases the data also showed Mr S didnt utilise his full credit limits (suggesting he 
wasnt reliant on credit) and managed his account very well  he didnt miss payments and 
his payments were often much higher than the minimum required. 
Im satisfied Vanquis undertook reasonable and proportionate checks and by doing so 
satisfied itself that the initial decision to lend and subsequent increases, would be repayable 
by Mr S in a sustainable way. But in any case, if I were to consider some of the latter credit 
increases, such as the increase in August 2019 to £2,250, or in March 2020 to £3,000, to be 
unaffordable, it wouldnt make a material difference. This is because Mr S balance at no 
point exceeded the £1,750 credit limit set in February 2019.
Mr S has said he made higher than the necessary payments because of the high interest 
rate on his account. And he did so using his savings, other credit cards and proceeds from 
the sale of belongings. I accept what he says. But Vanquis wasnt to know what he was 
doing. And paying down a debt in this way isnt necessarily a sign of affordability issues, as 
Mr S suggests. It can also be considered good money management  why pay interest when 
it can be avoided.
I accept Mr S was struggling financially from April 2020 onwards and ultimately entered a 
payment plan with Vanquis. But in my view, this is the result of Mr S being out of work  a 
change in circumstances  rather than Vanquis providing unaffordable lending. 
Mr S says he lost his job during the pandemic and Vanquis should have done more to 
support him. I dont agree. Mr S didnt contact Vanquis to ask for support or explain his 
difficult financial circumstances. And he continued to make his minimum payments (and 
more) so Vanquis wasnt to know he needed support.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman