DRN-4000800
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the amount Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited paid in settlement of 
his motor insurance claim.
What happened
Mr P was involved in a car accident and made a claim on his car insurance policy. Admiral 
deemed the car a total loss and decided to settle the claim by paying its market value. It 
valued Mr Ps car at £21,950 but he thinks the valuation was too low.
Admiral thought its valuation was fair. It said it consulted two motor valuation guides and 
settled the claim by paying the higher of the two values it obtained. Mr P wasnt happy with 
this and brought his complaint to our service, he said he paid £27,000 for his car and doesnt 
think its possible to replace it with a similar one for the amount Admiral paid. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. After carrying out her own 
research using the valuation guides, she thought Admirals offer was fair. Mr P didnt accept 
our investigators opinion. As an agreement couldnt be reached, Ive been asked to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and for similar reasons. 
Ill explain why. 
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of the policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Mr Ps policy, Admiral must pay him the market value of the car, 
less his excess.
The policy defines the market value as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of the term 
market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on research from 
industry recognised motor trade guides.
Mr P says he bought his car for £27,000 and thinks the valuation of £21,950 is too low. While 
I appreciate his frustrations, I dont think Admiral need to pay him what he originally paid for 
the car. This is because, the policy terms only require it to pay the cars market value at the 
time of the loss. 
The valuation of a used car isnt an exact science and its standard practice for the industry 
to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a car. And I dont find it 
unreasonable that it does so, as the valuations the guides give are based on national 
research on likely selling prices of similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale at the 
time of loss. 
We dont tend to find adverts as reliable as the motor guides and the reason for this is 
because it is difficult to know what a car will eventually sell for from the advert; and 
advertised prices can vary widely  and variations, such as age and mileage, can 
significantly impact the eventual price a car is sold for. There may be occasions where we do 
look at adverts and this can be when we arent able to get a result from the guides, for 
example where the car is old or a rare model. I dont think this was the case here.
Admiral provided us with evidence of the valuations it obtained from the two guides it used, 
and these valued Mr Ps car at £21,440 and £21,950. Admirals valuation of £21,950 is the 
top end of the figures it obtained from the two guides it used.
Our investigator consulted a third guide, which produced a figure of £25,514. We usually 
think its fair to discount a valuation if it is significantly out of line with the other guides used. 
In this case, I find the figure obtained from the third guide is out of line with the two guides 
Admiral relied on. The guides also show examples of similar cars currently on sale and those 
which have sold and I found that many of those which have already sold ranged between 
£21,500 to £22,750, which is also lower than the third guide value of £25,514. So, I think its 
fair to exclude this from calculations. 
We normally consider an offer somewhere between the range of values (excluding any 
outliers) fair. As I mentioned above, Admirals valuation of £21,950 is the highest of the two 
guide values, so I think thats fair. I understand there was still an amount of money owing on 
Mr Ps finance agreement after Admiral paid the settlement figure, but I dont think it needs 
to pay this as its only required to pay the cars market value. 
I know this will be disappointing to Mr P, but Im satisfied Admiral carried out a fair valuation 
of his car. So, I wont ask it to do any more than it already has.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, Ive decided I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman