DRN-1008064
 
The complaint
Ms W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) alongside a credit card in 1996.
What happened
In July 1996, Ms W applied for a credit card. She applied for the card by post. At the same 
time, she bought a PPI policy. The cost of the PPI was charged to the account  so she'd 
repay this, with interest, in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Ms W thinks the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didn't think Ms W's complaint should be upheld.
Mrs W didn't agree. So the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I've taken this into account in deciding Ms W's case.
I don't think the policy was mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first thought about whether Ms W would have known she had a choice to buy the PPI. 
Barclays has sent me a copy of the application form. I see that to buy PPI Ms W needed to 
tick a box labelled "Yes, I want my Barclaycard account to be covered against 
unemployment, accident, sickness and death [...]". There was a separate box labelled "No, I 
do not require protection". The box labelled "Yes" is ticked. And the sale took place by post  
so without the involvement of anyone from Barclays. So I'm satisfied that Ms W would have 
known she had a choice to buy PPI, and that she chose to buy it.
As the sale took place by post, without anyone from Barclays present, I don't think Barclays 
advised Ms W to buy the PPI. This means Barclays didn't need to check the policy was right 
for Ms W  but it did have to give Ms W the information she'd need to work out for herself 
whether she wanted it.
 
 
It's possible that the information Barclays gave Ms W wasn't as clear as it should have been. 
But Ms W chose to buy the policy  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  Ms W 
doesn't appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover. And based on what I know of her circumstances, the policy looks like it would have been useful to 
her if she'd ever needed to claim. This policy would have paid 10% of the outstanding 
balance for up to 12 months if she'd claimed.
I'm mindful that although Ms W thinks she may have received some sick pay from her 
employer if she couldn't work, she can't now remember for how long. She also mentions 
other insurance she had  but says she can't remember the details. And while she says she 
had savings and a partner she could rely on, this policy meant she could have used her 
savings for other outgoings, and while I don't doubt that her partner would have tried to help 
if possible I don't think this help would always guaranteed to be available when Ms W 
needed it.
So I'm not satisfied that better information would have put Ms W off buying the policy.
I've taken into account Ms W's other comments. She says she thinks Barclays should have 
given her advice or guidance before she bought the policy  and that because it didn't this 
meant she got a lower level of service. But I don't think there was anything wrong with 
Barclays selling this policy by post  and I'm satisfied it was up to Ms W whether she wanted 
to buy it. So this doesn't change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I don't uphold Ms W's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman