DRN-1737745
 
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy because Santander UK Plc stopped paying interest on his current account 
without telling him.
What happened
Mr B holds a 123 current account with Santander. This account has a monthly fee but pays 
interest subject to certain conditions. These conditions include:
Paying in at least £500 every month
Having at least two active direct debits on the account.
In February 2020, Mr B realised that he hadnt been receiving interest on his account since 
October 2019. Mr B said Santander should have made him aware that interest was no 
longer accruing on the account. But because they didnt, Mr B contacted Santander to make 
a complaint.
Santander said Mr B hadnt been receiving interest on his account because he hadnt met 
the criteria for this since October 2019. Santander also say whilst they are able to alert 
customers of other aspects of their account by text message and email, they dont inform 
them in the event that they are missing out on interest.
Mr B is also unhappy with the way Santander dealt with his complaint about this  he says 
they didnt try to resolve his complaint and instead, closed it. Mr B would like Santander to 
pay him the interest owed from October 2019 and has also asked for compensation for the 
stress this has caused him.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs concerns. He said Santander had made the eligibility 
criteria clear in Mr Bs bank statements and that the accounts terms and conditions didnt 
say that Santander would contact customers to let them know they werent receiving interest. 
Our investigator also said when Mr B raised his complaint with Santander, they explained 
over the phone why he hadnt received interest on the account from October 2019.
Mr B disagreed. He said he was going through a difficult time and asked us to sympathise 
with this. Mr B also says there were two occasions in February 2020 when he visited a 
Santander branch  so they could have helped him to manage his account in order to 
receive the interest. So the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has told us about some of the difficult times hes been through which Im sorry to hear 
about and I do sympathise with. And I can understand why Mr B was disappointed to find out 
he hadnt been earning interest on his account from October 2019. 
Santander have provided us with a copy of the key facts document that is relevant to this 
account. In this document, it explains that you must pay at least £500 into your account 
every month and have at least two active direct debits in order to be eligible for cashback 
and interest on the account. 
Santander have also given us copies of some of Mr Bs statements from 2019 and 2020 
which appear to have been sent to his correct address. And I can see from October 2019 to 
January 2020, Mr B didnt pay £500 into the account.
The front page of the statements clearly explain the eligibility criteria for this account and 
confirms that to receive cashback and interest you must pay at least £500 a month and 
have a minimum of two active direct debits. 
As well as the eligibility criteria, there is a summary at the top of each statement which sets 
out if Mr B had earned any interest or cashback in any given month. This would have helped 
Mr B to see that there were a number of months where he had failed to earn any interest. 
So, Im satisfied that the requirement to pay £500 into the account each month was clear 
and that there were regular reminders in the bank statements of the requirements that 
needed to be met to earn interest.
Mr B says Santander should have contacted him to let him know that he wasnt receiving 
interest on his account. As far as I can see, Santander never said they would get in touch 
with Mr B in any month when interest wasnt earned. In any case, I think its Mr Bs 
responsibility to look at his statements and monitor his account to some extent, to ensure he 
still qualifies for the benefits. 
I note Mr B has said when he made a cash withdrawal in branch in January 2020, the branch 
staff didnt mention anything to him about his account not receiving interest. Mr B also says 
when he spoke to an advisor in February 2020, the only suggestion made was that he 
withdraw money and pay it back into the account each month which Mr B said was 
inconvenient for him. But as Ive explained above, I dont think Santander are obliged to 
proactively tell customers when they arent earning interest on their account. 
I understand Mr B is unhappy with the service he received from Santander in relation to his 
complaint. However, I havent seen anything to persuade me that Santander have done 
anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly.
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome but for the reasons set out above, I 
dont uphold this complaint. Overall, Im satisfied that Santander acted fairly in the way they 
applied interest to Mr Bs account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman