DRN-1663012
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the interest hes being asked to pay by Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC, 
trading as Hitachi Personal Finance, under his loan agreement with it. 
What happened
In May 2018 Mr S took out a loan with Hitachi Personal Finance to pay for new windows he 
was buying from a company who Ill call C. The loan was arranged by C. The loan 
repayments were due to start around 12 months after the windows were fitted. Mr S told us 
he thought he could pay the amount borrowed in full one year later and he wouldnt have to 
pay any interest.
 
But when Mr S called Hitachi in May 2019 to pay off the loan, he was very unhappy to be 
told the 12-month deadline to avoid paying interest had passed several days earlier. He said 
that, at the time, hed been ill while abroad. But this didnt change Hitachis position.
 
When Mr S complained, Hitachi didnt uphold it. In short, it said if Mr S had cleared the 
amount borrowed in full during the first 12 months of the agreement, he wouldnt have had to 
pay any interest  but as he hadnt done this, the interest accrued during the first 12 months 
had been correctly added to his loan.
 
Mr S wasnt happy with this. He brought his complaint to our service where it was looked into 
by one of our investigators. Mr S said he was told a number of times by C he didnt need to 
pay anything for a full year, but Hitachi repeatedly stated he should have repaid the loan 
within a year.
 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. In summary he said Hitachis 
loan agreement and other information it had sent to Mr S clearly set out what he needed to 
do if he didnt want to be charged interest on his loan. The investigator didnt think Hitachi 
had treated Mr S unfairly.
 
Mr S didnt agree with this. Briefly, he said he didnt believe Hitachi made reasonable 
attempts to remind him the deadline to pay off his loan was coming up. Mr S repeated that C 
had told him the loan agreement was buy now, pay one year later not buy now, pay within 
one year.
 
As this matter remains unresolved its been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. First, Im aware that Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the crux of the matter here: has Hitachi treated 
Mr S fairly and reasonably when it added accrued interest to his outstanding loan balance?
 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. I can see Mr S has made various arguments in support of his 
complaint. As above, Ive read and considered these in full. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
 
Mr S says he was told by C he didnt have to pay anything for a full year. I dont dispute that 
at all. But having looked at Hitachis records, Im satisfied this is what the loan agreement 
allowed Mr S to do.
 
I can see Mr S e-signed Hitachis credit agreement on 16 April 2018. The windows were 
fitted the following month. Mr S signed a satisfaction note stating the windows had been 
installed to his satisfaction. This was dated 21 May 2018. The following day Hitachi sent him 
a welcome pack clearly stating the start date for his repayments was one year later on 22 
May 2019.
 
The welcome pack also clearly set out that if Mr S paid the full amount of credit on or before 
22 May 2019, he wouldnt have to pay any interest, just a £29 administration charge. The 
credit agreement Mr S e-signed the previous month also set out he wouldnt have to pay any 
interest if he paid the amount of credit in full by the first payment date  he would only have 
to pay the £29 charge.
 
Im satisfied from the above that Hitachi did indeed give Mr S a full year to repay the loan in 
full without being charged any interest. He had from 22 May 2018 to 22 May 2019 to do this. 
This is clearly just over a full 12-month period and allowed Mr S to repay the loan after one 
year.
 
I can see Hitachis credit agreement stated it would send Mr S a reminder before the first 
payment date. The welcome pack also stated it would send him an email reminder before 
the end of the deferred payment period.
 
Ive looked at Hitachis records. These show a reminder was emailed to Mr S on 10 April 
2019  six weeks before his first payment was due. This clearly stated the first payment was 
due on 22 May 2019 and if Mr S wanted to settle his agreement interest free, he needed to 
do so by this date.
 
This reminder included a frequently asked questions page  as did Hitachis initial welcome 
pack. Once more, the frequently asked questions made it clear that as long as the full 
amount of credit was paid on or before the first payment date  that is 22 May 2019  then 
no interest would need to be paid, just the £29 administration charge.
 
Mr S doesnt dispute he received this email reminder. But he says it went straight into his 
spam folder along with hundreds of other emails  it was only after Hitachi told him about 
this email when he complained that he located it. That may well be the case, but this doesnt 
mean Hitachi did anything wrong or has treated him unfairly.
 
I know Mr S believes Hitachi didnt make reasonable attempts to remind him of the upcoming 
first payment date. I dont agree. It said it would send him a reminder, and the welcome pack 
stated this would be by email. Hitachi did exactly what it said it would do. 
I can also see Mr S got in touch with Hitachi a few days after 22 May 2019. He told us he 
was ill abroad when the first payment became due. I do empathise with the situation Mr S 
found himself in. But that doesnt mean Hitachi has treated him unfairly.
 In summary, Hitachis credit agreement and associated follow-up documents clearly set out 
how the agreement worked, gave him a full 12-month period where he didnt have to make a 
payment and, at the end of this period, allowed him to settle the loan in full without paying 
any interest. Hitachi also sent him a reminder as it said it would. 
Taken all the above into account, Im satisfied Hitachi has acted fairly and reasonably when 
it added the accrued interest to Mr Ss account balance as set out in the credit agreement 
terms and conditions. It follows that theres no basis for me to tell Hitachi to waive the 
interest. 
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020. 
John Miles
Ombudsman