DRN-3592948
The complaint
Mr H complains that Ageas Insurance Limited didnt communicate with him well after he 
made his claim, failing to make contact and terminating one call after a long period on hold.   
 
What happened
Mr H held a home insurance policy with Ageas for his contents. 
On 20 February 2022 Mr H made a claim on the policy after his property was flooded with 
sewage coming up from the shower.
On 21 February 2022 Mr H called Ageas to add some items to his claim, but he was on hold 
for 2 hours 15 minutes and when the call was answered he was cut off.  Mr H raised a 
complaint about this as he was upset because his house was flooded with sewage and was 
a health hazard, and he wanted to get it sorted out. 
Ageas arranged for replacement flooring for Mr H which was installed on 22 February 2022 
and they paid the full settlement for the remaining items on 25 February 2022. 
On 22 March 2022 Ageas responded to Mr Hs complaint. They said that they were 
experiencing longer than usual wait times due to the six consecutives storms in the recent 
months that had led to a higher number of claims. They partially upheld his complaint for the 
unintentional termination of the call and apologised for this. 
 
Mr H was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Hs complaint, and he thought that the apology 
offered by Ageas was sufficient. 
Mr H didnt agree with this, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all of Ageas claim notes and also the testimony of Mr H, but Im not upholding 
this complaint, and I will explain why.  
The claim notes show that Mr H reported the incident on 20 February, and that the claim was 
set up the same day. Contractors were appointed for the replacement flooring.
On 21 February Mr H called again and told the call handler that he had been on hold for 2 
hours previously and been cut off. The call handler apologised for this and explained they 
were having technical issues due to the weather. They discussed the additional items and 
Mr H was advised to send over links to replacement items. 
On 22 February Mr H sent over a list of items that had been damaged with replacement 
costs and the claims handler called him to discuss them. They explained that they wanted to 
appoint a loss adjuster for validation of the claim but Mr H then explained that the water 
authority had told him that the flooding was due to a blockage in a neighbours drain and so 
he was now looking to claim through the water authority for most of the items. The claims 
handler took details of the contact to liaise with regarding this.  Mr H confirmed that he still 
wanted to claim for the flooring, the headboard and some other items totalling £1202. 
The flooring was replaced by contractors on 22 February
On 25 February Mr H spoke to the claims handler again after another long period on hold. 
The claims handler confirmed that they had checked the photos and the links and were 
happy to make the settlement payment of £1202. A payment was raised that day.  
I am satisfied that the explanation and apology given to Mr H for the long telephone wait 
times and the accidental call termination is sufficient. I think that the claim was settled swiftly 
and properly in line with the terms of the policy, and that notwithstanding the call issues, the 
customer service was good,  and so I wont be asking Ageas to do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Ageas Insurance Limited. 
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman