DRN-3829233
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S are unhappy with AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds ongoing 
handling of a subsidence claim made under their home insurance policy.
All references to AA include its appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it here. 
Instead, Ill provide a summary of the present position as I see it below.
A previous ombudsman considered matters up to 25 November 2021. AA then 
issued a further final response letter on 23 February 2022 which Mr and Mrs S 
referred to our service.
My decision covers AAs handling of the claim from 25 November 2021, up to the 
date of its final response on 23 February 2022.
AA told Mr and Mrs S that their claim would be covered in full in November 2021. It 
subsequently investigated the damage and applied a policy exclusion for faulty 
design to the conservatory foundations. Mr and Mrs S were unhappy and complained 
to AA.
AA maintained its decision to turn down cover to the foundations. It made a 
settlement offer to cover the superstructure repairs to the conservatory and offered 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs S  for 
mismanaging their expectations and the time taken to reach its decision.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. 
They concluded that AA hadnt fairly relied on the policy exclusion because it couldnt 
be shown that building regulations (such as a minimum required depth) applied to the 
conservatory foundations at the time it was built.
The investigator concluded that they were satisfied the foundations broadly met the 
regulations in any event, and that the conservatory had stood the test of time. They 
recommended AA should accept the claim and include any necessary work to the 
foundations. And they recommended AA pay Mr and Mrs S a further £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs S accepted our investigators findings. AA disagreed. It said that as the 
main property hadnt moved at the same time as the conservatory, this showed the 
foundations werent designed adequately to prevent movement. And it said it was 
likely the movement in the conservatory had been occurring for some time before Mr 
and Mrs S noticed it. AA considered any work to stabilise the foundations would be 
considered betterment under the terms of the policy.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator, and Ill 
explain why below:
As AA has relied on an exclusion to turn down this part of the claim, its for AA to 
show that it fairly applies and that the foundations are insufficient or of faulty design.
Conservatories such as Mr and Mrs S have generally been exempt from building 
regulations. And Im satisfied this applies Mr and Mrs S conservatory based on when 
it was built around 2006. The conservatory is also exempt from any technical 
requirements which are attributed to a certain builder of new homes  who Ill refer to 
as N.
As the builder of the conservatory wasnt required to follow either building regulations 
or Ns standards, there wasnt a prescribed minimum depth for the foundations. 
However, our services approach is that the builder did have a duty to build a 
reasonable structure that was likely to stand the test of time, and which took into 
account relevant things like ground conditions and general good practice.
Here, the builder placed foundations to a depth of 300mm and the conservatory 
stood for around 14 years before Mr and Mrs S noticed the damage. Ive considered 
AAs comments regarding minimum foundation depths, and that the damage may 
have likely happened earlier. But Im more persuaded the period between the 
conservatory being built and showing subsidence lends weight to it being suitable at 
the time it was built.
Ive not seen any evidence to support AAs argument that the foundations of the 
conservatory shouldve been the same depth as the main property. The main 
property is a significantly larger and heavier structure, and it simply doesnt follow 
that a small, single-story conservatory would require the same depth of foundation.
I accept that this case is finely balanced. But based on everything Ive seen; Im not 
persuaded AA has fairly shown the policy exclusion applies. AA hasnt shown a 
minimum foundation depth fairly applies here. And I think that for AA to decline the 
claim fairly for faulty design it needed to show that either Mr and Mrs S knew there 
were underlying problems with the soil at the time and didnt take the conditions into 
account, or that the planning and design process was inherently defective. And from 
everything Ive seen Im not persuaded it has shown either of these things.
AA has said that any foundation stabilisation works would amount to betterment. But 
Ive not seen anything here that would be different to a standard subsidence claim. 
Ultimately, AA as the insurer is responsible for providing Mr and Mrs S with an 
effective and lasting repair to their structure in the event of a valid claim and should 
now do so.Ive considered the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs S during this 
period. And I can understand why being told their claim would be covered in full and 
then partially turned down wouldve been very upsetting for them. Having considered 
everything, I find our investigators recommendation of £400 compensation total to be 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, I require AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to:
Settle the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions and include any 
stabilisation work to the conservatory foundations to the scope of repairs.
Pay Mr and Mrs S a total of £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman