DRN-1773649
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to them alongside a mortgage. 
What happened
 Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt think Nationwide 
had made it clear to Mr and Mrs D that there was a 90-day deferral period in respect of the 
policy they bought. He didnt think Mr and Mrs D would have bought the PPI if Nationwide 
had made that term clear. 
Nationwide disagreed with that view. It said that Mr and Mrs D would have been given a 
product leaflet before the they made their decision about whether to accept the PPI. It 
argued that the 90-day deferral period would have been clear from reading that document. In 
any event, Nationwide stated that if Mr and Mrs D had run into difficulties repaying their 
mortgage pending a PPI claim, it would have arranged a payment concession. It said that Mr 
and Mrs D had been more than 90-days in arrears between 1990 and 1995 and no 
possession action had been taken during that time.
 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Nationwide is unable to say precisely when it sold PPI to Mr and Mrs D, which isnt 
surprising given how long ago the cover was sold. I wouldnt expect either party to keep 
detailed records for over 30 years. Nevertheless, I can see that it has treated the sale as 
being made in January 1990 and it invited Mr and Mrs D to provide it with further information 
if they disagreed with that date. The evidence does not suggest that either Mr and Mrs D or 
those representing them have taken issue with that point. So I have also treated the sale as 
being made at that time. 
Mr and Mrs D say the PPI was sold during a meeting between the parties. Nationwide could 
not say how the policy came to be sold. In any event, in whichever way the cover was sold, I 
think what Mr and Mrs D were told probably followed what was written in the PPI leaflet 
Nationwide referred to above. 
When it sold PPI, Nationwide had to make sure that it gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient and 
appropriate information to enable them to make an informed choice about whether the policy 
was a good fit for their needs. That would include drawing to their attention and highlighting 
the policys main provisions, limitations and exclusions in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Looking at this policy, I think the 90-day waiting period was an important limitation that 
should have been highlighted. Whilst I can see the waiting period mentioned in the leaflet, it 
wasnt given any prominence. And on that basis, I dont think the person selling the PPI 
would have highlighted that provision either. 
So the question for me now is whether Mr and Mrs D would have acted differently if 
Nationwide had highlighted that provision. 
I can see that the cover was set up to cover Mr D only. At the time, I understand he was self-
employed and working as a sole trader. The evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest that he 
would have had any sick pay if he became unwell. I further understand that Mr and Mrs D 
wouldnt have had any other way of making their mortgage repayments if Mr D was out of 
work. And I think thats supported by the further evidence Nationwide sent about their 
arrears. Putting all of this together, I dont think Mr and Mrs D would have thought the policy 
was good value for money because they would have run into difficulties paying their 
mortgage for that first 90 days. 
Nationwide says that it would have offered a payment concession if Mr and Mrs D fell behind 
with their mortgage during that 90 days. And as I said above, it referred to them being in 
arrears for longer than 90 days between 1990 and 1995. But Mr and Mrs D appear to have 
taken out the PPI before that, so they wouldnt necessarily have known what Nationwides 
approach in those circumstances. And I think the presence of existing arrears may have 
made them even more cautious about the 90-day waiting period. For example, if they 
already had some arrears and then had to wait 90 days before they could claim, they would 
have been very behind with their mortgage payments. 
With all of these things in mind, I dont think Mr and Mrs D would have bought PPI if 
Nationwide had made the 90-day waiting period clear. And so it will need to take action to 
put things right. 
Putting things right
 Nationwide must put Mr and Mrs D in the position they would be in now if they hadnt taken 
a PPI policy. It must:
 refund all the premiums paid towards the PPI policy, and
 pay 8% simple interest (15% before April 1993)* on these premiums, calculated from when 
each payment was made to when its refunded
If Mr and Mrs D made a claim on the policy, Nationwide can take the value of that claim off 
the compensation. 
*HMRC requires Nationwide to deduct tax from this interest. Nationwide must provide Mr 
and Mrs D with a certificate stating how much tax has been deducted if they request it. 
My final decision I uphold this complaint and require Nationwide Building Society to put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman