DRN-3808887
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited will only pay £100 per hour for their 
solicitors costs under their legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Fairmead, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint has been brought to us by a representative, but for ease of 
reading Ill refer only to Mrs P as this is her claim. 
What happened
Mrs P made a claim under her legal expenses insurance policy to pursue an employment 
dispute. Fairmead accepted the claim and agreed Mrs P could use her own solicitor, but it 
said the policy will only cover £100 per hour. 
Mrs P wasnt happy with this and raised a complaint. She said the policy term Fairmead 
relies on isnt included within the policy document shes been provided with at renewal.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she was satisfied Fairmead had applied the 
policy term correctly and fairly. But Mrs P didnt think our investigator had taken into account 
that she hadnt been provided with the policy term being applied. As she didnt agree, the 
complaint was passed to me and in November 2022 I issued the following provisional 
decision.
My provisional decision
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ps legal expenses insurance policy say:
If you choose a law firm as your appointed representative who is not a preferred law 
firm, the administrator will give your choice of law firm the opportunity to act on the 
same terms as a preferred law firm. However, if they refuse to act on this basis, the 
most we will pay is the amount we would have paid if they had agreed to the 
standard terms of appointment. The amount we will pay a law firm (where acting as 
the appointed representative) is currently £100 per hour. The amount may vary from 
time to time."
As the insurer that will be paying the legal costs, its reasonable for Fairmead to have a say 
in the amount being charged by the policyholders solicitor. So, the starting point is that this 
is what the policyholder can expect. 
Fairmead has given Mrs P the option to use a panel firm of solicitors who would deal with the 
claim under the standard terms of appointment. And Ive seen no evidence that this claim is 
too complex or unusual that it would need to be dealt with outside of the standard hourly 
rate. So Im satisfied Fairmead has applied the policy term correctly to Mrs Ps claim and that 
its decision was fair in the circumstances.
Insurers must provide information thats clear, fair, and not misleading. Where theres a 
significant limit on cover, such as an hourly rate lower than the amount the policyholder 
might pay their own solicitors, the insurer needs to make this clear; policyholders should 
know at the outset what cover theyre getting. Im satisfied the policy is clear that the rate 
Fairmead will normally pay is £100 per hour. 
Mrs P says she wasnt provided with a copy of the policy terms and conditions which set out 
the above limitation. Shes provided a screenshot of the customer portal which shows she 
only has the policy schedules. 
Ive provided Fairmead with a copy of this screenshot and asked for its comments. Fairmead 
says Mr and Mrs P wouldve been asked to log into the portal where all documents are 
available to download. The policy booklet, containing the policy terms and conditions, 
wouldve been within the attachments. On the top right of each copy of the policy schedules 
is a red paperclip symbol with a green drop down. Fairmead say that clicking on these would 
enable Mrs P to view the additional documentation sent. The policy booklet applicable to this 
claim would be attached to the 2019 policy renewal.
I dont have access to the customer portal, so I cant say with certainty what Mr and Mrs P 
are able to see. But I think its likely that if the full policy documentation wasnt being 
provided to all Fairmead customers on the portal, this breach wouldve been raised to it  
and possibly us  on a wider scale, and it hasnt. So without further evidence, I cant fairly 
say Mr and Mrs P havent been provided with the applicable policy booklet containing the 
policy term above.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs P, via their representatives, tell us that theyve now been able to access the 
policy documents by clicking on the red paperclip symbol on the top right-hand corner of the 
policy schedule.
But theyre still of the opinion that it isnt fair to apply the £100 hourly rate to their claim for 
the following reasons:
1. The exclusion isnt prominent enough
Mr and Mrs P say they, and their representatives, have been accessing the portal but 
no one noticed the red paperclip icon. In addition, its proximity to the green arrow 
icon meant that it was unclear they were two separate icons with different functions. 
2. The exclusion isnt relevant to the case
Mr and Mrs P say the policy term regarding the hourly rate is in the policy document 
for 2019, but not for the 2020 policy. As Mrs Ps claim relates to her resignation in 
October 2021 for actions which took place in 2020, they dont consider this policy 
term to apply. 
Fairmead accepted my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Whilst Ive thought about the points Mr and Mrs P have raised, I see no reason to deviate 
from my provisional decision. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment, so Ill explain 
why.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P and their representatives didnt notice the red paperclip, but I cant 
agree that it wasnt clear or prominent enough. A paperclip is a common symbol to indicate 
an attachment and Im satisfied, from the screenshot Ive seen, that it was clearly displayed. 
Furthermore, if Mr and Mrs P were having trouble locating their documents and they hadnt 
noticed the icons, Im satisfied they couldve contacted Fairmead to enquire about how to 
use the portal and where to find their documents.
From the chronology provided, the series of events which gave rise to Mrs Ps claim started 
in March 2020  which was in the 2019 period of cover. Therefore Im satisfied the 2019 
policy is the correct one to apply here. However, Fairmead has sent us a copy of the 2020 
policy document as well and I can see that it also limits the hourly rate to £100 (pages 6, 34 
and 35 of the document Ive been provided). If Mr and Mrs P believe Fairmead are applying 
the policy document for the wrong period of cover, this is something theyll need to raise with 
Fairmead directly in the first instance as this is a complaint that hasnt previously been 
raised.
As such, Im satisfied Fairmead has applied the policy terms correctly and fairly to Mrs Ps 
claim and it doesnt need to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman