DRN-4343507
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr P complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decline of their claim for surgery 
abroad and how it handled their medical treatment claim and repatriation arrangements 
under their travel insurance. My references to Aviva include its agents.
What happened
Mrs M and Mr P have travel insurance through a package bank account, Aviva is the insurer.
While on a family skiing trip abroad Mrs M injured her knee in an accident which happened 
on 15 March. Mrs M and Mr P wanted Aviva to cover her surgery abroad. Aviva didnt agree 
and said she could reasonably have surgery in the UK. Mrs M and Mr P complain about 
Avivas decision and about how Aviva handled the medical treatment claim and repatriation 
arrangements. In summary they said:
1. The doctor Mrs M saw abroad at the specialist clinic told them that for her injury 
surgery within three days of the injury was recommended to prevent further damage 
to the knee. Surgery after that time could delay and reduce recovery. The doctor 
suggested surgery happen on the next morning, 16 March, before inflammation 
occurred. Although the policy excluded treatment where it would be reasonable for 
Mrs M to return home it was impossible for her to return home for the operation in 
those time periods. So it would have been reasonable for Aviva to cover the surgery 
abroad. 
2. The definition of reasonable refers to normal. As the treating doctor said surgery 
within three days of Mrs Ms injury was normal procedure it was reasonable. 
3. The definition of emergency medical treatment used for insurance typically refers to 
medical care thats necessary due to an unforeseen illness, injury, or condition that 
requires immediate attention to prevent further harm or danger to the insured 
person's health. The treating doctor said that not completing the operation within 
three days would risk further damage to the knee which met the definition of 
emergency.
4. Avivas doctors failed to talk to Mrs Ms treating doctor to clarify the injury and 
urgency of treatment required. Although Aviva spoke to someone at the treating clinic 
it wasnt the treating doctor so Aviva made a decision without knowing all the facts. 
And although Aviva said on 15 March that it would talk to the treating doctor it didnt 
speak to a doctor at the clinic until after the opportunity for Mrs M to have surgery on 
16 March had passed which affected their opportunity to self fund the surgery. 
5. Aviva failed to arrange appropriate repatriation arrangements for Mrs Ms injury. To 
protect against DVT it was best for Mrs M to have three seats together to elevate her 
leg but Aviva didnt arrange that and they had to accept a business class seat which 
was an unnecessary health risk to Mrs M. 
6. Avivas poor communication caused a lot of stress and disturbance for the remainder 
of their trip.
7. The policy cover is mis-advertised. The policy is advertised with £10 million cover for 
emergency treatment but Aviva didnt provide that cover. 
Mrs M and Mr P would like:
Compensation from Aviva for refusing to cover Mrs Ms surgery and the potential 
harm to her health by not following the treating doctors recommendation for surgery 
and not repatriating Mrs M appropriately for her injury. They said the delay in surgery 
led to Mrs M having sick leave from work and could potentially affect her ability to do 
her job.
Compensation from Aviva for their distress and inconvenience caused by its poor 
communication. 
Aviva said:
The policy didnt cover medical treatment that could reasonably wait until a 
policyholder returned home. Its doctors have a lot of experience in ski injuries and 
Mrs Ms treating doctor wasnt available to speak to. It had spoken to a doctor at the 
same clinic who was referring to Mrs Ms medical notes as they talked and it was 
clear Mrs Ms surgery didnt have to be done before her return home. 
There was no unnecessary delay in it handling the claim and it had told Mrs M and 
Mr P early on in the claim that the surgery abroad wasnt covered by the policy terms. 
Aviva accepted its communication should have been better and offered £250 
compensation for Mrs M and Mr Ps distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator said Aviva had acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim for surgery 
abroad and in offering of £250 compensation for Mrs M and Mr Ps distress and 
inconvenience due to its service issues.
Mrs M and Mr P disagree and want an ombudmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M and Mr P say the policy is mis-advertised. If they consider they were mis-sold the 
policy thats a separate complaint and I understand they have made a separate complaint 
about the bank to which the policy is attached. This decision is about Avivas decline of the 
claim for surgery abroad and how it handled that claim and the familys repatriation. I wont 
be make any findings about whether or not the policy was mis-sold in this decision.
Ive considered all the points Mrs M and Mr P have made but I wont address all their points 
in my findings. Ill focus on the reasons why Ive made my decision and the key points which 
I think are relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
I think Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in declining and handling the claim for surgery 
abroad and in offering £250 compensation for Mrs M and Mr Ps distress and inconvenience 
due to its poor communication issues. Ill explain why.
The policy under the emergency medical and associated expenses section says:
If you are injuredwe will cover you, up to the limits shown on your policy schedule, 
for:- Emergency medical treatmentoutside of your home territory.
Overseas medical assistance is subject to the following special condition in the policy:
If you are injured or fall ill during your trip, our Medical Emergency Assistance 
provider may  arrange for you to return to the UK at any time. They will only do this 
if they and the treating doctor think that it is safe for you to be moved or returned to 
the UK.
The policy excludes under the What is not covered heading: 
Any claim for:
Any form of treatment that your treating doctor and our Medical Emergency 
Assistance provider think can reasonably wait until you return home.
I need to decide is whether Aviva reasonably considered that Mrs Ms surgery could wait 
until she returned home. 
This policy doesnt specifically define emergency treatment in the definition section of the 
policy. But given the above policy exclusion, emergency treatment for this policy is treatment 
which the treating doctor and Avivas medical team think cant reasonably wait until Mrs M 
returned home. That definition isnt unusual for a travel insurance policy.
Mrs M and Mr P said as the treating doctor told them that surgery within three days of the 
injury was the clinics normal procedure immediate surgery at the clinic was reasonable. 
Our service makes decisions on whats fair and reasonable in all the particular 
circumstances of the complaint taking into account, among other things, the relevant law, 
regulations and good practice. I think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to have taken into 
account all the medical evidence and circumstances it had when deciding whether surgery 
for Mrs Ms injury could reasonably wait until she returned home.
From the information in the medical report Avivas doctor decided Mrs M could reasonably 
return home for treatment, noting she was due to return a couple of days after her injury.
The doctor Mrs M had seen about her injury, who Ill refer to as the treating doctor, then 
wrote to Aviva that they:
Reject a late operation then important remanent structures are lost forever and 
patient runs the risk of additional damage to the internal structure of the knee, due to 
instability for weeks. Moreover meniscal suturing requires a stable knee joint. Early 
treatment of cruciate ligament tears is very important, as the treatment of additional 
menisci injuries through suturing can only then be successful.
Although the treating doctor doesnt specifically say her opinion was that surgery had to be 
done immediately, I think theres enough information in the letter to support Mrs M and 
Mr Ps evidence that the treating doctor recommended the surgery should be done 
immediately. 
Mrs M and Mr P strongly requested that Avivas doctor speak to the treating doctor as they 
didnt accept Avivas decision. Aviva sent the following email to the clinic:
From the medical information you have provided, there is no indication that surgery 
needs to happen straight away and can wait until the patient returns to the UK for 
treatment on the NHS.
Can you confirm why you have suggested surgery.Ive seen no evidence that Aviva received a written response to the query. Aviva then called 
the treating clinic. The treating doctor wasnt available until about three and a half hours 
later. So Aviva left a message asking for a call back to discuss the surgery and Avivas 
doctor spoke to another doctor at the clinic, who Ill refer to as Dr M. Ive listened to the call 
recording and I understand Mrs M and Mr P have listened too.
In the call Dr M confirmed he knew about Mrs Ms injury and situation. Avivas doctor asked 
him to clarify whether Mrs M had a locked knee that couldnt bend, Dr M said it wasnt but it 
was a complex rupture, which he detailed. Dr M said Mrs M wasnt an inpatient. 
When Avivas doctor told Dr M that Mrs Ms travel insurance only covered emergency 
surgery Dr M said:
There are definitely injuries that need operation, but you know, emergency and 
emergency are two topics. 
Avivas doctor told Dr M the policy would cover Mrs M to be returned home to enter the 
health sector in the UK unless he could advise Aviva there was an emergency. Dr M 
responded:
Its a rupture of the CL and rupture of menisci but .. she can still move it. I would lie if 
I would tell you that isthat it would be something different if the collateral ligament 
would be gone all the way as well. But if you ask me, is she able to travel home with 
that, then I have to say yes, and thats the way it is.
I think Avivas doctor fairly understood that Dr Ms opinion was Mrs Ms surgery could 
reasonably wait until she returned home.
Avivas doctor then summarised to Dr M that he would give notice to Avivas underwriters 
that there was no defined emergency to Mrs Ms knee presentation so under the policy terms 
there was no cover for her to have the surgery at the clinic. Dr M didnt dispute there was no 
emergency.
I understand Mrs M and Mr P would have preferred Avivas doctor to have spoken to the 
treating doctor but she wasnt available. I think it was reasonable for Aviva to speak to a 
different doctor at the clinic who confirmed he was aware of Mrs Ms injury and situation. 
Mrs M and Mr P have made various points about why Aviva should have disregarded Dr Ms 
opinion, which Ive considered. But although Dr M hadnt physically assessed Mrs M and 
wasnt the doctor recommending the operation, its clear from the call that Dr M was referring 
to Mrs Ms medical notes as he spoke to Avivas doctor. I think Aviva could reasonably 
understand that Dr M was qualified to give an opinion about whether surgery for the injury 
could wait until Mrs M returned home. 
Mrs M and Mr P have asked why Avivas doctor didnt ask Dr M various questions about why 
hed given his opinion. But I think Avivas doctor acted reasonably in just asking Dr M the key 
question - was there any reason why Mrs Ms injury should be treated as an emergency. 
Dr M said why he didnt think so.
Given the overall medical evidence I think Aviva fairly considered that Mrs Ms surgery could 
reasonably wait until she returned home. Under the policy terms that meant there was no 
cover for Mrs M to have the surgery at the clinic abroad.Mrs M and Mr P say they had to let the clinic know if the surgery could go ahead by 10am on 
16 March and Avivas delay in handling their claim meant they lost the opportunity to self 
fund the operation. Avivas case notes show Mr P notified it of the claim in the late afternoon 
of 15 March. Aviva received the medical report, made the decision not to cover and informed 
Mrs M and Mr P of that decision later that afternoon. Aviva did initially tell Mrs M and Mr P 
there was no need for its doctor to speak to the treating doctor but given their strong 
requests Aviva contacted the clinic in the morning of 16 March, tried but couldnt speak to 
the treating doctor and spoke to Dr M around 12.30pm. 
I think Avivas actions were within reasonable timescales in all the circumstances. And 
I dont think Mrs M and Mr P were disadvantaged as Aviva had told them on 15 March that it 
didnt agree to cover the surgery abroad. So Mrs M and Mr P knew Avivas decision about 
cover well before 10am on 16 March for them to take that into account when considering 
whether they would self fund the surgery.
Aviva accepts it should have given better service around some of the calls and that Mrs M 
and Mr P had to wait too long on hold. That was frustrating for Mrs M and Mr P at a very 
stressful time for them but those issues didnt affect the reasonable outcome of the claim.
As I think overall Aviva acted reasonably in its handling and decline of the claim for surgery 
abroad theres no basis on which I can fairly award compensation to Mrs M and Mr P in 
relation to those matters.
I think Aviva gave Mrs M and Mr P poor service around the arrangements for their and their 
childs repatriation. It would have been reasonable for Aviva to have started the repatriation 
arrangements earlier than it did. Mrs M and Mr P didnt receive notice from Aviva that Mrs M 
would need a fit to fly (FTF) certificate until the morning of their scheduled flight on 
18 March. Mrs M got a FTF certificate from the treating doctor, but the timescale was 
stressful and Aviva should have raised the need for a FTF certificate sooner. There was a lot 
of confusion about what flights Mrs M and Mr P should take, whether their scheduled flight 
airline would give medical clearance and whether it would have suitable seating 
arrangements for Mrs Ms injured leg. There were discussions about whether Aviva should 
book them a hotel if they couldnt get on a flight that day which Mrs M and Mr P 
understandably didnt want as they had family arrangements to return home to.
Ultimately Mrs M and Mr P resolved the flight home and seating arrangements for Mrs M 
themselves. I havent seen any medical evidnece that the seating arrangements Mrs M had 
on the return flight has caused a problem with her health but I appreciate she and Mr P were 
worried about the risk of DVT.
Mrs M and Mr P say that instead of enjoying the last four days of their trip they spent them 
stressed about medical treatment and travel arrangements. Unfortunately some of that 
stress and worry was inevitable given Mrs Ms injury and Avivas decision not to cover 
surgery, which as Ive said was reasonable. But Avivas poor communication caused Mrs M 
and Mr P unnecessary distress and inconvenience and I think its appropriate for Aviva to 
pay compensation. Im satisfied that the £250 compensation Aviva offered is a reasonable 
amount for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused due to its poor service.
Putting things right
Aviva should pay Mrs M and Mr P £250 compensation for their distress and inconvenience 
its poor service caused, which it had offered to do.My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £250 compensation to settle the 
complaint and I think the offer is fair in all the circumstances.
My decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mrs M and Mr P £250 compensation 
for their distress and inconvenience its poor service caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman