DRN-2004736
The complaint
Mrs A complains how Lloyds Bank PLC handled her chargeback claim for a purchase she 
made using her back account. 
What happened
In May 2019, Mrs A ordered a table and chairs dining set for £218.22. She purchased this on 
Amazon and paid using the debit card she has for her bank account with Lloyds. 
However, when the goods arrived the table had marks on it and the overall set appeared to 
be of insufficient quality. Because of this, Mrs A wanted a refund or replacement of all items, 
so she got in touch with the merchant who sold them to her. 
Because she hadnt received the response she was hoping for, she raised the dispute with 
Lloyds in September 2019. Lloyds set up a whats referred to as a chargeback claim. It 
asked Mrs A to provide proof that shed returned the item to the merchant as part of this 
process. And to help her, it said it would provide a temporary refund of the £218.22 until the 
outcome of the claim had been decided. 
There was a delay in Lloyds providing Mrs A with this temporary refund, as it said this would 
be paid in September 2019  but it didnt reach her account until the following month. Then, 
at the end of October 2019, Lloyds told Mrs A that the chargeback was unsuccessful. It said 
that it must follow certain regulations and it didnt decide whether the claim was upheld in her 
favour  instead Visa made that decision. Visa had determined the necessary delivery 
instructions had been made readily available to Mrs A, for her to arrange the return of the 
dining set to the merchant. Because Mrs A hadnt returned the goods, her claim to the 
money was turned down. So, in November 2019, Lloyds took the temporary refund back out 
of Mrs As account. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs A raised a complaint. She thought Lloyds had been unfair in taking 
the money back and argued that she had met the conditions for a successful claim. Also, 
she was unhappy with how Lloyds had handled the claim, including how it communicated 
with both her and her husband on the phone.
Lloyds maintained that it had done all it could do to help pursue the matter. However, it 
recognised that it had given conflicting information about when the temporary refund would 
credit Mrs As account  so it offered her a total of £62 compensation to reflect this. 
Mrs A remained unhappy, so she referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into it and thought Lloyds had acted fairly in relation to the chargeback, 
along with offering a reasonable amount of compensation in the circumstances.  
Mrs A does not agree. She submits that both the merchant and Amazon failed to provide her 
with delivery instructions, in order for her to make the return. Therefore, she thinks that 
Lloyds should pay her the £218.22 and increase its offer of compensation. 
Because Mrs A does not agree, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Lloyds initiated a chargeback, because this method is intended to help resolve consumer 
disputes with merchants. Its important to set out that the outcome of a chargeback claim is 
ultimately decided based on the card scheme rules, by the card scheme itself  which in this 
case is Visa. So, it was Visas decision whether to accept Mrs As request for her money 
back, not Lloyds. And, to determine whether certain conditions were met for this to take 
place, Visa expected Lloyds to obtain supporting information from Mrs A. 
Mrs A submits that Lloyds ought to reimburse her £218.22. However, our service doesnt 
have the authority to challenge how Visa runs its scheme. Rather, my powers are limited to 
the acts and omissions of Lloyds. Consequently, when deciding this complaint, Ive 
considered the fairness of Lloyds actions, to judge whether it did all that it reasonably could 
to help Mrs A pursue the matter. Therefore, in order for me to determine that the refund 
should be paid, Id need to be convinced that but for the actions or inactions of Lloyds   
Mrs A wouldve otherwise recovered these funds.
When Mrs A first made Lloyds aware of the problem she had with the merchant, it checked 
the nature of the dispute in conjunction with the possible chargeback reasons that Visa has 
in place. Accordingly, Lloyds asked Mrs A to provide evidence to support her claim that the 
dining set was not as described, and that shed tried to sort things out with the merchant. It 
did so because, in accordance with the scheme rules, it needed to be seen that Mrs A had 
attempted to first resolve the dispute with the merchant and return, or attempt to return, the 
dining set. So, it was important to ensure that the relevant evidence was collated in order to 
aid the chances of a successful claim.
Amongst other things, Mrs A presented information that showed shed be in touch with the 
merchant to request that it arrange collection of the dining set from her home address  but 
its response hadnt allowed this. As I see it, Lloyds was not unreasonable in taking this 
evidence and passing it to the card scheme, because the rules do stipulate that a 
chargeback can be made when the consumer has attempted to return the goods but was 
unable to do so. 
In response to the chargeback attempt, Lloyds was made aware that the merchant had 
defended the claim. Evidence was given that showed the process of arranging the collection 
of the dining set was made readily available to Mrs A, including the relevant returns policy 
being present on Amazons website. Moreover, a partial refund or a free replacement had 
been offered to her in July 2019, on the contingent that the original dining set she received 
was returned to the merchant first. 
For this reason, Visa decided that the merchant had successfully defended their entitlement 
to the payment. Lloyds communicated this back to Mrs A, explaining that it had been ruled 
that the returns policy in place hadnt been utilised, despite it being apparent that the 
merchant was willing to resolve the dispute. As such, the rationale behind Visas decision 
was reached based on the available evidence  not because of a failure by Lloyds when 
requesting or passing over information about the chargeback.In light of this, Im not satisfied that Lloyds led to Mrs A losing out on these funds by 
inadequately fulfilling its role in the chargeback attempt. Rather, I can see that Lloyds asked 
Mrs A for appropriate documents and copies of correspondence to support her position and 
duly sent this to Visa. It follows that I cannot safely conclude that Lloyds should be required 
to refund Mrs As £218.22 payment, because Im not persuaded that it caused her 
chargeback to be unsuccessful. 
Finally, Lloyds accepts that it gave conflicting information to Mrs A about when the 
temporary refund would credit her account. To put this right, it offered a total of £62 
compensation. Ive carefully considered how this and Lloyds overall communication 
impacted Mrs A.
In the circumstances, I recognise that Mrs A has been caused some inconvenience. Its my 
judgment that the award Lloyds has already put forward is a proportionate reflection of the 
impact caused. Because I find this amount to be fair and reasonable, I do not require Lloyds 
to do anything differently for the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
I understand that Lloyds Bank PLC has already offered Mrs A a total of £62 compensation, 
which I find fair and reasonable. 
So, Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mrs A this sum, if it hasnt already done so, within 28 days 
of receiving notice from us of her acceptance of this decision, failing which interest will start 
to accrue on this sum or on any unpaid proportion at the simple rate of 8% a year (less 
any tax properly deductible) until the date of payment.
Mrs A should note that if she accepts my decision and Lloyds offer, it will be legally
binding and she wouldnt be able to take further action over these matters. If, however, she
rejects the decision or doesnt reply on time, her legal rights will remain intact  but itll then 
be strictly a matter for Lloyds as to whether its offer remains open for acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman