DRN-3251193
The complaint
 Mr H is unhappy because Santander UK Plc has refused to repay money he lost to a builder 
who failed to complete the work for which Mr H had contracted and paid.
What happened
 The circumstances that led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, in 2019 Mr H contracted with a builder to 
remove his conservatory and build an extension. The work he says he paid for included 
obtaining plans from an architect, planning permission and other associated fees. However, 
Mr H says the builder didnt pass on all the money he gave him to pay for work undertaken 
by third parties. And, after demolishing his conservatory and moving some earth around, the 
builder left the site and has failed to return or refund the other money Mr H paid for materials 
and building work. 
Mr H sent nine faster payments to two accounts that were under the builders control:
Date Amount
14/06/2019 £0.07
14/06/2019 £1,275.00
17/06/2019 £500.00
26/06/2019 £775.00
26/07/2019 £275.00
25/10/2019 £0.21
25/10/2019 £9,169.93
05/11/2019 £2,000.00
07/11/2019 £300.00
Mr H raised a fraud claim with Santander when he realised the builder wasnt going to 
complete the extension. But the bank refused to reimburse him. It said it had sufficient fraud 
prevention measures in place, but Mr H failed to carry out sufficient checks before making 
the payments. Santander was unable to recover any of the money from the receiving bank. It 
subsequently told out investigator that Mr Hs claim was a civil dispute and so shouldnt be 
considered under the provisions of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the Code).
I issued a provisional decision last month setting out why I thought Santander should refund 
(with some interest) the four payments Mr H made between 25 October and 7 November 
2019. I said, in summary, the following.
When deciding whats fair and reasonable, I had taken into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I considered to have been good industry practice at the time. I also 
considered the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
Code), which Santander has committed to follow and was in force at the time Mr H made 
the payments to his builder. 
Under the Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is the 
victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam where (amongst other things) The 
Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were legitimate 
purposes but were in fact fraudulent. But the Code also says it doesnt apply to private civil 
disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or 
digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the Customer is 
otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
In order for me to conclude the payments Mr H made were covered by the Code, I needed to 
be satisfied he really had fallen victim to fraud and the builder was acting with the intent to 
defraud him at the point the payments were made. I didnt think there was enough evidence 
to say that was the builders intent at the point the June and July payments were made. But I 
thought the position had changed by October/November. I said this having taken into 
account a number of things, including:
Mr H received a quote from the builder, trading as H on 20 May 2019  £26,750 to 
supply all drawings, calculations and building regulations, remove existing conservatory 
and build the extension. At that time, the builder was a director of H which was a 
legitimately registered limited company incorporated in 2016 and appearing on 
Companies House. A first gazette notice for compulsory strike off was showing on 
12 March 2019, but this was discontinued the following day. Mr N has said his contact 
with the builder was prompted after he saw positive reviews about H on some websites 
and there was nothing on Companies House at that time which caused him any 
concerns.
In June 2019 Mr H exchanged emails with the builder about seeing some examples of 
the building work completed for other clients. Mr H says he subsequently saw two or 
three examples, was very impressed with the work and decided to use the builder, rather 
than any of the other building companies hed been looking into, to complete the work on 
his house.
The builder emailed Mr H on 14 June 2019, chasing him about getting plans drawn up  
he said Mr H needed to pay £2,550 to cover architect plans, planning and building 
regulations. Mr H said he ended up having to pay the architect himself, but hadnt been 
able to provide any evidence of this. He also showed he paid £542 to his local council on 
25 October 2019 and suggested this was linked to the building works, but the email 
receipt didnt say exactly what the payment was for. In any event Id seen evidence 
which indicated the planning permission application was made on 30 July 2019 and 
granted on 15 October 2019. And Trading Standards had confirmed it was the builder 
that submitted the application. I didnt think it was likely planning permission would have 
been granted if some fees hadnt been paid and/or the application hadnt included some 
architectural plans. 
The confirmation of works and phased payment plan the builder sent Mr H on 
25 October 2019 didnt mention removing the conservatory. Mr H didnt remember 
exactly when that happened, but the fact it wasnt mentioned in the 25 October 2019 
emails suggested that particular piece of work had already taken place by then. I couldnt 
be sure the builder truly intended on completing the work on Mr Hs house at this point. 
But, overall, it seemed more likely than not Mr H received some benefit in return for the 
£2,825.07 he paid between 14 June and 26 July 2019. Accordingly, I couldnt fairly 
instruct the bank to refund any of that money.Id seen little to suggest any further work was carried out in respect of the money Mr H 
paid from 25 October 2019 onwards. The email the builder sent on that date explained 
the due payment was to cover all groundworks and materials to site, windows and doors 
will be ordered within this payment as these will take 3/4 weeks to be complete to which 
we will be ready to install. Yet there was nothing which suggested that work had actually 
been completed  Mr Hs subsequent email to the builder indicated the opposite   and 
Trading Standards told us that:
The builder did not instruct a private building control inspector, as had been promised 
and allegedly paid for and approved by the local council. This was a fraudulent act 
and formed part of a court indictment being brought against the builder.
The builders merchant that the builder claimed to have paid to supply materials had 
confirmed that no such order was received. This was a fraudulent act and formed 
part of a court indictment being brought against the builder.
The court case against the builder concerns 22 offences and charges  both 
engaging in an unfair commercial practices (dating back to July 2017) and fraud 
(dating back to October 2017)  against numerous clients.
Overall I was satisfied the builder had no real intention to complete the work Mr H paid for 
from 25 October to 7 November 2019, a total of £11,470.14. I thought Mr H was subject to a 
fraudulent act and that part of his claim should be considered under the provision of the 
Code. So I went on to consider if Santander should refund that money.
Santander had said it gave Mr H warnings every time he made payments to the builder. But I 
didnt think the warning Santander had referred to met the Codes standards for firms. It 
wasnt specific to the scam Mr H was falling victim to. It didnt explain clearly the 
consequences of continuing with the payment. And it didnt give reasonable advice about 
what Mr H might have done to avoid the scam. 
But even if the warning had met all of the standards for firms, in the particular circumstances 
of this complaint, I didnt think it could, fairly and reasonably, be argued that Mr H ignored it 
or otherwise ought to have carried out additional checks before making the payments.
I said this because Mr H had already undertaken a number of checks  visiting other 
properties to check on the quality of Hs work, checking online reviews, meeting the 
company director in person and visiting the company showroom. 
I also questioned Mr H carefully about why he made all the payments to the builder despite 
there having been apparent problems with the architect and council being paid and the 
builder wrongly claiming that the foundations had been laid. Mr H explained he felt he still 
had a good relationship with the builder who always seemed very professional and friendly. 
And he hadnt seen anything negative or concerning when he first researched the company, 
in May 2019. He also took at face value the builders explanation that the payments in the 
later part of 2019 needed to be made to a different account in order to avoid paying VAT.
Overall, I was satisfied Mr H had a reasonable basis for believing what the builder was telling 
him and made the payments accordingly.
I said Santander ought to have reimbursed Mr Hs loss under the Code after being notified 
about the scam. And, because it didnt, it should also pay interest on that as I was satisfied Mr H has been deprived of the use of the money and had clear intentions to use it to pay for 
an extension on his house.
Mr H accepted my provisional findings, but Santander did not. They said, in summary, that 
Mr Hs claim should not be covered by the Code because it is a civil dispute with a builder 
who simply failed to provide the services that were paid for or were otherwise unsatisfactory. 
The builder was a legitimate, trading supplier whose business ran into financial problems. Its 
not appropriate to split a claim in the way I recommended  concluding that some payments 
form part of a civil dispute but others should be covered by the Code.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive thought carefully about what Santander has said in response to my provisional findings. 
But I still dont think its unfair or unreasonable to apply the provisions of the Code to the 
later four transactions. For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and summarised 
above, I still believe the evidence suggests the builder (acting for H, the other limited 
company of which he was a director or in his personal capacity) had no real intention to 
complete the work Mr H paid for between 25 October to 7 November 2019. I remain satisfied 
that its more likely than not Mr H was subject to a fraudulent act and this part of his claim 
should be considered under the provisions of the Code.
Santander didnt respond to what I said about the practical application of the Code  in 
respect of the warnings it ought to have given and Mr Hs basis for belief. So I see no reason 
to repeat, or deviate from, those provisional findings. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and instruct Santander UK Plc to pay 
Mr H:
£11,470.14 to compensate him for his loss resulting from the scam;
Interest on the £11,470.14 refund calculated at 8% simple per year (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date the claim was declined to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman