DRN-3858779
The complaint
Mr B complains he was given unsuitable advice to transfer accrued pension benefits from a 
previous employers Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) to a Section 32 pension plan with 
Norwich Union (now Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva)), as it hasnt performed in the 
way he was led to believe it would. And that he hasnt been able to take full benefits from it 
upon his selected retirement date
What happened
Mr B accrued deferred OPS benefits with a previous employer, which had a transfer value of 
around £18,634,62. And, in February 1989, Mr B transferred these to a Section 32 plan with 
Aviva.
In February 2018, Aviva wrote to Mr B explaining his retirement age was approaching and 
that his policy includes a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP). It said that while his GMP is 
payable from age 65, hell still receive a benefit from his selected retirement date (if earlier) 
even if the fund value doesnt cover the cost of meeting the GMP. And that this will increase 
annually until his GMP becomes payable at 65.
In June 2018, Aviva wrote to Mr B with a first payment date given as when he turned 61, that 
it said was guaranteed to increase yearly by 8.5% until he reached the state pension age of 
65, when the full GMP amount is payable.
In June 2019, Mr B complained to Aviva that, in summary, his plan was mis-sold as he was 
advised it would achieve more than the GMP and it has underperformed. He said regular 
bonuses have been withheld. And that Aviva hasnt provided the full GMP from his selected 
retirement age of 61 in line with the contract. He also said Aviva appointed financial advisers 
without his knowledge, and at his expense, to sell him the policy. 
In July 2019, Aviva responded to Mr Bs complaint that the full GMP should be payable from 
age 61. It said the policy defines the benefit payable from then as an amount re-valued up to 
his 65th birthday. And that as the remaining years of re-valuation hadnt yet occurred it cant 
quote the benefit taking those into account. Aviva said the information it sent Mr B in 2018 
illustrated the re-valued GMP to age 61 and said this would increase to his full GMP at age 
65. And, in March 2020, Aviva wrote to Mr B saying it isnt responsible for the advice he was 
given as records show he was sold his plan by an independent financial adviser (IFA). 
In April 2020, Mr B wrote to Aviva, saying, in summary, that he had no recollection of 
appointing an IFA. He said Aviva has misinterpreted clear documentation from the time 
which says his retirement age is 61, doesnt imply any phasing of the amount payable and 
supports that there would be a surplus above the GMP. 
In response, Aviva said the illustration was an indication of benefits at retirement that was 
based on rates common to all providers. It said investment conditions have changed 
considerably since, impacting performance, which meant it decided not to add a regular 
bonus since 2001. Aviva said that usually its only if funds are left after ensuring it can pay 
the GMP from when a customer turns 65 that it can pay benefits earlier. But in Mr Bs case, 
while his fund is insufficient to do this, both our Service and the Pensions Ombudsman have 
said the type of plan he has should be administered differently. So it has offered him a 
pension from his selected retirement age of 61, increasing yearly until reaching the full 
GMP at age 65.
In December 2021, unhappy with Avivas responses, Mr B brought his complaint to our 
Service. 
In February 2022, Aviva gave Mr B a further final response, saying the rates used in 1989 
were based on assumptions about future returns, considered reasonable and set by the then 
regulator. And that while interest rates, which annuity rates are closely linked to, were high 
when Mr Bs plan started, these fell and have remained low since 2009. So the cost of 
providing the GMP is now far greater and a larger sum is needed to pay for it. 
Aviva provided written consent for us to consider Mr Bs complaint if it has been brought to 
us outside our timescales. 
One of our Investigators didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said she cant hold Aviva 
responsible for any advice Mr B was given. And that the illustration was based on rates set 
by the regulator which, with the exception of the GMP, werent guaranteed. She said that as 
Mr B contracted out of the state earnings related pension scheme (SERPS)  a top up to the 
state pension built up by national insurance contributions and payable at state pension age  
contributions were diverted to his OPS instead. And this meant a GMP had to be paid by the 
OPS at state pension age, which Aviva took responsibility for, no matter how Mr Bs plan 
performed. She said GMP is defined in Mr Bs policy as increasing each year until his state 
pension age of 65 and that the illustration says what hell be paid at that point. She said 
Avivas only obliged to pay at least the GMP by Mr Bs 65th birthday. And that it has fairly 
offered to revalue this from when he turned 61 until the full GMP becomes payable.
Mr B didnt agree. He added, in summary, that weve chosen to believe Aviva didnt provide 
him with the advice when he recalls being told when he raised his complaint that it would 
have appointed someone at the time. Mr B said that at time he had several policies with 
Aviva, so its plausible it provided the pension advice. And that accepting Aviva made a 
commercial decision to stop paying regular bonuses flies in the face of consumer protection. 
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Mr B will be disappointed, Im not upholding his complaint for largely 
the same reasons as the Investigator. Ill explain why. 
I appreciate Mr B recalls being told by the adviser at the time of sale that his plan would 
achieve more than the GMP and that hes understandably disappointed it hasnt performed 
as anticipated. But theres nothing to suggest Aviva gave him advice. Instead, it has 
provided evidence showing the agent involved in the sale was an IFA. And this is supported 
by the retirement options pack which says commission will be paid to that IFA. In which 
case, I think its likely on balance that Avivas role in Mr B transferring his pension benefits 
was restricted to that of providing information. This means I cant hold it responsible for his 
complaint about the advice he was given. Mr B says the information provided by Aviva at the time also led him to expect more than the 
GMP. Hes said condition 7 of his policy schedule, set out more fully below, supports his 
understanding that his plan would achieve more than the GMP when it says so much of the 
capital sum as shall be appropriate. Given the words so much of I recognise this seems 
to have been written on the assumption there will be more than enough to provide the GMP. 
But at the time it was reasonably anticipated that the plan would perform well, for reasons Ill 
come on to. I dont think this wording guarantees though that Mr B will achieve an amount in 
surplus of the GMP. And I think its likely Mr B went ahead with the transfer based on advice 
he was given  which Ive explained I dont think Aviva is responsible for  and the 
information in the illustrations, rather than on this specific line in the policy schedule. 
The figures provided in Avivas illustration were examples and reasonably based on the 
higher, assumed and regulator approved growth rates used at the time. These were 
projections of potential benefits and investment returns werent guaranteed to produce a 
fund on maturity (or sooner) that would generate an income exceeding the GMP. I can see 
the illustration set out that it was only providing an indication of possible benefits that might 
be paid at retirement. And, in the way Aviva has explained, investment returns have over 
recent years failed to match those anticipated at the time Mr B transferred his benefits. Low 
interest rates and increases over recent years in the cost of purchasing annuities have also 
had an impact. And this isnt something I can fairly hold Aviva responsible for.
While I appreciate Mr B is unhappy Aviva hasnt added a regular bonus to his policy for 
several years, I can see that the technical specification from the time of sale says Future 
bonuses depend on future profits and cannot be guaranteed. This situation has also been 
typical across a number of providers of with-profits policies that started in the late 1980s or 
earlier for the above reasons. So I cant say Aviva has done anything wrong here. 
Turning to when the GMP is payable from, which I think is the main issue in dispute, Mr Bs 
OPS was a contracted-out arrangement. The rules for contracting-out of the SERPS 
required OPS to increase the GMP value between the contracting-out date and state 
pension age. And now the plan is with Aviva, it has to meet the GMP liability upon Mr Bs 
state pension age that arose from him contracting out, even if there are insufficient funds to 
do so. 
Most terms and conditions explain that a customer may not be able to retire earlier than 
state pension age if there arent sufficient funds in the plan to meet the GMP. However, in     
Mr Bs case, condition 7 of his policy schedule required Aviva at the benefit date  specified 
as when he turns 61  to apply so much of the capital sum as shall be appropriateusing 
the societys then current annuity rates to purchase an immediate pension payable to the 
insured which shall not be less than the guaranteed minimum pension
Aviva doesnt seem to dispute that condition 7 provides for a pension being immediately 
payable to Mr B at his earlier benefit date, regardless of whether or not theres sufficient 
funds to do so, given it has offered Mr B a pension revalued to age 61, along with yearly 
increases until he reaches state pension age of 65. 
I think the outstanding issue in that case is whether Mr B ought to receive the full, rather 
than the revalued, GMP from age 61. Mr B says the above condition supports that he should 
when it says the pension payable shall not be less than the GMP. But I think this needs to 
be borne in mind alongside the rest of the available information from the time, including that 
the GMP is defined in the policy schedule as:
£509.60 per annum increased by 8.5% compound for each complete year from 6 April 1987 
to the 6 April immediately preceding the attainment by the insured of the state pensionable 
age of 65 or the insured death whichever is earlier..As this definition sets out that the GMP payable will continue to increase until Mr B reaches 
state pension age of 65, I think it naturally follows that the full amount doesnt become 
payable to him until that point. And I think this is supported by the illustration provided to    
Mr B in 1989 as, while this also gave his retirement age as 61, it clearly says that At State 
Pension Age [my emphasis] the policy will provide at least before going on to specify the 
full GMP amount. 
The above policy definition does, however, provide a precise value for the GMP before      
Mr Bs state pension age given it specifies an amount, along with the yearly increases to be 
applied. Its this which I think Aviva shouldnt pay Mr B less than. In which case, I think Aviva 
has acted fairly by offering to pay Mr B a pension thats equal to the accrued GMP  
including relevant increases  revalued from age 61 up until he reaches state pension age of 
65, at which point the full GMP amount is payable. 
So, for the above reasons, Im not asking Aviva to do anything as I think it has acted fairly in 
the circumstances of Mr Bs particular complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman