DRN-3476575
The complaint
Mr N complains that Amtrust Europe Limited declined his claim made on his motor insurance 
Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) policy. 
What happened
Mr Ns car was stolen, and he made claims to his motor insurer and to Amtrust. His motor 
insurer settled his claim. But Amtrust decided that Mr N had been negligent and not locked 
his car. And so it said it declined his claim in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought there wasnt 
persuasive evidence that Mr N had left the car unlocked and so been negligent. He found it 
persuasive that the motor insurer paid Mr Ns claim and didnt change its decision after 
considering Amtrusts evidence. So he thought Amtrust should pay Mr Ns claim, with 
interest, and also pay him £200 compensation for the avoidable trouble and upset its 
decision had caused. 
Amtrust asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Amtrust declined Mr Ns claim because of a policy term:
4. WHAT IS NOT COVERED
4.2. Any total loss of whatsoever nature arising directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, due 
to any act or omission which is wilful, unlawful or negligent on your or the driver of the 
vehicle's part.
Amtrust also told us that it had other concerns about the claim. But I cant see that these 
concerns were investigated and so I think they are purely speculative. So Ill consider here 
whether Amtrust has reasonably established that Mr N was negligent in caring for his car 
and that this then made the car vulnerable to theft. 
The evidence that Amtrust relied on in saying this was from CCTV footage and expert 
assessment of the cars two keys. This found that one keys battery was flat, and the others 
was low. Amtrust thought this meant that the key may not have locked the car at the time of 
the theft. CCTV footage showed the thieves approaching the car and opening unlocked 
doors before driving it away. 
But I think there are some concerns about concluding from this that Mr N hadnt locked his 
car. Firstly, the key investigation was done three months after the theft. So its hard to know 
whether the ability of the keys to successfully lock the car would have changed in this time. 
The investigators key report doesnt comment on whether or not the car was locked at the 
time of the theft. It says that its unlikely that the live key would operate reliably. Also, the 
investigators key report says that its possible a device could have been used to stop Mr N 
locking his car or a device could have been used to steal the car. So Im not satisfied that the 
key investigation shows that the car was left unlocked. 
Amtrust later instructed another investigator to look into the matter. This investigator said he 
had contacted Mr Ns motor insurer, but it didnt think there was any evidence to suggest 
negligence or any issues with the claim. The motor insurer told the investigator that a device 
could have been used. The investigator said the car was unlocked before the theft, but not 
that Mr N had left the car unlocked. 
The CCTV evidence that Amtrust relied on starts just a few seconds before the actual theft. 
So there remains a possibility that the thieves could have unlocked the car before the film 
starts. Amtrust could have asked for CCTV footage recorded before the actual theft. But it 
didnt and this hasnt been kept. And I think its unfair to penalise Mr N for this now, eighteen 
months later. 
Mr N was abroad at the time of the theft and he told us that no one else had access to his 
cars keys in this time. He said the car was parked outside his house and family members 
would have noticed if the car had been unlocked as the wing mirrors wouldnt have been 
retracted. 
Because of these concerns, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Amtrust to decide that 
Mr N had left his car unlocked and that he had been negligent because of this. It follows that 
I think it was unfair and unreasonable for Amtrust to decline the claim for this reason. And I 
think it should now settle Mr Ns claim, with interest as Mr N has been without his money for 
some time. 
The delays in the claim have prevented Mr N from replacing his car. And he has been 
caused stress and upset by Amtrusts unfair decision. Our Investigator recommended that 
Amtrust should pay Mr N £200 compensation for this trouble and upset. I think thats fair and 
reasonable as this level of compensation is in keeping with our published guidance for the 
impact on Mr N. 
Putting things right
I require Amtrust Europe Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mr Ns GAP claim for the loss of his car, adding interest to this settlement at the rate 
of 8% simple per annum from the date of the decision to decline the claim to the date of 
payment.
2. Pay Mr N £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling 
of his claim.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Amtrust to take off tax from this interest. Amtrust must 
give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Amtrust Europe Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman