DRN-3177106
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained their claim was unfairly declined under their home insurance 
policy with UK Insurance Limited (UKI). Mr and Mrs M were represented by a third-party in 
this complaint, but for ease and simplicity, I will refer only to Mr and Mrs M. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had water damage at their property caused by a leak under the floor of a 
bedroom. The issue was fixed, and they made a claim to UKI under their home insurance 
policy for the rectification works. Mr and Mrs M said the claim for the water damage was 
agreed in part, but they said secondary damage was sustained with mould growing at the 
property.
Mr and Mrs M thought UKI ignored the issue of mould and said UKI didnt provide them with 
its report. Mr and Mrs M said they commissioned their own report by a third party specifically 
on the mould and they said the report provided conclusive evidence the mould was a result 
of the escape of water (EOW) insured event.
UKI rejected Mr and Mrs Ms claim for the secondary damage. UKI said there is no clear 
evidence that any mould issue is related to the escape of water peril and it said throughout 
the claim, we have considered all aspects of the presented claim where reasonable 
evidence has been presented. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She didnt think there was evidence of 
mould on the walls throughout the property or evidence linking mould to the insured EOW 
peril. Mr and Mrs M disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the report commissioned by Mr and Mrs M to understand what it said about 
the secondary damage that was claimed for. The report states visual secondary damages 
are evident in the form of mould contamination throughout the affected rooms due to time 
delays and extent of previously un-identified moisture.
I think the report is clear that mould is present in at least some parts of the house. UKI 
declined the claim as it didnt think there's anything in the report to suggest how the mould is 
linked to the EOW incident.
UKI said all parties agreed to reinstatement of the plaster to the wall in the bedroom in the 
immediate area of the leak, a course of injection drying was also agreed, and settlement was 
issued on this basis. At this point, there was no evidence of mould contamination and
we are satisfied settlement was in line with the policy's terms and conditions. Upon reviewing 
the report, we can see no connection between the escape of water and the mould
the report alleges to be present within the house. We also note that condensation is 
mentioned within the report and as you are no doubt aware this is not something generally 
caused by an insured peril and cannot be considered.
From reviewing the evidence, I can see the investigations at the time the claim was originally 
made and settled concluded the presence of mould specifically in the bedroom. UKI 
recommended this was treated promptly when the plaster was reinstated. So, if the 
recommendation was followed, I see no reason why the mould wouldve spread. There was 
no evidence of any other mould at the property when the claim was settled. Therefore, I find 
it difficult to see the leap in Mr and Mrs Ms third-party report, where the third-party has 
recommended that the entire house and contents needs to be treated and decontaminated.
Mr and Mrs M has made the point that mould doesn't have to be visible to pose an issue, 
and that UKI hasn't carried out any investigations into it. The settlement that was agreed, 
catered for the mould in the bedroom, which was the only mould evident at the time. So, I 
think UKI were fair by including this in the scope of the settlement.
I dont think Mr and Mrs M provided evidence that mould was evident in rooms other than the 
bedroom when they made their claim. And I don't think the report produced subsequently, 
from the third-party, clearly demonstrates that the mould initially identified has spread. I think 
its unlikely the mould wouldve spread from the bedroom if it was treated in line with UKIs 
recommendations. Therefore, as Ive not got the evidence the mould was linked to the EOW 
insured peril, Im not persuaded to uphold this claim. I think UKI has been fair in declining the 
claim as I dont think the evidence has clearly demonstrated what the cause of the mould 
outside of the bedroom was. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M also requested the fees for its the third party report for mould to be refunded, 
however, as UKI didnt ask them to commission the report in the first place, I dont think its 
reasonable to expect them to do this.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require UK Insurance Limited to do 
anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman