DRN-3671633
The complaint
Mrs S and the estate of Mr S have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-
sold the late Mr S Additions and Additions Plus packaged bank accounts in May 1996 and 
January 2006, respectively.
Mrs S and the estate of Mr S have given a number of reasons why they say the packaged 
accounts were mis-sold. These include that the late Mr S was a pensioner at the time and 
the accounts were completely inappropriate for him. They say that he didnt need or use any 
of the benefits that were included with the account and believes that Barclays took 
advantage of the late Mr S lack of knowledge and understanding of what he was agreeing 
to.
What happened
Barclays didnt think that the Additions account had been mis-sold, but it did think that the 
Additions Plus account had been mis-sold and so agreed to refund the additional amounts 
the late Mrs S had paid in account fees for the Additions Plus account. Barclays also agreed 
to pay the estate of Mr S 8% simple interest, less tax, on the portion of the fees that were 
refunded.
After Mrs S and the estate of Mr S had referred the complaint to our service, one of our 
adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the Additions account had 
been mis-sold. They also thought that Barclays offer regarding the Additions Plus was 
reasonable.
The estate of Mr S disagreed, so the matter was referred for a final decision. 
This decision will only address the two packaged accounts that the late Mr S held on his 
bank account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
think that the Additions account was mis-sold. I also think that Barclays offer was 
reasonable.
Additions account
The estate of Mr S believes that the Additions account was mis-sold, essentially because it 
says that Mr S had no need for the benefits that came with the account. However, whilst it 
may be the case that Mr S didnt have any particular need for the insurance benefits, based 
on what Barclays has told us about the account, in 1996 I understand the Additions account 
also included banking benefits that mayve been worth upgrading for on their own - 
regardless of whether the other benefits were needed or not.
To explain, in 1996 the Additions account cost £5 per month, and included a £100 interest 
free overdraft facility. Barclays also says that the account offered a lower rate of interest 
(compared to what was charged on standard fee-free accounts) on overdrawn balances 
above this amount  up to the agreed limit. I also understand that at the time, Barclays 
charged a £5 monthly overdraft usage fee on standard fee-free current accounts, whenever 
an account went overdrawn at any point in each month. However, I understand the £5 
monthly overdraft usage fee was not applied to the Additions account. This basically meant 
that when the Additions account was sold to the late Mr S, it would potentially work out 
cheaper for an account holder than a standard fee-free account, if they regularly used their 
overdraft.
The earliest statements that Barclays has been able to provide are from 1998. And these 
show that the late Mr S was regularly using his overdraft every month throughout 1998 and 
for a number of years after. Based on this information, I think its likely that the late Mr S was 
operating his account in a similar fashion, or at least made regular use of his overdraft, prior 
to 1998 too. 
So in the circumstances, I think its likely that the late Mr S agreed to the Additions account 
specifically because he was able to make regular use of the overdraft features that it 
provided, rather than because he had any particular need for the other benefits that it 
included. And given that it was sold as a package, the late Mr S was unable to pick and 
choose what it came with  which I think explains why he ended up with an account that 
included a number of other benefits that he may not have needed.
Given all of this, when deciding what I think was most likely to have happened, Im not able 
to say that the Additions account was mis-sold.
Additions Plus offer
In its response to the complaint, Barclays agreed to refund the difference between what Mr S 
did pay for the Additions Plus account, and what he wouldve paid had he continued with the 
Additions account between January 2006 and September 2007 i.e. when the account was 
downgraded to a fee-free account. 
The purpose of this offer is to put the late Mr S back into the position he wouldve been in, 
had the more expensive packaged account not been sold to him. As I think that the earlier 
Additions account had not been mis-sold, I think that Barclays offer is not unreasonable in 
the circumstances. This is because it essentially puts the late Mr S back into the position he 
wouldve been in had he continued to hold the Additions account up until he requested that 
his account be changed to being a fee-free account in September 2007.
In addition to the partial refund of account fees, Barclays has also agreed to pay the estate 
of Mr S 8% simple interest, less tax on the portion of those fees that are to be refunded. This 
is calculated from the date each fee was taken from the late Mr S account, to the date of 
settlement. As this interest calculation is in line with what our service wouldve 
recommended, had we looked into the sale and concluded that itd been mis-sold, I think that 
Barclays offer is reasonable.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that the Additions account was mis-sold. 
And I think that Barclays Bank UK PLCs offer to refund the difference between the monthly 
Additions account fee and the monthly Additions Plus account fees, between January 2006 
and September 2007, and pay 8% simple interest on those fees, less tax, is fair and 
reasonable redress in the circumstances of this complaint. I therefore dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything more, than what it has 
already agreed to do, to put matters right in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and the 
estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman