DRN-1478497
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) was 
irresponsible in its lending to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about the six instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr K between February 
and July 2019. His borrowing history is set out below.
Loan Amount Instalments Date Repaid
1 400 6 05/01/2019 30/01/2019
2 400 6 11/02/2019 26/02/2019
3 300 6 12/03/2019 26/07/2019
4 150 6 27/04/2019 29/08/2019
5 100 6 01/06/2019 29/08/2019
6 200 6 27/07/2019 29/08/2019
 
Mr K said that Sunny provided him with multiple loans and that its lending was irresponsible. 
He said that he had to borrow more to make his repayments and the high interest rates left 
him in financial difficulties.
Sunny said that before all loans were provided, robust and proportionate affordability and 
credit checks took place. It said that based on its checks the loans were affordable for Mr K.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint in regard to loan 6.
Sunny didnt accept our adjudicators view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr K could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and the 
consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold loans 1 to 5. As neither party has disputed this I havent 
considered these loans any further. I have however included them in my overall assessment 
of Sunnys lending to Mr K.
Loan 6 was taken out on the day after Mr K repaid loan 3 and while loans 4 and 5 were still 
outstanding. At the time of the loan, Mr Ks recorded income had reduced to £2,100 from the 
previous £2,250 recorded for most of the previous loans. His disposable income was 
recorded as around £1,000. The combined monthly repayments due on loans 4,5 and 6 was 
around £150 and so on a pounds and pence calculation loan 6 appeared affordable.
However, Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr K, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.
 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ks case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because of the following:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr K was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr K had taken out six loans within six months  the last few loans had overlapped with existing loans, and loan 6 was taken out the day after loan 3 was 
repaid. I think at this point Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not 
Mr K was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his finances.
 
Mr K did repay his loans early, but he then took out new loans shortly after. So I dont 
find that the early repayments suggested he was managing his money but instead 
find it more likely that he was in a cycle of taking out new borrowing to cover the 
costs of repaying existing borrowing.
 
While the first two loans were for £400 and the later loans were for lower amounts, 
the later loans were taken out concurrently, so Mr Ks total level of indebtedness 
wasnt reducing. This suggests that he was not borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need.
 
I think that providing loan 6 unfairly prolonged Mr Ks indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
The number of loans Mr K borrowed was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ks 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding the complaint in regard to loan 6. 
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr K paid on loan 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement*;
the overall pattern of Mr Ks borrowing at loan 6 means any information recorded 
about it is adverse, so this loan should be removed entirely from Mr Ks credit file. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ks complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mr K compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman