DRN-3213169
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt settled a cancellation claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with their building 
society.
In January 2021, Mr and Mrs G booked a camping holiday to a country Ill call F. They paid a 
deposit of €161 to the campsite provider. They were due to travel between 28 June and 5 
July 2020. 
However, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised UK nationals against all but essential 
travel abroad. These restrictions remained in place on the planned date of Mr and Mrs Gs 
departure. On this basis, Mr and Mrs Gs trip was cancelled.
The campsite initially offered Mr and Mrs G a credit voucher for the full value of their deposit, 
which could be used up until 9 September 2021. As Mr and Mrs G wanted cash 
reimbursement of the deposit, they made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
UKI turned down Mr and Mrs Gs claim. It said that the policy only covered financial losses a 
policyholders suffered. As the campsite had offered Mr and Mrs G a credit voucher for the 
full value of their deposit, UKI said they hadnt suffered a financial loss. It said the policy 
terms specifically excluded losses which could recovered from elsewhere. It did 
acknowledge that it had wrongly indicated to Mr and Mrs G that it would settle the claim 
though, so it paid them £50 compensation.
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with UKIs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
While the complaint was with us, the campsite offered to extend the vouchers expiry date 
until September 2022. Having reviewed the new terms of the credit voucher, UKI maintained 
its position. 
Our investigator thought UKI had treated Mr and Mrs G fairly. He thought the evidence 
showed that the campsite had offered Mr and Mrs G a voucher for the full amount of their 
deposit payment. And he noted the extension of the vouchers validity. So he didnt think the 
terms of it were overly restrictive and he felt it was fair for UKI to conclude that Mr and Mrs G 
had recovered their loss.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed and Ive summarised their responses to the investigator. They didnt 
think it was logical to conclude that a voucher represented recovery, given the individual and 
circumstantial practicalities of using vouchers. They referred to ongoing travel restrictions 
between the UK and F and queried whether travel would be possible. Given changes to 
travel prices and requirements, they were concerned that using the voucher would lead to 
them incurring further financial costs. The familys circumstances had changed, as had the 
holiday itself. They felt the likely use of vouchers should be taken into account when 
deciding whether or not thered been a financial loss. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, I think it was fair for UKI to turn 
down their claim and Ill explain why. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about, amongst other 
things, the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs policy and the circumstances of their 
claim to decide whether UKI handled it fairly. 
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs Gs contract with 
UKI. The cancellation section of the policy sets out the insured events it covers for unused 
costs a policyholder incurs if they need to cancel their trip. One of these insured events is 
the FCDO advising against all but essential travel to a policyholders pre-booked destination. 
In this case, theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Gs holiday was cancelled as a result of the 
FCDO advising against all but essential travel on 17 March 2020. So I can understand why 
Mr and Mrs G feel that UKI should pay their claim for their unused deposit. But the 
cancellation section of the policy also includes a list of things that UKI doesnt cover. One of 
these states that UKI wont pay for any expenses that a policyholder can recover from 
elsewhere. 
UKI says that as the campsite offered Mr and Mrs G a credit voucher for the full value of 
their deposit; they havent suffered a financial loss for this booking which is covered by the 
policy. And I think the policy wording makes it clear that UKI doesnt cover costs which can 
be recovered or got back from elsewhere. 
Ive next considered the terms of the campsites credit voucher. Ive seen a copies of email 
correspondence from the campsite. The first email, dated 18 July 2020, offered Mr and Mrs 
G the chance to postpone their booking and hold their deposit for a future booking, up until 9 
September 2021. At the time Mr and Mrs G made their claim, this expiry date was some 
months in the future. So I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that Mr and Mrs G hadnt 
suffered a financial loss for this booking at that point, because the credit voucher would 
cover the full value of their deposit. 
UKI later let us know, following the expiry of the original voucher, that it might look to deal 
with the claim. However, the campsite had offered to extend its credit voucher until 
September 2022. On this basis, UKI maintained that the terms of the voucher werent 
restrictive and that it considered Mr and Mrs G had recovered their financial loss.
Ive thought carefully about this, taking into account the concerns that Mr and Mrs G have 
raised regarding potential future travel restrictions, increased costs and changes to their 
circumstances. But I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to conclude that Mr and Mrs G would most likely be in a position to use the credit voucher in the future. And in my view, the 
terms of the credit voucher arent overly restrictive. Mr and Mrs G dont appear to be limited 
to booking within a particular week during the year, or at a specific time. 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs G would prefer to get a cash refund for their booking with 
the campsite, given that travel plans currently remain uncertain. But I dont find it was unfair 
for UKI to conclude that Mr and Mrs G havent suffered a financial loss for this booking.
Mr and Mrs G have queried whether they will find themselves in the same position in 
September 2022. If, at this time, Mr and Mrs G havent made use of the voucher and are 
able to obtain confirmation from the campsite that its neither offering a further extension to 
the credit voucher nor a cash refund of their booking costs, its open to them to send this 
information to UKI to consider. It would be for UKI to then assess the claim further in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy.
But, as Ive set out above, on the evidence before me, I think it was fair and reasonable for 
UKI to conclude that Mr and Mrs G havent demonstrated theyve suffered a financial loss for 
their campsite booking.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman