DRN-3234471
The complaint
Miss M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to close her Help to 
Buy ISA correctly which led to a delay in receiving the funds to purchase a property.
What happened
On 30 April 2021, Miss M contacted NatWest to close her Help to Buy ISA. Shed had an 
offer accepted on a property, so she needed to withdraw the funds and obtain a closure 
statement in order to claim the government bonus. 
NatWest proceeded to give Miss M incorrect advice on multiple occasions over a period of 
12 days, details of which are as follows: 
Miss M was initially told shed need to open a new ISA with NatWest so the money 
could be transferred into it, and that shed have to do this on the app.
She was then told she could transfer the funds to her existing bank account, and 
shed need to complete a form. She later found out shed been sent the wrong form.
She was told to speak to the Help to Buy team but when she called back during their 
working hours, she was told there wasnt a help to Buy team.
She was told the closing statement would be sent to her solicitor, but NatWest didnt 
have details of her solicitor so this wouldnt have been possible.
Miss Ms solicitor needed the funds by 11 May 2021 to proceed with the purchase of the 
property on 14 May 2021, so she had to borrow money from relatives to ensure she didnt 
lose the property. 
On 11 May 2021, Miss M approached her own bank to resolve the issue. They contacted 
NatWest immediately and within two hours had managed to transfer the funds out of the ISA 
and get the account closed. Miss M was able to pick up the closure statement from her bank 
the following day.
Miss M says the incorrect and conflicting information caused her a great deal of stress and 
anxiety. Shed made multiple phone calls and taken annual leave from work in order to visit 
her bank. Shed been caused embarrassment by having to borrow money. And shed been 
put at risk of losing the government bonus that shed saved up for. Because of this, Miss M 
raised a complaint.
NatWest says Miss M shouldve been asked to fill in a form in branch with details of the 
beneficiary account. This should take up to five working days to process and once closed, a 
further five working days are required to send the closure statement by post. 
NatWest acknowledges that Miss M wasnt given the details of the correct process and 
instead was given wrong and conflicting information on several calls. It upheld her complaint 
and apologised for what went wrong. To put things right, NatWest has paid £350 
compensation as well as £40.50 towards petrol costs incurred when visiting a branch. 
Miss M doesnt feel this amount fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused. She brought her complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. He 
was satisfied NatWest had fairly compensated Miss M for what went wrong, and he didnt 
think it needed to do anything more. 
As Miss M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that NatWest made errors when handling Miss Ms request to close her 
ISA. It acknowledges that it gave incorrect information on its processes and that the account 
was in a failed closure stage from 30 April 2021 until 11 May 2021. So I dont need to make 
a finding on whether NatWest has done something wrong  it has. What I need to decide is 
whether NatWest has done enough to put things right. 
Our service can make awards of compensation where we see that a business has done 
something wrong or unfair. But when we do so, it isnt intended to punish or fine the 
business for what it did wrong. Its recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to 
the customer, and it should be a proportionate reflection of the impact the businesss actions 
have had.
Im aware that NatWest has made multiple errors throughout this process. But Id like to be 
clear that our service doesnt award compensation for each individual mistake. Instead, we 
take a holistic view of everything thats happened and make an award based on the overall 
impact.
Based on what Ive seen, Im in no doubt that NatWests actions caused Miss M 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. There are clear failings in the customer service 
provided, which came at a time when Miss M was undergoing an already stressful process 
of purchasing a property. Miss M has had to make several calls and visits to both NatWest 
and her own bank to get this matter resolved, which couldve been avoided had she been 
told the correct information at the outset. 
That said, NatWest has provided details of what shouldve happened. And from what Ive 
seen, the correct procedure wouldve taken up to ten working days to complete (five days to 
close the account and another five days for the closure statement). In Miss Ms case, this 
matter took 12 days to resolve (which was eight working days from start to finish). 
So I think any delays in closing the account were minimal and only a matter of a few days. 
And I cant fairly say that there were any delays in receiving the closure statement as this 
was provided within the ten working days. Whilst this doesnt excuse NatWest from the 
mistakes it made, I need to consider this when thinking about the overall impact Miss M was 
caused. 
Ive also considered that Miss M had to borrow money from relatives due to the delays in 
getting the funds. She tells us this caused her some embarrassment which I can appreciate. 
But from the timeline shes provided, I can see the money was borrowed on 11 May 2021 
and Miss M received the funds through her own bank later that day. So Im pleased to see 
that she wouldve been able to repay her debt quickly with minimal impact to her relatives.  
Taking everything into account, I believe Miss M has suffered unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience due to NatWests errors and it was only through the involvement of her own bank that she was able to get this resolved. This is below the standard Id expect from 
NatWest and Im satisfied Miss M should be compensated for what went wrong. 
Ive thought about what I wouldve awarded Miss M had NatWest made no offer to 
compensate her, taking into account the individual circumstances of this complaint and our 
approach to compensation. Having done so, Im satisfied £350 fairly reflects what went 
wrong, the impact this had and the length of time it took to be resolved. Im also pleased to 
see that NatWest has reimbursed Miss Ms fuel costs as well. So Im not asking NatWest to 
do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman