DRN-4382472
The complaint
Mrs P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont write off her outstanding loan 
balance due to her personal circumstances.
Mrs P is represented by her husband in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mrs P herself.
What happened
Mrs P says that she took out a personal loan in 2010, but she had difficulties making her 
repayments, so she arranged a repayment plan of £40 a month with them. Mrs P says that 
due to the cost of living she is unable to afford this. She says that the loan had been passed 
to different debt collection agencies (DCAs) at least three times and they ignored the 
previous arrangement of charging no interest. Mrs P made a complaint to NatWest.
NatWest did not uphold Mrs Ps complaint. They said that the events that Mrs P had 
complained about were more than six years ago, so they were unable to look into the loan 
being passed to a DCA in 2013. They said the last time interest had been charged on the 
loan was 30 April 2013. NatWest said writing off the debt was not a standard procedure that 
they would take, but because of Mrs Ps personal circumstances they agreed to recall the 
loan from the DCA, and to set up a plan which was affordable to them. Mrs P brought her 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ps complaint. She said from the notes she could see, 
NatWest had been trying to contact Mrs P to come to a resolution. She said the debt 
consisted of a personal loan and a current account, and that NatWest had treated Mrs P 
fairly. 
Mrs P asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she sent us a statement dated 18 September 2023, which stated she had been 
charged 12.27% interest, and an outstanding balance of £25,522.15, despite the loan she 
took out was for £24,000 back in 2010. They said NatWest had not been in touch with them 
to make an arrangement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P has made a number of points to this service, and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us  including her personal circumstances since taking out the loan and 
now. I wont address these in detail in this decision to help protect her identity, but I can 
assure her Ive read everything she has said. But, in line with this services role as a quick 
and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
I must be clear that Im only able to look into the actions of NatWest as part of this complaint, 
and not any other companies involved such as any DCA that the loan has been held by at 
various times. Mrs P may be able to make a complaint to any DCA if she feels those 
companies have let her down. She would need to contact them directly to raise any 
complaints she has with them.
I want to be clear to Mrs P that I am restricted to what I can look at here as part of the 
current complaint she brought to our service. The crux of her complaint is that she cant 
afford her current repayments and she wants NatWest to write off the loan balance, and this 
is what Ive looked into. But Im also aware she has since brought questions relating to other 
things since she took out the loan, which I may not be able to answer as this either wasnt 
part of her original complaint or the events happened more than six years before she 
brought her complaint to NatWest. 
I do have a historic statement for the loan. This starts from 28 February 2013, but as part of 
this complaint about her current repayments being unaffordable, I would be unable to ask 
NatWest to go back further than this. So Im unable to give Mrs P a definitive answer as to 
why the outstanding balance is more than the original loan amount. The statement shows 
that the last time interest was added to this account was 30 April 2013. The outstanding 
balance at this time was £26,432. 
I know Mrs P has concerns that the repayments she has made have not reduced the 
outstanding balance, but the historic statement shows 18 payments of £15 between 1 
August 2013-31 December 2014. Then from 17 June 2021-20 September 2022 there are 16 
payments of £40. There is a running total outstanding balance and Im satisfied that this has 
reduced when Mrs P has made a payment. 
So despite the letter that Mrs P has recently received from NatWest saying the interest 
charged was 12.27%, I cant see any interest being added. When the last payment was 
made on 20 September 2022, the outstanding balance was shown as £25,522.15. This is 
the exact same balance as the statement dated 18 September 2023  so I want to reassure 
Mrs P that no interest had been added despite the statement she received showing 12.27%.
When customers are in financial difficulty, we would expect the lender to show forbearance 
to a customer and look at their personal circumstances to see how they can assist them. But 
this does not mean we would automatically expect them to write off an outstanding loan 
balance  after all, Mrs P had been paid these funds by NatWest, so they are entitled to 
have this money repaid to them. But we would expect any repayment plan to be affordable 
for a customer and we would expect a lender to have alternative options in place if a 
customers circumstances change during any arrangement.
While NatWest have provided us the general loan terms and section nine shows they can 
transfer the debt, when Mrs P made this complaint, they agreed to take the loan back from 
the DCA. Im satisfied that this is the fairest thing for them to do based on Mrs Ps current 
circumstances. 
I can also see that NatWest wrote to Mrs P on 14 January 2023. This letter is from their 
financial health and support team, and the letter asks for her to call them. So Mrs P may 
want to ring NatWest directly to see what arrangement they can come to. NatWest should be 
mindful of Mrs Ps circumstances and only arrange a repayment plan based on her 
affordability. Based on Mrs Ps financial circumstances, she may not have the affordability to 
make any repayments currently, and NatWest should be mindful about this. But it follows I 
dont require NatWest to do anything further as part of this complaint.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman