DRN-4343302
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car acquired with finance from Shogun Finance Limited (SFL) wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with SFL. At the point of supply the car was brand new. The purchase price of 
the car was £32,499. Mr B paid a deposit of £4,092. The balance was repayable by 60 
payments of £573.10.
In September 2022 the car went for a service and MOT. The car passed the MOT with an 
advisory that the front shock absorbers had a light misting of oil. At the time of the MOT the 
odometer reading was 26,247 miles.
The garage who carried out the service contacted the manufacturer and asked them to 
repair the shock absorber under warranty. On 1 November 2022 the warranty repair was 
authorised.
Mr B has told this service that the manufacturer is no longer trading in the UK and that there 
are only a few dealerships authorised to carry out warranty work. Mr B has experienced 
delays in getting the work carried out.
In April 2023 Mr B raised a complaint with SFL. He said the fault with the shock absorber 
meant that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and asked SFL to arrange for repairs to be 
completed.
SFL issued a final response in May 2023. It said it wasnt upholding Mr Bs complaint 
because there was no evidence that the fault with the shock absorber was present or 
developing at the point of supply.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he hadnt seen any evidence which 
stated that the fault was likely to be present or developing at the point of supply and that the 
fault was likely due to wear and tear.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the fault with the shock absorber was a manufacturing defect, 
because it shouldntve failed after only 26,000 miles. He said that the manufacturer had 
agreed to repair the fault under warranty but there were no dealerships which could carry out 
the work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. 
The car supplied to Mr B was brand new. So Id expect it to be of a very high quality and to 
remain fault free for as reasonable period of time.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs within the first 6 months of the 
point of supply, its assumed that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply 
and its generally up to the business to put things right.
Where a fault occurs outside of the first 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up 
to the consumer to show that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Ive reviewed the available evidence about the issues which Mr B experienced with the car. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the car had a fault. I say this because Ive seen 
correspondence from the manufacturer which confirms that the offside front shock absorber 
is leaking and requires replacement.
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Mr B discovered the issue with the shock absorber in September 2022. Hed been driving 
the car for around 3 years and had covered around 26,000 miles. Theres no information to 
suggest that there was an issue with the shock absorber prior to September 2022. The 
garage who serviced the car who identified the issue havent said that the issue is something 
which was likely to have been present or developing at the point of supply. Based on the 
information Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence to persuade me that the fault was likely to 
have been present or developing at the point of supply.
Mr B has said that a shock absorber shouldnt fail at 26,000 miles. Ive thought about this, 
because if the shock absorber failed prematurely, there may be grounds for saying that the 
car wasnt sufficiently durable, and therefore wasnt of satisfactory quality. Ive undertaken 
some research into the life expectancy of a shock absorber. Generally, a shock absorber 
can be expected to last 4 or 5 years. However, there are several factors which can affect 
this, such as road conditions, because impact to shock absorbers due to road conditions 
means that they can become misplaced , causing them to leak.
Although I appreciate that Mr B is frustrated at having to replace the shock absorber after 3 
years, Im not persuaded that the shock absorber has failed prematurely or that the car 
wasnt sufficiently durable. It seems more likely that the issue is due to general wear and 
tear.
For these reasons, Im unable to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. I wont be asking SFL to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 Emma Davy
Ombudsman