DRN-3809523
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H are unhappy as they feel Aviva Insurance Limited havent provided the 
free legal advice in line with the cover available under their legal expenses insurance. 
Because of this they say that Aviva are in breach of contract.
Theyre also unhappy that the policy document provides incorrect information in relation to
making a complaint about legal expenses insurance claims.
What happened
Mr H contacted Aviva via the free legal helpline to seek advice in relation to a potential
tenancy dispute.
Hes unhappy as he feels he hasnt received the free legal advice the policy details as the
adviser wasnt able to interpret legislation or contracts and provide more specific advice in
relation to his query. He feels it was just a legal information service rather than a legal advice
service and doesnt reflect whats offered in the policy.
Mr H also says the policy document provides incorrect information when detailing who to
contact when making a complaint about legal expenses insurance claims. It refers to a linked
organisation that provides advice on legal matters. But the number detailed doesnt connect
policy holders to that organisation directly.
Aviva rejected the complaint. They explained that whilst the policy provides free legal advice,
this doesnt always mean the advisors can take the case on or assist with the enquiry. The
advice may be that the policyholder needs to consult with their own lawyer, as explained in
the policy document. They also explained the number is correct and takes policy holders to 
Avivas representative who then directs the call appropriately.
Our investigator wasnt able to resolve things, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
In October 2022, I issued a provisional decision, which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Hs strength of feeling in relation to this complaint and the time
theyve invested into it. Whilst I have considered all the information provided by both parties,
I havent commented on all of it. This isnt meant as a discourtesy but reflects the informal
nature of our service.
Legal Advice
The policy provides access to free legal advice, it says:
We will discuss the issue with you and help you understand your options.
We will help you understand what your legal rights are, what course of action is
available to you, if that action can be taken by you or whether you need to consult
with a lawyer. We will also advise you if your issue could be covered under this legal
expenses cover.
Having listened to the calls with the legal advice line, Im satisfied that Avivas representative
did provide advice in line with this. They referred to relevant legal definitions that applied and
answered Mr Hs questions, providing some guidance around the types of questions that
may be asked of him by the third party as well as further information he could obtain from the
third party to help understand his situation. They also provided some detail around areas of
specific legislation that is unlikely to apply in the circumstances and what they felt would
more likely apply in this case.
I understand Mr H was looking for a more in-depth service, supporting him in understanding
legislation for example and reviewing documents like contracts. But the role of the free
advice line is to give advice, not run the legal case. I think its clear from the policy
documents that this is whats on offer. So, Im satisfied the service provided was in line with
the terms and conditions.
Complaints Contact Number
The policy provides a phone number for making complaints about legal expense claims, but
it also identifies an associated organisation that handles Avivas legal expense claims. It
suggests the number would put the caller directly through to that organisation.
The number provided isnt a direct number for that organisation but is a general number
used by Aviva to triage calls. Aviva have explained thats because they have a process to
ensure calls goes through to the correct area. Aviva advised if the call was to be directed to
the organisation mentioned, they would provide customers with a direct number. Likewise, it
seems to me if a call came through to make a complaint, given that it is a triage service,
theyd refer the call to the correct area to deal with that complaint.
I appreciate this isnt the impression Mr H got from the documents as it does suggest youd
be calling the associated organisation directly. However, Im not aware of any specific issues
Mr H had in making a complaint because of this. The general number provided is a triage
area so whilst it doesnt direct you as suggested, it would still provide the best contact point
for raising a dispute particularly if that was in relation to help and advice provided in the early
stages of contact.
Summary
Overall, Im satisfied that Aviva have provided an advice service as detailed in the terms and
conditions and whilst the number doesnt specifically direct you to the organisation detailed,
the contact numbers provided direct callers to the appropriate service required.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva didnt provide any further information for my consideration. Mr H didnt accept my 
findings, referencing a historic decision issued by another Ombudsman at the service. He 
also said he didnt feel Id reached a fair decision and had restricted my consideration of the 
complaint, not considering all the information, and had misrepresented the contract.
Mr H also disagrees that Aviva provided free legal advice and noted details of calls hed 
had with Aviva where they say they were unable to advise if Mr H was in breach of the 
tenancy, interpret legal documents or explain relevant statute. And the advisers had 
described the service as a legal information service. He also said that all the advisers were 
law degree graduates and that none of them were Solicitors authorised to give the legal advice promised. He was instead advised to seek legal advice from a Solicitor at his own 
cost.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained in my provisional decision, I havent commented on it all; instead, Ive referred 
to what I feel is most relevant to the outcome reached.
I think its important to explain, this service is an informal dispute resolution service. My role 
here is to consider whether Aviva did something wrong. In this case that means Ive looked 
at whether Aviva provided the service they said they were offering, as described in the 
policy. It isnt to determine if Aviva have breached the contract from a legal perspective. That 
is something only a Court can decide.
I understand Mr H has said he wasnt expecting the advice line to run the case and 
continues to feel the free legal advice wasnt given. Whilst the advice line were unable to 
advise if Mr H was in breach of tenancy or give him the level of advice he was looking for, 
they did provide guidance on what he could do to better understand his situation and provide 
support around useful legislation. As this wasnt an active dispute but more Mr H looking for 
clarity on his legal position, they could only provide advice based on that situation. Given the 
position I think they provided the service described in line with the insurance.
Mr H is concerned I didnt take account of all the information as reference was made only to 
the policy terms. However, I also explained that I had considered all the information provided 
by both parties, this includes the schedule and associated documentation.
The policy explains that a legal professional appointed by Aviva will answer the call. It 
doesnt specify that, that person will be a Solicitor. And the terms explain that the advice 
given might be to speak to a Solicitor. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs H were given the 
impression a Solicitor would answer the call or give advice. I appreciate Mr and Mrs H might 
have wanted that but that wasnt the service Aviva were offering. And for the reasons Ive 
mentioned above I think Mr H was given advice by a legal professional.
Mr H has said the schedule outlines free legal advice and 24/7 free legal and tax helpline 
and these are distinct from each other. Im not sure I agree; in this case both amount to the 
same thing. Mr H should note that there are circumstances in which legal advice and 
representation are given under this type of policy- namely where a successful claim is made 
which meets the policy terms. But his problem wouldnt qualify for this largely because hes 
not involved in a live dispute. Its for this reason that the helpline was his only port of call. 
The fact that the helpline didnt provide him with the level of advice he wanted however 
doesnt mean that Aviva did something wrong.
Complaints contact number
As I said in my provisional decision, the details provided for making complaints about the 
policy doesnt direct policy holders to an associated organisation as expected. Once dialled it 
welcomes callers to the legal advice line.  I can understand why Mr H has concerns, but the 
caller is then presented with options, one of them being for legal expenses policy queries. 
Having called the number and selected that option, Im satisfied that Aviva then direct calls 
to the correct place if the caller asks to make a complaint. Im not aware of any delays or issues Mr H had because of this. Aviva may want to review their process to ensure there 
isnt any confusion for callers moving forward, but this isnt something I can compel them to 
do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman