DRN-4109843
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited declined their 
claim on their home insurance. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J had home insurance thats underwritten by AA. In February 2022 there was a 
storm that caused damage to their property. They made a claim on the insurance.
AA sent a surveyor to inspect the damage and subsequently declined the claim. It said, while 
it agreed there had been a storm, there was no external damage to the property and the 
internal damage had resulted due to wear and tear and the property being no longer water 
tight. 
Mr and Mrs J were unhappy with this and made a complaint. They said there was no 
evidence of maintenance issues with their property and the internal damage had only 
appeared after the heavy rain during the storm. AA didnt uphold the complaint so they 
brought it to this service.
Our investigator initially said that while AA had acted fairly by declining the claim for storm 
damage, it should have covered the internal damage under the Accidental Damage cover in 
the policy. 
In response AA said that it thought the water staining was to such an extent that it would 
have been there a while, so it thought the damage had occurred gradually over time, rather 
than suddenly as required for the accidental damage cover to respond. Our investigator 
considered this and recommended the complaint not be upheld as he thought AA had acted 
fairly by declining the claim for the external and internal damage. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree. They said the damage had only appeared after the storm and 
water staining can develop after just a few hours, so AA hadnt acted fairly by declining the 
claim on this basis. They asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
After the complaint came to me, I came to a different outcome to our investigator. I wrote to 
both sides to explain my provisional findings. I said:
I agreed that the original decline of the claim under the storm peril was a fair one, as 
Id not seen any evidence to show that there was damage to the external building 
caused by the storm. 
However I didnt agree AA had done enough to show that the damage to the internal 
building didnt happen suddenly.  
I said that water staining can develop very quickly, depending on the conditions in the 
property. And the storm in February 2022 lasted a number of days with strong winds 
and heavy rainfall, so I thought it likely that the staining built up over a number of 
days. 
I also thought the staining showed no signs of mould developing or drying out, so 
didnt think it likely that it had been present for some time as suggested by AA. 
I therefore said I was minded to direct AA to cover the internal damage under the 
accidental damage cover in the policy and pay Mr and Mrs J £100 compensation to 
make up for the additional distress it had caused by initially declining the claim. 
Response to my provisional findings
Mr and Mrs J had nothing further to add in response to my provisional findings. 
AA didnt agree with my findings. It said the photos of the damage to the internal walls and 
ceilings were uploaded two days after the storm and the water staining was already 
significant. It said this showed that the stains developed some time before the storm event. It 
also provided comment from its inhouse desktop surveyor, who said the water staining 
wasnt consistent with a one-off event.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what AA has provided but it doesnt change my position. While its provided 
comment from a desktop surveyor, I dont find this persuasive. In the report issued by the 
surveyor that attended the property around the time of the storm, there is no comment on the 
damage to the internal property having been there for some time. Instead it merely 
comments on the external walls of the property being subject to wear and tear. An in-person 
inspection is more persuasive than a desk top review of photos alone. And if the surveyor 
who inspected the damage originally had considered the staining to have been present 
before the storm event, I would have expected this to have been noted in this report. 
Further, while the photos were uploaded only two days after the date of the claim, the storm 
in question was a significant one that lasted for a few days, with a large amount of rain falling 
in this time. So its likely that the staining developed over a period of a week when the storm 
took place. But as it was the result of one incident, I still think this fairly meets the definition 
of accidental damage under the policy. 
As I said in my provisional findings, if the water staining had been present for some time Id 
expect to see evidence of mould or softening areas that had previously dried out. And this 
isnt evident in any of the photos.
Based on this, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. And therefore require 
AA to accept the claim under the accidental damage cover and pay Mr and Mrs J £100 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. I direct AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited to:
Accept Mr and Mrs Js claim for the damage to the internal part of the property under 
the accidental damage cover in the policy and settle the claim in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. 
Pay Mr and Mrs J £100 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman