DRN-3990411
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the way her sons gender was recorded by Forester Life Limited, 
referred to as Forester or the business.
 
In short, she says it was recorded incorrectly, and is unhappy about accessing information 
about the investments. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Foresters provided screenshots of the information it received from the previous 
provider, which shows that Mrs Bs son was recorded as female and that his 
salutation was miss. 
It was reasonable for Foresters to assume that this information was correct unless it 
was given reasons to think otherwise. 
In the circumstances, it wasnt unreasonable for Foresters to seek  by way of a birth 
certificate  evidence of Mrs Bs sons gender being recorded incorrectly, based on 
the information it received from the previous provider. 
Whilst Mrs B preferred how the previous provider made information available, that 
doesnt meant Foresters has behaved unreasonably by making its information online 
as standard.   
If Mrs B finds this medium difficult to access information, she has other options 
available to her such as email or over the phone. Foresters havent deliberately made 
it difficult for her to access information. 
In conclusion, shes not persuaded that Foresters have treated Mrs B badly in 
relation to the issues raised.   
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
She maintains shes not seen the screenshot referred to by the investigator and is fed up 
with Foresters blaming the previous providers and vice versa. Shes not unhappy about not 
having access to information but about how things were explained to her. She remains angry 
about transfer fees and greedy companies still profiting despite not accepting responsibility 
for their mistakes. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs B says, I cant safely say that 
the business behaved unreasonably in relation to her complaint points. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mrs Bs strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case, but I 
have in this instance. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs B, and the business, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. And as 
part of my inquisitorial role, I can also consider (other) issues that I think are relevant as well 
as not consider issues that I consider arent relevant.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Based on the screenshot provided by the business, it seems  more likely than not  that the 
(incorrect) information in respect of Mrs Bs sons gender, was provided by the previous 
provider during the migration. In other words, Foresters only dealt with the information it was 
given, rather than produce its own data or record information incorrectly. In the 
circumstances I also cant blame Foresters for not questioning this information of its own 
volition because it had no reason to. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant 
blame Foresters for this situation. 
A business, after acquiring a new business, is perfectly entitled to run its affairs how it sees 
fit. In other words, a business is able, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial 
judgement, to run its affairs how it pleases, as long as it doesnt behave unreasonably. 
Subject to any specific agreement, a business isnt obliged to operate in a way that a 
predecessor business has done. So, Foresters hasnt done anything wrong by giving access 
to account information online, in a manner that might not have been available previously. 
I note Foresters also has options to email Mrs B information or deal with her on the phone, in 
case online isnt suitable for her. Despite what Mrs B now says, Ive not seen persuasive 
evidence that the business might not have conveyed this information to her in a reasonable 
manner.    
I cant see that the investments have been operated any differently to how they have been 
previously. Im aware Foresters has made reasonably clear how the investments worked, 
including explaining that the investments are invested in the same index as they were when 
the plans were held with the previous business.  
I appreciate Mrs B will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. 
Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im not persuaded to require the business to do anything. In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold 
this complaint and give her what she wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman