DRN-2940061
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the repairs that Aviva Insurance Limited made to her car after a 
claim on her motor insurance policy. She wants it to reimburse her for the cost of repairs she 
had made and for her time and inconvenience.
 
What happened
Mrs Ms car was damaged in an accident and Aviva took it to its approved repairers. Mrs M 
was unhappy with the quality of the repairs made. Aviva appointed an independent engineer 
to inspect the car and he was satisfied with most of the repairs. The repairer agreed to make 
two minor repairs. Aviva offered Mrs M £100 compensation for its delay in coming back to 
her. 
Mrs M remained unhappy and said a dealership had quoted for further rectification. Aviva 
wanted its own engineer to inspect the car, but this was delayed due to the pandemic lock-
down and Mrs Ms own reasons. By this time, the car had been repaired for £485 (all that 
Mrs M could afford), but the repairer hadnt kept the damaged parts. So Avivas engineer 
couldnt verify the work was needed. The car was road tested by the repairer and it passed 
its MOT. The engineer recommended that Aviva should pay Mrs M £183 towards the repairs 
she had done. He was satisfied with the other repairs, but Mrs M remained unhappy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Aviva 
wasnt responsible for the delays in the claim as these were outside its control. He thought 
Mrs M had been provided with a hire car whilst hers was being repaired. He thought Aviva 
had relied on engineering evidence that the repairs had been completed satisfactorily. He 
thought it had reimbursed Mrs M for further repairs that were accident-related. And he 
thought its offer of £100 compensation for the lack of communication was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mrs M replied that she had been compelled to have further repairs done to make the car 
roadworthy. She couldnt afford all the repairs recommended by the dealership. She said she 
hadnt been provided with a hire car while this work was done. She said shed had months of 
stress and frustration getting her car repaired satisfactorily. She provided photographs and 
quotes in support of this. She thought Aviva should pay for all the work shed had done. 
Mrs M also said she hadnt been provided with a certificate guaranteeing the repair of her 
paint work protection. And she said Avivas engineer had disagreed with the independent 
assessors report. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this has been a frustrating and stressful experience for Mrs M. I can 
understand that she wants her car repaired to its pre-accident condition.
The investigator has already explained that this service doesnt assess whether or how 
damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, 
the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine 
whether an insurance company has considered all the available evidence and whether it can 
justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
I can see that Mrs M was very unhappy with the initial repairs. When that happens, we think 
its good practice for the insurer to appoint an independent assessor to inspect the work. And 
I think Aviva reasonably did this. 
Mrs M questioned the assessment carried out by the independent assessor. Ive looked at 
his report and can see that the car had been repaired when he inspected it. But he also 
looked at photographs taken at various stages of the repair. And he was satisfied with how 
this had been done with the exception of some glue marks and the alignment of the front 
wing. But the repairer agreed to rectify these. 
Mrs M remained unhappy and took her car to a dealership. I can understand that she felt her 
car hadnt been fully repaired. But I havent seen evidence that it was unroadworthy. And I 
havent seen that Mrs M had the repairs approved by Aviva before she arranged for them to 
be carried out. So I cant say that Aviva is responsible for the cost of these repairs.
The dealership provided a list of works required but Mrs M said she could only afford to pay 
for £485 of these. Aviva wanted its own engineer to check that this work was required and 
accident-related. I think that was fair and reasonable. But, before it could do this, the repairs 
had already been completed, the damaged parts hadnt been retained, and no images were 
taken. So I think Aviva had no evidence that this work was required or completed. I think it 
reasonably reimbursed Mrs M £183 for the cost of items that it thought may be accident-
related.
Mrs M said that Avivas engineer disagreed with the independent assessors view. But I 
havent seen evidence of this.
But Mrs M remained unhappy and she provided Aviva with a detailed list of items that she 
thought should be repaired and costs that she had incurred. Avivas engineer reviewed 
these. He said many of the points were new concerns, unsupported by engineering 
evidence, that hadnt been previously raised. And he relied on the independent assessors 
report, his own inspection of the car, and the successful road test and MOT to decide that 
Aviva wasnt responsible for them. 
I think that was fair and reasonable as Mrs M hadnt provided further engineering evidence 
to support her claim. So I think Aviva has considered all the available evidence and has 
justified its decision about the repairs to Mrs Ms car, with one exception.
Mrs M said she had no evidence that the repair pack for the paint protection product had 
been applied. She provided evidence from the supplier to show that she should have been 
given a certificate showing that it had been applied to the repaired panels. Also, it confirmed 
that the repairer had ordered this product after the date it had said it had applied it. 
Due to the passage of time and changing staff, I think its difficult to say what happened at 
the time. But I can see that Aviva wrote to Mrs M when it was investigating her complaint to 
say that the independent assessor:
has confirmed that he has seen the documentation to support that the [product] was 
applied and, having inspected the car, confirmed this to be the case. I will speak to [the 
repairer] regarding the paperwork for this.
But I havent seen that this was followed up. Ive seen that the garage ordered the 
Insurance Repair Kit. But the only evidence Ive seen that the product was applied is an 
amendment to Mrs Ms original certificate of guarantee, which isnt satisfactory. The garage 
wasnt able to provide the Bodyshop Repair document. 
So I think Aviva should put this right and pay to have the product reapplied to the repaired 
panels. I can see that Avivas engineer has obtained an estimate for £60 for this.  Aviva has agreed to pay Mrs M an additional £60 to cover this cost and £40 for the trouble 
she has been put to in repeatedly raising this matter. If the cost is now higher, then I think 
Aviva should reimburse Mrs M for this on production of an invoice. I think this restores her 
position. 
This is in addition to £183 to cover the repairs Aviva agreed and its offer of £100 
compensation for its lack of communication early in the claim. Mrs M initially rejected this 
offer, but I think Aviva should honour it if she now decides to accept it. 
Mrs M said shed not been provided with a hire car whilst repairs were carried out at her 
garage. But I think Aviva wasnt required by the policy terms and conditions to provide a hire 
car whilst Mrs M had her car repaired at her own repairer. 
Putting things right
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mrs M £100 compensation to cover the cost of the parts and labour for the paint 
protection repair kit and the distress and inconvenience caused by its delay in providing 
this. If the cost is higher than Avivas £60 estimate, it should reimburse Mrs M for this on 
production of an invoice. 
2. Honour its offer to pay Mrs M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its lack of communication and £183 reimbursement for the cost of her repairs. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman