DRN-3082617
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc acted unfairly by declining his application to port his 
mortgage.  
What happened
Mr S took out a mortgage with Santander in 2019. It had a fixed rate of interest for five years. 
And if the mortgage was repaid within that five-year period an early repayment charge (ERC) 
would apply.
In May 2021, Mr S applied to port his mortgage to a different property. Mr S has explained 
that he was selling his property for approximately £340,000 and buying a new property for 
£280,000. He initially intended to retain the £60,000 in equity that would be released from 
the sale. And this wouldve meant he had a higher loan-to-value (LTV) ratio after porting his 
mortgage, than before. But he said, if this was an issue for Santander, hed make a payment 
to reduce the borrowing, so that the LTV remained the same.
Santander initially indicated it was willing to lend and a valuation of the new property was 
booked  for which Mr S paid a fee. After the application was reviewed by its underwriters, 
Santander declined to lend. I understand the fee for the valuation was refunded.
Mr S complained to Santander as he was unhappy with its decision and did not understand 
why his application was declined. He said hed been able to arrange a mortgage with 
another lender, but would now have to pay an ERC, which he didnt feel was fair.
Santander said it felt the application had been declined correctly. It said this was because 
Mr S hadnt been able to provide sufficient evidence of his income for recent months.
Unhappy with this response, Mr S asked our service to consider the complaint. He explained 
that his income had been impacted by the pandemic  particularly in the months immediately 
prior to the application as hed been unable to carry out as much work due to the national 
lockdown. But he was still able to evidence income for the year, and several years before.
Santander informed our service that, in addition to it believing the mortgage to be 
unaffordable (as it was felt the evidence of income was insufficient) there was another 
reason that this application did not meet its criteria. And that was because it believed Mr S 
partner was contributing towards the mortgage deposit, so under its rules, she would need to 
be added as a joint applicant.
One of our investigators looked into matters. He didnt think it wouldve been right for 
Santander to decline the application, based solely on affordability. This was because he 
thought the rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) meant that an assessment of 
this could be set aside here. But he felt the other reason provided by Santander was 
reasonable. So, he didnt think it had made an error by declining the application to port.
Mr S did not agree. He said Santander had, at no point, given him any reason other than 
affordability for why the application was declined. If it had, he couldve clarified any concerns 
about his partner. And he also said the conclusions Santander had drawn here, without 
seeking further information from him, were incorrect. It had said his partner was contributing 
towards the deposit, so towards the mortgage. But he said this was not the case  the 
property he was buying cost less than the one he was selling. So, there was no additional 
deposit, and any payment to reduce the borrowing so the LTV matched, wouldve come from 
the equity. And he was clear that his partner was not seeking to acquire an interest in the 
property.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2021 explaining that I was inclined to uphold 
Mr S complaint. Below are extracts from those provisional findings, explaining why I thought 
this.
Mr Ss mortgage offer from 2019 explained that his mortgage could be ported but any 
applications to do so must pass Santanders lending criteria at the time the application to 
port was made.
Santander has given several reasons why it felt that this application fell outside of its lending 
criteria. Ive looked at each of these, to decide if I think it has declined the application to port 
fairly.
The LTV ratio
In its response to our service, Santander said one of its concerns was that the LTV would be 
higher on the new property as the purchase price was lower than the sale price of the 
previous property.
Ive looked at Mr S mortgage offer from 2019. He borrowed £165,000 at that time. The 
mortgage offer indicated that the value Santander used for Mr S property at that stage was 
£276,000. So, given the property he was looking to port the mortgage to was being 
purchased for £280,000 and hed been making payments towards the capital for a couple of 
years, the LTV ratio after the port would not have been more than when the mortgage was 
originally agreed.
Using the sale price Mr S had agreed for his property of £340,000, the LTV wouldve 
increased following the port. But Im not sure it was necessarily fair of Santander to use this 
price, and improved LTV, as a reason to decline the application. As it had no relation to the 
original lending agreement.
In any event though, Mr S has said he wouldve used some of the equity being received from 
the sale of his existing property to make a lump sum payment to his mortgage and reduce 
the LTV. And hed have done so to the level that it did match the LTV when taking account of 
the sale price hed agreed.
So, this reason for the application apparently falling outside of Santanders lending criteria 
could very easily have been addressed. But I cant see any evidence that Santander actually 
discussed this concern with Mr S, or his broker, or gave the opportunity for this to be 
addressed.
Taking all of this into account, Im not sure this was a fair reason for Santander to decline the 
application to port.Proof of income and affordability of the mortgage
Santander has said that another reason the application was declined was that Mr S was 
unable to evidence income sufficiently for the three months prior to the application. Which in 
effect meant that it considered the application unaffordable.
Mr S has explained why that was the case  the national lockdown as a result of the 
pandemic had meant he had been unable to work to the level he usually wouldve. That is 
why the three months bank statements Santander were asking for didnt provide sufficient 
information. I dont think this explanation is unreasonable. And I think Santander sticking 
rigidly to demanding this specific evidence, without having account for the wider 
circumstances, isnt entirely fair.
In any event though, I think the decision as a whole to decline the porting application for 
affordability wasnt reasonable.
There are regulations that have flowed from the FCAs Mortgage Market Review (MMR). 
This has led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential 
mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter 
lending assessments, particularly around affordability and repayment strategies for interest 
only mortgages, aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more 
responsibly.
The FCA recognised though that this could impact existing borrowers who wanted to make 
changes to their mortgages. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. These rules are 
set out in the Mortgage and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB)
One such rule, MCOB 11.6.3, says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability 
assessment or apply the new rules around affordability assessments, if a borrower wants to 
vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing (other than for 
product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage that affect its affordability.
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im satisfied that Mr S request to port his mortgage would 
be one where MCOB 11.6.3 could be applied. And Im of the opinion that it wouldnt 
therefore have been fair for Santander to decline the application to port on the grounds of 
affordability.
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Santander took this rule into account when 
considering the application. So, based on what Ive currently seen, I dont think this was a 
fair reason either, to decline Mr S application. 
Mr S partner not being part of the application
Santander has said an account statement for Mr S savings, provided by his broker, showed 
payments being made into that account. And when it queried this with the broker, they 
confirmed the payments were from Mr S partner. So, Santander said that, as his partner 
was not being added to the mortgage, this meant the application fell outside of its lending 
criteria.Firstly, as Mr S has pointed out, I cant see that Santander explained this at any stage to Mr 
S or his broker. And in the circumstances, I dont think this was fair. By not being clear about 
this, Mr S wasnt given the opportunity to answer any questions Santander had. And any 
appeal Mr S made to the initial decision was always likely to fail, as this wouldve remained 
unaddressed. He was also denied the opportunity to instead apply for a joint mortgage if he 
had so chosen. Mr S has been clear that this was never his intention. But by Santander not 
sharing this information, which I think it shouldve done, he wasnt even given the opportunity 
to decide if this was something he wanted to do.
I also dont think Santander has in fact applied its policy fairly here.
Santander has provided an extract from its lending policy. And broadly it says it cant 
consider an application without the addition of a party as a joint account holder if they are 
providing a lump sum towards the property purchase and intend to acquire an interest in the 
property. Or they previously assisted with the purchase of the property or contributed to the 
mortgage.
As Ive already explained, Mr S was purchasing a property for approximately £60,000 less 
than the one he was selling. There was no additional lump sum contribution to be made that 
I can see. And even in the event hed made a payment to reduce the LTV, as previously 
discussed, this wouldve been covered by the proceeds from the previous sale.
The savings account statement seems to have been provided purely to evidence that he had 
additional funds still available, beyond his income, to support that the mortgage was 
affordable.
Mr S has also been clear that his partner has not and is not acquiring an interest in the new 
property.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr S partner contributed to the previous property purchase. 
And although they appear to have made regular payments to Mr S, hes been clear this was 
to do with an unrelated financial matter. And given these payments were to his savings, I 
dont think there is enough evidence to say on balance that his partner was contributing 
towards the mortgage payments either.
So, taking all of that into account, I dont think Santander has applied this policy correctly or 
acted fairly in declining the porting application for this reason. And by not discussing this 
concern with Mr S  and not providing him the opportunity to explain any of this  it unfairly 
prevented the application from proceeding.
Taking everything into account, I dont think any of the reasons Santander has given for 
declining the application are fair here. So, I think it has made an error.
Putting things right
As I think Santander has made an error, Ive thought about the impact this has had on Mr S 
and what Santander should do to put this right.
Based on what Ive seen, Im currently of the view that if his application to port had been 
correctly considered, it wouldve been approved. As Ive said, I think the reasons Santander 
has given for declining the application here have not been applied fairly. And there is nothing 
else that Ive been made aware of that I think would likely have resulted in the application not 
going ahead.So, without the error, Mr S Santander mortgage wouldve likely been transferred to his new 
property. He wouldnt have received the refund of the £180 valuation fee, that was provided 
when this application was declined, if this had happened.
But because this didnt happen, Mr S has sought a mortgage elsewhere, which I understand 
has been approved. I believe this is likely to have come at an additional cost to him  by way 
of application fees with the alternate lender  which he wouldnt otherwise have incurred.
And the repayment of his Santander mortgage, as a result of this, means an ERC is payable, 
that he also wouldnt otherwise have been required to pay.
I understand that the purchase of Mr S new property may not have been fully completed yet. 
So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair to say that Santander should now simply 
allow him to port the mortgage, as he previously requested, to address some of this impact. 
But I dont think it would be unreasonable, given what has gone on, if Mr S has lost faith in 
Santander and instead would prefer to proceed with the new lender.
With that in mind, I think the fair way to address this complaint would be for Santander to 
waive the ERC applicable here. And I think, on Mr S providing evidence of the application 
costs hes incurred from his new lender, Santander should refund those costs  less the 
£180 valuation charge it previously refunded, which it otherwise wouldve been entitled to 
retain.
Ive thought about whether Santander should also make a payment for the upset this matter 
has caused Mr S. And I think it should, as I dont think it has handled this matter well  
particularly by not being clear with Mr S about the relevant reasons the application was 
declined. And Mr S has had to make a further application he wouldnt otherwise have 
needed to, which I believe likely caused him inconvenience.
Im conscious that the application was, in my view, considered promptly by Santander. And I 
dont think Santander caused any unreasonable delays  even if it did in my view reach the 
wrong outcome when considering the application. So, taking everything into account, I think 
a payment of £200 for the trouble and upset caused by its handling of matters would be fair 
here.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Mr S said he was pleased with my provisional findings. He confirmed he had lost faith with 
Santander and would prefer to now proceed with another lender. As a result, he asked that I 
confirm my findings through a final decision.
Santander said that Mr S mortgage was still active, so an ERC had not yet been applied. 
But, in an attempt to settle matters, it agreed to waive the ERC applicable to Mr S mortgage 
upon the sale of his property. It also said it agreed to pay £200 for distress and 
inconvenience. In respect of covering the fees Mr S had incurred, it said it would need to see 
a copy of Mr S mortgage offer from the other lender, before it agreed to cover these. It also 
set out what it would require, in relation to Mr S bank details, in order to pay the redress 
suggested.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties have largely agreed with and provided no information 
that leads me to change my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them. So, for 
the same reasons given in those findings, and summarised above, I think the decision by 
Santander to decline Mr S porting application was unfair and, if considered correctly, I 
believe it would likely have been approved.
I think it is reasonable that Santander would want to see a copy of Mr S new mortgage offer, 
setting out the additional fees he has incurred, before making a payment to cover these. But 
Id like to make it clear to Santander that my provisional findings explained that I intended to 
direct it to cover these fees, less the valuation it has refunded. My finding was not that Id 
expect it simply to consider this. And that is still my finding here.
With regard to the other information it has said it will need in order to pay the redress Ive 
recommended, Id expect it to contact Mr S to obtain this. And Id expect that to be done 
promptly once confirmation is received that Mr S accepts my final decision (assuming he 
does in fact accept my decision). And I think that direct contact would be a suitable time for 
Mr S to provide Santander with a copy of his new mortgage offer, showing the fees he has 
incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr S complaint.
To put things right I order Santander UK Plc to;
Waive the early repayment charge payable in respect of Mr S current mortgage on 
the sale of his property. 
On receiving evidence of the costs incurred by Mr S as part of the application 
process when arranging an alternative mortgage with a new lender, pay Mr S an 
equivalent amount, less the £180 valuation fee which Santander previously refunded.
Pay Mr S £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman