DRN-3916725
The complaint
Mr C complains that he had issues opening an account with HSBC Bank Plc which led to 
him making Subject Access Requests (SARs). 
What happened
Mr C attempted to open an account with HSBC but was asked to visit a branch with 
identification as his information did not match what HSBC had on their system. Mr C 
questioned why HSBC had information on file for him as he had not had an account with 
them for many years. He raised a complaint about them retaining his data as he felt it 
breached legislation. HSBC responded explaining it had retained his data in line with what is 
expected of them. 
Mr C referred this to our service and was issued with a jurisdiction decision explaining that 
he had referred it too late. This is because he had not referred it within the six-month 
deadline set out in HSBCs final response letters. 
Following the issues opening an account with HSBC, Mr C made a series of SARs relating to 
what information HSBC held about him, specifically in connection to his previous address. 
Unfortunately, some acknowledgements letters from HSBC during this time were sent to    
Mr Cs previous address. HSBC has confirmed they have now put a marker on the account 
to ensure the previous address is not used again. They offered Mr C £750 to apologise for 
this and to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience this has caused him. Mr C was 
unhappy with this and also felt HSBCs responses to his SARs was insufficient and did not 
comply with data legislation. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and felt that the offer of £750 compensation for 
letters being sent to Mr Cs previous address was fair in the circumstances. They explained 
that when HSBC received Mr Cs SARs, they gathered data from specific sources. At the 
time, none of the sources included historic address information which is why this was not 
included in Mr Cs response. As this was not their process at the time, the Investigator did 
not feel HSBC had made an error in not including it, and the Investigator provided Mr C with 
a copy of the historic address information alongside the view. They also clarified that some 
of Mr Cs complaint points around HSBCs privacy notice and whether they have breached 
data regulations were better placed for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to 
comment on. 
Mr C did not agree with the findings. He felt the £750 compensation offered was low 
compared to other cases he had seen which he felt were similar. He had further questions 
around the historic address information provided alongside the view and about other 
information he felt HSBC had on file about him. He reiterated that he felt we should be 
considering the data retention policy of HSBC in detail and that HSBCs privacy notice did 
not fully answer his right to be informed.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a great deal of correspondence on this complaint and Mr C has provided detailed 
submissions, all of which I have considered. In this decision I will focus on issues which are - 
in my opinion - relevant to reaching a fair outcome to this complaint. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy to Mr C. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service. I also want to make 
it clear that our role as a dispute resolution service has its limitations so I want to clarify that:
The ICO regulates compliance to data protection laws in the UK. It has a number of 
powers including the power to order businesses to comply with data protection laws. 
Only the ICO can determine whether or not an organisation has broken data 
protection laws.
This service cant act in place of the ICO, or make a finding about whether or not a 
business has broken data protection laws. But we can look at whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of a dispute. 
Here, the complaint arises from the fact that HSBC held information about Mr C which led to 
him having difficulties opening a current account, and they then provided responses to SARs 
which Mr C felt were unreasonable. 
I explained above that Mr Cs complaint points around HSBCs retention of his data is 
outside of our services jurisdiction and this has been set out in a jurisdiction decision by 
another ombudsman. I appreciate Mr Cs strength of feeling that this should be considered 
as a part of this complaint, but our rules are clear on what we can and cannot consider. 
Because of this I will not be commenting on the retention of Mr Cs data. 
Ive firstly focussed on the effect HSBC sending letters to Mr Cs old address had on him. It 
is not in dispute that HSBC made an error in the circumstances and that they sent letters to 
an address that they should not have done. They have acknowledged this and offered £750. 
Ive considered if I think this is a reasonable resolution in the circumstances. 
Mr C has said in his submissions that he spoke with the individual that now lives at the 
address, who said they had disposed of the letters without opening them. I can appreciate 
that prior to this, Mr C was likely worried about his private information being viewed by 
someone else, but he eventually had confirmation that this was not the case. I understand 
that Mr C feels other cases have had higher compensation awards for data breaches, but I 
have to consider each case on its individual merits. And having done so, I think the £750 
already offered is more than I would have awarded for this particular complaint point on its 
own. So I dont think HSBC has to take further action to remedy this complaint point. 
Ive then considered the SAR requests that Mr C made following his attempt to open an 
account in branch. Id like to reiterate again that in doing so, I am not determining if HSBC 
has broken data protection laws, but I am considering if they have acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with Mr Cs SARs. 
Mr Cs initial SAR request was for all information relating to accounts held at his previous 
address. In response he received redacted letters that had been sent to his old address in 
error, redacted letters about a complaint with our service and a copy of his signature 
amongst other things. Mr C felt a profile connected to the account showing his old address 
should have been available and provided at the time.HSBC has provided an explanation as to why Mr Cs historic address history was not 
provided at the time of the first SAR. Their process at the time was to go to four departments 
within HSBC and gather data from all those departments. At the time, this did not include the 
department that would have provided the historic address information. It is now their policy to 
include this information in all SARs. 
Ive thought about this carefully. While I appreciate it wasnt their process at the time, I think 
once it became clear the crux of Mr Cs complaint was that he thought HSBC had his historic 
address on file, they could have arranged to send this information to him. Ive thought about 
what impact this would have had on Mr C, had he received this information earlier. 
Firstly, I have to consider that in response to Mr Cs SAR, he was sent redacted letters 
addressed to his previous address. So, I think it was clear HSBC did still have his previous 
address on file otherwise this would not have been possible. Secondly, Ive considered      
Mr Cs actions once he received the historic address document alongside our Investigators 
view. From what I can see, this document has only raised more questions from Mr C about 
when his account was officially closed, why specific information is on the document and why 
other addresses dont also appear on it. Because of this, I think it is unlikely that Mr C would 
have been satisfied had he received this document in response to his initial SAR request. 
On balance, I do think HSBC could have provided the historic address information sooner 
and I also think they have not engaged with all the specific requests Mr C made in his SARs. 
For example, Mr C asked what their CCTV retention policy is, if they hold telephone 
recordings and if information about him has been sent internationally. But I cant see these 
have specifically been answered. In addition, HSBC did not process his second SAR request 
as they should have done which caused delays. Ive considered the impact this has had and 
its clear that HSBCs limited responses have frustrated Mr C and Ive factored this in when 
coming to a compensation recommendation that I feel is fair. I cant see that this has caused 
Mr C any financial loss, so I have only considered the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused him. 
Throughout the course of this complaint, Mr C has also raised complaint points around his 
right to be informed and the privacy notice of HSBC not being sufficient to answer this. As 
well as other more detailed queries about data protection law. Its clear Mr C has done 
extensive research on the topic and I understand how important this issue is to him. 
As explained above, it is not my role to determine if HSBC has broken data protection laws 
and it isnt within my remit to comment on if their privacy notice meets those laws. The 
Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP), section 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook, set out what I will consider on a case. This includes relevant law and regulations, 
regulatory rules and guidance, codes of practice and what I consider to be good industry 
practice. When considering this, my role is to determine what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
While I recognise that HSBC may not have answered all of Mr Cs queries in a way he felt 
was correct, it would not be reasonable for me to fine or punish HSBC for this. I can consider 
the effect this has had on Mr C and while I understand the process has frustrated him, I also 
think he has made the choice to continue to engage with this issue in detail which has 
prolonged the situation for all parties.
Ultimately, while I understand Mr C may not feel it is sufficient, had this complaint come to 
me with no offer of compensation, I would have recommended in the region of £750 for all of 
the issues Mr C faced. Because of this, I think the offer already made by HSBC is fair in the 
circumstances and I now direct it to pay this to Mr C.  My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Mr C £750 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr C £750 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman