DRN-2623551
The complaint
Mr Y complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has unfairly rejected his 
claim for a terminal illness.
 
What happened
In 1996 Mr Y took out a term assurance policy. Sadly, in November 2019, Mr Y was 
diagnosed with prostate cancer. In February 2020, he contacted Prudential to see if he could 
claim under his policy. Prudential sent him some information about his policy and what he 
could claim for. After reviewing that information, Mr Y made a claim under his policy for 
terminal illness in March 2020. 
Prudential reviewed Mr Ys claim but didnt accept it. Prudential sent Mr Y its decision in a 
letter via post despite Mr Y living abroad and corresponding with Prudential via e-mail. In the 
letter, Prudential said he hadnt met the definition of terminal illness because he hadnt been 
given a prognosis of less than twelve months to live. 
Mr Y was unhappy with this decision because it was different to the policy information he 
was sent in February 2020, so he made a complaint. He was also unhappy with the way his 
claim had been handled and with the poor quality of the terms and conditions he had been 
provided with. Prudential reviewed the complaint and sent a final response offering £1,000 
for the trouble and upset it had caused during the claim. But it said Mr Ys claim couldnt be 
accepted as he didnt meet the terminal illness definition. Mr Y remained unhappy, so he 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied the policy 
Prudential provided contained the correct terms and conditions. And after reviewing the 
document and medical evidence, he was satisfied Mr Y hadnt met the terminal illness 
definition. The investigator added that he felt the £1,000 Prudential had offered for the 
trouble and upset it had caused was fair. 
Mr Y disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said Prudential hadnt been able 
to provide a suitable copy of his terms and conditions, so it shouldnt be able to rely on the 
terminal illness exclusion here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing news for 
Mr Y, which is made worse given his current state of health. I want to assure him that I didnt 
take this decision lightly. I understand this is an incredibly difficult time for him. While I dont 
want to add to his distress, I cant say Prudential has treated him unfairly by declining his 
claim. Ill explain why. 
Mr Y said Prudential should honour his claim because it hasnt provided complete policy 
documents and previously hadnt mentioned that he needed a prognosis of less than twelve 
months in order to make a claim. Ive seen that the information Mr Y received wasnt the full 
terms and conditions like he asked for. And within the letter he was sent, it said he could 
claim under his policy if he was diagnosed with a terminal illness.
Unfortunately, Prudential hasnt been able to provide an original copy of Mr Ys policy which 
has his name and policy number on. But Im not satisfied that means a copy of the terms and 
conditions of his policy cant be considered when he makes a claim. Given the time that has 
passed since the policy started, its not unusual for all the documentation to no longer be 
available. And because this information isnt available doesnt mean the complaint should be 
upheld.
Ive considered the terms and conditions which Prudential have provided, so I can decide 
whether Prudential unfairly declined Mr Ys claim. And I note the terminal illness definition 
which says Mr Y must have a life expectancy of less than twelve months in order for the 
claim to be accepted. 
In November 2019 Mr Ys consultant told him there were treatment options available to him 
and his cancer could be controlled for several years at least. Prudential then wrote to his 
consultant and asked what his likely prognosis was. And the consultant confirmed it was 
longer than twelve months. Id like to reassure Mr Y its very common for a terminal illness 
definition to include a prognosis of less than twelve months. And although I understand that 
Mr Y has been given a terminal diagnosis, he hadnt met the other part of the definition when 
he made the claim. So, I cant ask Prudential to accept the claim here. 
Prudential has offered Mr Y £1,000 for the trouble and upset it has caused here. Its 
considered that Mr Y made a claim based upon the lack of information it provided to him in 
February 2020 and for sending its claims decision in the post. Ive carefully considered 
whats happened here. Having done so, Im satisfied the £1,000 Prudential has offered fairly 
reflects the trouble and upset it has caused and is in line with what Id expect in similar 
cases.
So, Im not going to ask Prudential to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman