DRN-3038312
The complaint
Ms W has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline her claim made 
under her home insurance policy for damage caused by a storm, and about the way it 
handled her claim.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Ms W has said that in August 2020, a storm resulted in rainwater coming through a bay 
window roof and into the lounge of her house, causing significant damage. The following day 
Ms W and her partner found that several tiles had been displaced.
Ms W reported the damage to Aviva, and it stated that its records showed there had been 
storm force winds. Aviva agreed that Ms W could arrange repairs to prevent further damage. 
Ms W says that Aviva told her she would be contacted again within 48 hours. When that did 
not occur, Ms W chased Aviva, also telling it that damage had been caused to the interior 
walls, carpet, curtains and a chair. She submitted some photos of the damage which had 
been taken for her own records, rather than for insurance purposes.
When Ms W heard nothing further from Aviva, she contacted a third time. She was then told 
that the claim was being declined on the basis that the damage was not caused by a one off 
storm event. Instead Avivas view was that it was caused by rising damp, and that this had 
been going on for some time. Aviva also stated that on the bay roof, there was no external 
rainwater pipe to the guttering, and there was no internal duct. Its view was that this lack of 
pipes allowing water to flow away represented a design fault.
Having commissioned a report from a damp proofing company, Ms W accepts that the 
affected room has a problem with damp. However, her view is that there is separate damage 
which was caused by the storm. Ms W is also unhappy that Aviva did not send someone to 
inspect the damage when it indicated that it would. Dissatisfied with Avivas handling of and 
decision on her claim, Ms W brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. Her view was that the evidence indicated the 
damage to Ms Ws home had happened over time, and was not the result of a one off storm. 
She concluded that Aviva had acted fairly when declining the claim. Although the 
investigator noted that Aviva had initially stated it would send a contractor to inspect the 
damage, her view was that such an inspection was unlikely to have altered the outcome on  
the claim, and on balance she didnt consider this merited compensation. She also didnt 
think Aviva should cover any cost incurred by Ms W in obtaining the report from the damp 
proofing company.
Ms W did not agree with the investigators findings. She said that in her view, there was no 
question that some of the damage at her home was caused by the storm. Ms W explained 
that when she reported the claim, Aviva had agreed that it would be beneficial to repair the 
bay roof to avoid further damage.
Ms W reiterated that she accepts the rising damp and damp spores were unconnected to the 
storm. She submitted the photos that included this damage to Aviva so that it had a full 
understanding of what damage was being claimed for under the policy. Ms W has said that 
she had never had to place buckets in the bay window area until the storm occurred. She 
also said that Aviva has at no point confirmed its stance on the claim that she made for 
contents.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W claimed under the cover provided by her policy for storm damage. When considering 
whether an insurer has fairly dealt with a storm claim, this service generally looks at the 
following questions: were there storm conditions at the time of the event claimed for; is the 
damage sustained consistent with storm damage; and was the identified storm the main 
cause of the damage? Where we conclude that all three apply, we would normally expect an 
insurer to cover the claim.
Having checked the weather records for the area in which Ms Ws home is located, Aviva 
agreed that there were storm force winds leading up to the time that Ms W claimed. And 
damage to roofs is consistent with what storm force winds can do. What I need to determine 
is whether these storm force winds were the main cause of the damage sustained to Ms Ws 
house.
Ms W accepts that some of the damage in her lounge was the result of rising damp, rather 
than storm, and she is not claiming for this. However, she states that there was distinct 
damage which was caused by the storm. This included damage that was higher up the 
lounge walls towards the ceiling level. Ms W says that there is a clear cut off point between 
the damage caused by storm, and that caused by rising damp.
Aviva initially stated that it would send someone to inspect the damage. This did not 
eventually happen, and instead Aviva appointed a contractor to assess the claim made 
based on photographs that Ms W had supplied.
Avivas contractors report commented that it considered the damage shown to the walls in 
the photographs had been ongoing for a long time, due to the presence of rot fibres. The 
contractor also stated that the level of plaster removal to the walls highlights that the issue 
is a rising damp problem rather than a storm issue. This is due to the removal of the plaster 
at low level rather than severe damage being more to the ceiling line as water ingresses 
through the roof. The conclusion reached by Avivas contractor was that the evidence did 
not show that a storm had caused any of the damage sustained.
Ms W arranged for a damp proofing company to inspect her property. It reported that a 
conductivity meter test gave patterns normally associated with penetrating damp caused by 
the recent storm damage to the front bay roof. It stated that this had caused the plaster 
around the roof level to become damp and perish. It also noted damage to the walls that it 
stated was probably due to the failure of the existing damp course.I have carefully considered the reports provided by Aviva and Ms W. I am mindful that 
Avivas contractor did not visit the property, but instead assessed the damage from 
photographs. However, its comments that the damage to the walls had been ongoing for a 
long time would seem to be consistent with the damp proofing companys observations that 
plaster down from the roof level had perished. On balance, based on both the reports noted 
above, it seems to me more likely than not that the damage to the walls, both at ceiling level 
and rising from the floor, had been on-going for a significant period of time. As a result, my 
view is that it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude that the damage to the walls was not due 
to the storm that occurred in August 2020.
Ms W also claimed for storm damage to contents that included her carpet, curtains and a 
chair. In response to the investigators assessment, she has stated that Aviva has never 
considered her contents claim. Like Ms W, I do not consider that Aviva made it clear what its 
stance on her contents claim was, and so I have asked it to clarify its position.
Aviva has responded to say that the contents claim was declined for the same reason as the 
buildings claim, this being that it considered the damage to the contents had been on going 
for some time, and was not caused by the storm. Overall, based on the evidence provided to 
date, my view is that it was reasonable for Aviva to decline the contents claim on this basis.
When Ms W initially made her claim, she stated that the storm had caused damage to tiles 
on the bay window roof. The photographs Ms W provided to Aviva, and which its contractor 
examined when assessing the claim, did not show the condition of the bay window roof after 
the storm. The photographs of the roof are after the repairs had commenced. Consequently, 
Aviva was not able to assess any damage caused to the roof by the storm.
I appreciate Ms W states that she was awaiting Aviva to appoint a contractor to visit her 
home to assess damage she was claiming for. However, I have looked at Avivas notes 
relating to one of the phone calls Ms W made when initially pursuing her claim. These state 
that Aviva asked her to take as many photographs that she could if her partner was going to 
complete repairs.
It doesnt seem that Ms W or her partner took photographs of the roof showing damage 
following the storm. Consequently, Aviva has been unable to determine whether there was 
any damage that the storm caused to the bay window roof. In the circumstances, I do not 
consider that I can reasonably require Aviva to cover this element of the claim.
It's agreed by both parties that there is damage in the lounge caused by rising damp. This is 
not the result of storm, or any other event covered by the policy, and so Aviva would not be 
liable to repair this damage. Ms W says that there was also specific damage in the lounge 
and on the bay roof caused by the storm. But taking into the account the comments made by 
both Avivas contractor and the damp proofing company, and the absence of photographs 
showing tiles on the bay window damaged by the storm, my view is that it has not been 
sufficiently demonstrated that a one off incident of storm caused damage to the buildings or 
contents in the home. 
I appreciate Ms W is likely to be disappointed with my provisional findings. However, based 
on the weight of evidence provided, my current view is that Aviva did not act unreasonably 
when it declined her claim for storm damage. I do consider that Aviva could have 
communicated better with Ms W during its handling of the claim, both in relation to whether it 
was going to send a contractor to inspect the property, and also relating to its assessment of 
the contents claim. But overall, my view is that this has not caused difficulties sufficient to 
merit the payment of compensation by Aviva.
Responses to my provisional decisionAviva did not respond to my provisional decision.
Ms W confirmed that she was unhappy with the outcome I had reached.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Ms Ws comment that she is unhappy with the provisional decision that I 
reached. However, I do not consider that I have reason to alter my findings as outlined in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman