DRN-2649377
The complaint
 Mr V complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited overcharged him for 
dames when he returned his car.
What happened
In March 2018 Mr V acquired a second-hand car which had covered 48,000 miles. It was 
part funded by a hire purchase agreement and was some five years old. He ended the 
agreement early when he lost his job and the car was collected in September 2020. MBFS 
charged him for damage to three alloy wheels. Mr V complained and said when he acquired 
the car it was described as condition as expected with stone chips on the windscreen and 
bodywork along with damage to the alloy wheels.
MBFS didnt agree but offered to reduce the charge by 15%. Mr V didnt think this fair so he 
brought his complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators who 
recommended it be upheld.
She explained that many in the industry follow the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) guide on Industry Fair Wear and Tear. We also follow this guidance 
and she had done so in considering this complaint.
She noted the inspection report which indicated there was rim damage to three alloy wheels. 
This showed two wheels had damage over 50mm and one wheel had damage less than 
50mm. However, she said the BVRLA guidelines are intended for cars that are bought from 
new.
This car was over seven years old and had done some 94,000 miles. The guidance is 
intended for new cars that are returned before or at the end of their first finance agreement.  
As such she didnt think it fair to apply the BVRLA guidelines. She said she hadnt seen any 
detail on the state of the wheels when Mr V acquired the car and it was quite possible they 
were damaged already.
MBFS didnt agree and said it didnt use BVRLA guidelines. It had judged the car by its own 
standards and Mr V had signed a contract that he would be bound by these. It didnt believe 
it reasonable to ignore its own standards. It said that no reasonable person would have 
accepted the car if the alloy wheels had been in the state they were when the car was 
handed back.
It added that when the car was returned by the original owner no charges had been levied 
for wheel damage which showed they were in good order when Mr V acquired it. It 
suggested Mr Vs testimony was biased.
Mr V said a new model would have cost some £50,000 and he was happy to accept a high 
mileage car with defects to allow him to drive something more prestige. He said the alloys 
were damaged and he had been prepared to pay half the sum sought by MBFS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I appreciate MBFS uses its own standards when judging the state of a car on its return. 
However, the BVRLA offers fair standards and it is used by this service to help us make our 
decisions.
The guide says that age and mileage are factors which need to be taken into account when 
considering what would be deemed fair wear and tear. This applies to all cars but older cars, 
or cars with higher mileage, might therefore require a slightly different application of the 
guide. This is because its likely the older or higher the mileage of a car the more reasonable 
wear and tear it will likely suffer. So, in cases where the car was older and/or with higher 
mileage we may apply a broader approach than whats explicitly set out in the BVRLA 
guidance. 
In this case the car was seven years old and had covered a significant mileage. As such it is 
reasonable to expect more marks and spots than one would in a much younger car. Having 
looked at the MBFS returns standards guide it appears to take no account of the age of the 
car. It states that alloy damage in excess of 50mm is chargeable. My role is to determine 
what is fair and reasonable and I consider that to do so greater leeway should be taken 
when dealing with a car of this age.
Its also worth noting that used cars may have already had some minor damage when 
acquired by the consumer. This would have likely impacted the price paid at the time. So, its 
important that we take all relevant factors into account, including the condition of the car 
when acquired, when considering what is fair and reasonable. Mr V says the car was 
damaged when he acquired it and certainly the price seems to have been reasonable given 
its age and mileage. That is reinforced by the comments by the dealer on its state.
I appreciate MBFS says no charges were made on the previous owner, though I have not 
seen the report on the car so I cannot say if the wheels were damaged. It doesnt 
necessarily follow that no change equates to no damage. However, while I accept Mr V has 
reason to say there was no damage, but nonetheless I find his consistent testimony to be 
credible. 
Therefore, on balance, I consider I should uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
 MBFS should forgo the proposed charge.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to forgo the charge of £330. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman