DRN-3026458
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was mis-sold a Flex Plus Account (FPA) in 2017 by Nationwide 
Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Mr H took out the FPA in 2017 transferring from a packaged bank account he had with 
another bank.
He says that when he tried to use the car breakdown service that was part of the FPA, he 
was refused service because of a restriction in the terms of the cover. He says he didnt 
know about this restriction and wouldnt have changed to the FPA if he had.
Nationwide says it did nothing wrong and he should take this up with the car breakdown 
service.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my first provisional decision both parties have now stated that Mr Hs 
vehicle was at his home residence when it broke down. So, all the previous arguments 
about a ten- mile limit or a quarter-mile limit that the parties have made are not relevant.
I can only look at the sale of the FPA, not the validity of the car breakdown insurance claim. 
The latter would need to be a separate case taken up with the insurance provider.
I agree with our adjudicators view that this was a non-advised sale as I cant see any 
evidence that Nationwide assessed Mr Hs circumstances or made a recommendation to
him. So Nationwide was only required to provide enough information for Mr H to make an 
informed decision whether he wanted to buy the FPA or not.
The FPA benefits included worldwide family travel and mobile phone insurance; UK and 
European breakdown and recovery assistance; a £250 fee free overdraft; and free overseas 
cash withdrawals.
Mr H was familiar with packaged bank accounts as hed previously had one with Barclays. 
And Nationwide was trying to sell him its competing account. So, I think its likely 
Nationwide provided Mr H with detailed information, and I think its more likely than not 
that Mr H wouldve asked for and read the summary welcome pack before he changed to 
the FPA.
Mr H has told us he travelled regularly and had a vehicle at the time of sale. So, I think 
its more likely than not that Mr H took out for the FPA for a range of its benefits 
including the vehicle cover.
Mr H says that he had bought a vehicle 5 days before his claim and it could only be 
repaired under warranty. So, he wanted the vehicle taken to the dealer who had sold it to 
him. But the dealer was at least 35 miles and a ferry journey away. The car breakdown 
service declined on the basis that this was not a local garage.
In my view the information provided by Nationwide makes it clear that for a vehicle that 
breaks down at home, the vehicle would only be taken to a local garage for repair.
So, I cant say that I think its more likely than not that Mr H was mis-informed about the 
cover at the time of sale. And while I know he will be disappointed by this, I dont think I 
can say the FPA was mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision above, Nationwide had nothing further to add. Mr D 
responded to say that he still maintains that the insurer provided him no cover at all.
As Ive mentioned above, the issue of what the insurer should or shouldnt have done is a 
matter which Mr H can only take up through a complaint with the insurer. This decision is 
about whether the FPA was mis-sold or not and my conclusions remain as outlined above in 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 
18 October 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman