DRN-3576539
Complaint
Miss J is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) registered a fraud 
prevention marker against her.
Background
In March 2021, Miss Js account received payments of £500 (x2), £600 and £400. The funds 
were immediately transferred on to a third-party crypto-currency account. 
NatWest subsequently received a notification from the bank responsible for sending the 
payments to Miss Js account stating the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of 
fraud. NatWest reviewed Miss Js account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to 
close Miss Js account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Miss J complained that this was applied 
unfairly. NatWest looked at Miss Js complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss J remained 
dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Js concerns. She didnt think that NatWest had 
done anything wrong or treated Miss J unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss J disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that NatWest has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss J is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that NatWest must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss Js account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
NatWest also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss J was deliberately dishonest 
in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
This can include Miss J allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Js complaint, I need to decide whether I think NatWest had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Js account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that NatWest did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss Js 
account in March 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Miss J was complicit in allowing her account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Miss J says the fraudulent funds entered her account without her knowledge. She said she 
doesnt know the person the funds came from and didnt know anything about the transfers 
to the crypto-currency account at the time either. The first she knew about these matters was 
when she tried to log in to her online banking the day after, saw her account was blocked 
and she also saw a message referring her to branch. Miss J also says that none of her card, 
or online banking login, details were shared with anyone else.
Ive thought about what Miss J has said. Miss J has speculated that the IP address of the 
location where the log on to her account to make the transfers is different to hers. This may 
or may not be the case but, even if it is, this doesnt change the fact that Miss Js correct 
credentials were used for all of the transactions in question. 
Miss J hasnt provided a plausible explanation as to how any opportunistic fraudster would 
have been able to obtain her details to login to her internet banking and set up the payee the 
funds were transferred to despite all of the security measures in place. So, in circumstances 
where Miss J is insistent her account details werent compromised, its difficult for me to see 
how an opportunistic third party would have been able to receive the payments and make 
the transfers in question without Miss Js cooperation.
Im afraid the implausibility of Miss Js version of events coupled with Miss J being unable to 
provide anything at all to corroborate what she says means that I cant reasonably conclude 
she was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not she was 
complicit in her account receiving fraudulent funds. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that NatWest did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss Js account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss J was complicit in this. As this 
is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for NatWest to record a fraud prevention marker in 
the circumstances that it did. And Im not upholding Miss Js complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss J. But even taking into account the impact 
Miss J says the marker is having on her, I cant ignore the fact that she appears to have 
been complicit in fraudulent activity. So I hope that Miss J will understand the reasons for my 
decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Miss J 
might find that shes able to open an account with another bank as long as she applies for a 
Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman