DRN-3826552
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was given unsuitable advice by True Potential Wealth Management 
LLP (TPWM) to transfer the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ps employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In September 2017, the DB scheme administrators sent Mr P information about his 
entitlement under his current DB scheme including a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
illustration. The CETV stated that Mr P had 19 years and 11 months of pensionable service 
in the DB scheme and that the total transfer value of his benefits was £245,723.33.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them three options; to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr P wasnt sure what to do about his pension so he contacted a financial adviser that 
referred him on to TPWM. A fact-find was completed to gather information about Mr Ps 
circumstances and objectives. It noted Mr P was aged 45, his wife was aged 46 and they 
had two dependent children aged 18 and 20. It also noted that Mr P earned £34,000 per 
year (or £2,100 net per month) and his wife earned £37,000 (or £2,400 net per month). Their 
home was documented as being valued at £135,000 with an outstanding mortgage of 
£79,000. In addition Mr P had a loan of around £4,000 and savings of £2,000. It was further 
noted Mr P and his employer were contributing 16% of his salary per month to his 
employers new defined-contribution (DC) pension scheme.
TPWM noted Mr P was hoping to retire at age 57 and that he had a balanced attitude to risk. 
Mr Ps objectives for transferring documented on the fact find were that he had lost faith with 
his employer and its pension schemes, that he had concerns about joining the PPF and that 
he wanted control over his pension, its death benefits and his pension commencement lump 
sum (PCLS). TPWM further noted that Mr P believed transferring his pension would ensure 
the value of his accrued pension would not be lost on his death and that he planned to utilise 
all his assets to generate a total retirement income of £24,000 per year until his latter 
retirement years where he expected his income needs to fall. 
On 15 November 2017, TPWM sent Mr P a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) and its 
suitability report in which it recommended that Mr P transfer his BSPS DB pension benefits 
to one of its own e-SIPPs. TPWM said this was so Mr P could benefit from the enhanced 
transfer value his employer was currently offering as well as meet his stated objectives. 
TPWM said the transfer would also give Mr P the option of a larger PCLS whether he took 
early retirement at age 57 or waited until age 65, along with the flexibility to control how his 
death benefits were paid, which, it said, would also be paid tax-free if he passed away 
before the age of 75. Mr P accepted this advice and £245,723.33 was transferred from his 
BSPS DB scheme to his new pension. 
 
In 2021 Mr P complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service about the advice he 
received, believing it may have been unsuitable for him. Mr P said he felt he may have been 
advised to move his pension pot incorrectly.
The complaint was passed to TPWM to investigate but it was unable to agree that it had 
done anything wrong. TPWM also said that it had provided Mr P with clear, detailed advice 
and had explained to him why it believed the transfer was the best solution for him to 
achieve his objectives of having flexibility in retirement, control over his pension and better 
death benefits.
Unhappy with TPWMs response, Mr P asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to 
investigate. One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and thought it should be 
upheld. He issued his findings in October 2022 which, in short, said he didnt think that 
TPWM had dealt with Mr P fairly or that its advice was suitable or in Mr Ps best interests. 
Our Investigator thought that TPWM should have advised Mr P to opt into the BSPS2 so he 
recommended that TPWM should calculate whether Mr P had suffered a loss as a result of 
its advice to transfer. The Investigator also recommended that TPWM should pay Mr P £250 
to address the distress and inconvenience caused by the receipt of its unsuitable advice. 
TPWM didnt agree with our Investigators assessment of the complaint. In January 2023, 
TPWM contacted our Investigator to advise that it was considering making a settlement offer 
to Mr P. In March 2023, TPWM wrote to Mr P to say that although it maintained the advice 
was suitable, and made no admission of liability, it had carried out a loss calculation as of 
1 January 2023. It said its actuaries had calculated that it owed Mr P redress of £2,739.83 
(net of any notional tax deduction) to which it would add a £250 payment for distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr P didnt accept TPWMs offer so, as the complaint was unresolved, it was referred for a 
final decision. 
In June 2023 TPWM told us that it would undertake a new calculation, using the regulators 
BSPS-specific calculator, to establish if Mr P had suffered a financial loss as a result of its 
advice. In August 2023 TPWM said it had completed the calculation and this showed Mr P 
hadn't suffered a loss. TPWM said it would still pay Mr P compensation of £250 as 
recommended by our Investigator.
As the complaint remained unresolved, it was passed to me for a final decision. Having 
considered the evidence, I asked TPWM if it would re-run the redress calculation as I was of 
the view that certain inputs had been omitted when the calculation was first carried out. 
TPWM agreed to re-run the calculation, inputting the information I had asked it to. On 
1 December 2023 TPWM said it had completed the calculation again and it showed that Mr P had not suffered a loss. TPWM again said it would still pay Mr P compensation of £250 
as recommended by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand TPWM is still disputing that it gave Mr P unsuitable advice. But nonetheless, in 
order to conclude the matter its already carried out loss calculations and has agreed to pay 
Mr P £250 for the distress and inconvenience as recommended by our Investigator. So 
I dont see the need to address the suitability of its advice to Mr P in detail. 
That said, I will comment that I agree with the Investigators view that the advice was 
unsuitable for broadly similar reasons. In particular Ive been mindful that the FCAs 
guidance for advising firms is that they should assume that a transfer from a DB scheme is 
unsuitable and they should only recommend one where they can clearly show that it was in 
the consumers best interests. I dont think that was the case for Mr P. Thats because, 
amongst other things: 
The growth rates required to match the benefits from the DB scheme, particularly if 
Mr P were to take early retirement, were not likely achievable. So I dont think Mr P 
was likely to be able to exceed his BSPS2 benefits at retirement by investing in line 
with his balanced attitude to risk. It clearly wasnt in Mr Ps best interests to give up 
the guarantees associated with his DB pension simply to achieve, at best, equivalent 
benefits at retirement. 
Mr P had little capacity for loss  this was his main pension so I dont think he could 
really tolerate the risk of transferring his DB pension.  
The difference in death benefits from a personal pension werent worth giving up the 
safeguarded benefits offered by the DB scheme for nor was it in Mr Ps best interests 
to do so. Thats especially the case as the both the BSPS2 and PPFs own death 
benefits were guaranteed and didnt rely on investment growth or how much was left 
in his pension pot at the date of his death. 
One of Mr Ps objectives was to take early retirement. He was aged 46 at the time of 
the advice, and while he thought he would retire early at age 57, this was around 11 
years away and so his plans couldve changed. It was too soon for Mr P to make an 
irreversible decision to transfer out of his DB scheme when he had the option of 
joining the BSPS2; by joining it he would retain the option to transfer out at a later 
date if his circumstances required it.  
Mr P had no defined objective for how he wished to spend his PCLS. So I cant agree 
it was in his best interests to transfer his safeguarded benefits to obtain a higher 
lump sum for a yet undefined purpose. 
Mr Ps desire for control over his pension was overstated, he was an inexperienced 
investor and would be reliant on professional advice going forwards. 
Mr P may have legitimately held concerns about his employer and the PPF, but it 
was TPWMs role to objectively address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all 
signs pointed toward the BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still 
provided Mr P with guaranteed income and a PCLS, and if he retired early, the 
benefits available to him may have exceeded those under the BSPS2. Mr P could still 
have achieved his retirement objectives even if his DB scheme moved to the PPF. 
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was in Mr Ps best interests to give up his DB 
scheme guarantees. And I also havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr P wouldve 
insisted on transferring against advice to remain in the DB scheme. So, Im upholding the 
complaint as I think the advice Mr P received from TPWM was unsuitable for him.I also agree with our Investigator that learning that he might have put his security in 
retirement at risk unnecessarily would have been a source of distress and inconvenience for 
Mr P. To address that I think its fair that TPWM pays him £250 compensation.
Putting things right
Ill focus in this decision on how to put things right for Mr P as no agreement could be 
reached.
The aim is to put Mr P back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the DB scheme. TPWM carried out a calculation using a specific BSPS 
calculator provided by the FCA which is what I would expect them to do in the 
circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to 
reflect the subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that were entered by TPWM which are personal to Mr P. These 
include Mr Ps personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he left the 
scheme and the value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if he had 
not been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the 
BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
The calculation in Mr Ps case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. So, Im satisfied that 
Mr P has not suffered a financial loss by transferring his pension.
TPWM has still offered to pay £250 as recommended by our investigator for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him.
Overall, I think the calculation carried out by TPWM is appropriate in the circumstances and 
no redress for financial losses is due to Mr P. I think TPWMs offer to pay Mr P £250 for the 
distress and worry he experienced as a result of realising he was unsuitably advised to move 
his DB scheme and that he could have suffered a financial loss as a consequence, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ive also thought about compensation awards that Ive 
made in complaints with similar circumstances and Im satisfied that this award is in line with 
those and with the Financial Ombudsman Services approach to compensation in general. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require True Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Mr P 
compensation of £250 for the worry he says this matter has caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman