DRN-3029133
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out alongside a credit card in 2002. Mr C says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)   
mis-sold him PPI.
  
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint.  And they said that, although Halifax 
says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made an offer 
as if it had.
Mr Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax didnt need to tell Mr C 
about the commission it received - but in any event Halifax has offered to pay back some of 
the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Halifax had to make it clear that Mr C had a choice in taking out the policy. Mr C has said 
he took out the policy over the phone and he was made to feel rushed and pressured 
into taking it. Halifax has evidenced that the policy was actually taken out in branch, at 
the same time as the credit card. Its understandable that Mr C cant recall exactly what 
happened at the time of the sale, considering the amount of time that has passed. 
I also dont think it is unreasonable that Halifax no longer has a copy of the actual credit 
agreement that Mr C signed. But it has been able to give me a sample agreement it says 
was in use at the time. On balance, I think its more likely this represents what Mr C 
would have seen at the time. This had a separate section for additional products and 
gave Mr C the option to tick a box to confirm he wanted the PPI. And I think it was 
equally clear he could have left the box blank if he didnt want the product. So, on 
balance, I think its more likely Mr C chose to take out the policy, knowing he didnt have 
to. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
And the evidence about Mr Cs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example, Mr C was eligible for the cover 
and he didnt have any means to fall back on if he was unable to work, so he had a need 
for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Cs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr C says he had a medical condition some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Halifax to have 
recommended it. I say this because, looking at the terms of the policy, it doesnt appear 
that the condition would have been excluded. Mr C has said the condition occurred 
around three years before the policy was taken out and hasnt mentioned the issues 
recurring. And the policy defines a pre-existing condition as something that Mr C 
received treatment for in the 12 months prior to the policy being taken out. In addition, as 
Mr C hasnt mentioned any ongoing or recurring issues in relation to the condition, it 
seems unlikely he would have expected to rely on the policy for claims relating to the 
condition. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr C as I concluded above, or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr C would have declined the 
cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think 
he would have still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr C would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Cs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but 
in any event Halifax has offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more 
it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr Cs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr C should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Mr C about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr C wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But in this case, Halifax has told us that the commission for Mr Cs PPI was less than half of 
what he paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this out and based 
on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr Cs case was less than half the 
cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipcommission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy.
I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mr C about the commission. So it follows that I dont think 
the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Halifax treated Mr C unfairly. 
This means Halifax doesnt need to pay Mr C back any of the commission he paid for the 
PPI. 
But in any event Halifax has offered to give back to Mr C some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Mr C as if it had treated him unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.  
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Cs complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission 
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr C paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. 
Halifax should now make arrangements to pay Mr C if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman