DRN-2700687
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the maturity value he received for the savings plan he invested in with 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). In particular, he thinks that Aviva took advantage 
of the Covid-19 pandemic to reduce bonuses.
What happened
Mr H had a with-profits endowment savings plan with Aviva for 25 years, it matured in May 
2020 with a value of approximately £28,600. 
Mr H received an estimated maturity value in April 2020 of approximately £31,000. Aviva say 
this wasnt a guaranteed figure and was based on December 2019 bonus rates. Mr H was 
unhappy and complained to Aviva. He waned to know why the value of his investment had 
fallen so much in such a short period of time. 
Aviva responded to say that at the end of April 2020 and prior to the maturity of this plan, an 
ad hoc review of all bonus rates was completed due to the recent fall in the investment 
markets due to the ongoing pandemic. They say that following this the bonus rate reduced 
from 33% to 23% and that this was the rate that applied to Mr Hs plan on maturity. 
Mr H remained unhappy. He didnt think it was fair that a sudden fall in markets should 
impact an investment that he had held for 25 years. He brought his complaint to our service 
for an independent review. 
An investigator looked into it but she didnt think it was one we could uphold. She said that 
the estimated value was never guaranteed and that the maturity value was estimated 
correctly, fairly and in line with policy terms and conditions. 
Mr H remained of the view that Aviva was using the pandemic to increase profits. He said 
that other companies hadnt lowered bonus rates like Aviva. As he didnt agree, the case has 
been passed to me to reach a decision on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, can I empathise with Mr H and the situation he found himself in. He was obviously 
expecting a much larger maturity figure than he received and may have even had plans for 
the higher figure. It was obviously a shock, which can be seen by Mr H complaining as soon 
as the final figure was revealed. However, just because he was expecting more, doesnt 
mean Aviva have necessarily done anything wrong. 
I have been provided with a breakdown of the final figure and how it was calculated. This 
includes the figures and the percentages for the bonus rates. Having reviewed this, I am 
satisfied that the figure has been calculated correctly, using the rates provided. 
Mr H has said that he doesnt think its fair that the value could fall so much from the 
estimate given about six weeks earlier. He also didnt think it was fair that bonus rates could 
reduce so much, based on a sudden fall in the markets, when he has had the investment in 
place for 25 years. However, whilst I understand it wont feel fair to Mr H, this is ultimately 
how final bonus rates work and what can happen when markets fall. 
The estimated figure in April 2020 was based on the 2019 bonus rate and not guaranteed. 
As Aviva said in a with-profits customer newsletter sent on 6 May 2020, the outbreak of the 
Coronavirus (Covid-19) over the first three months of 2020 had caused the fastest decline in 
equity markets on record. As such, Aviva were entitled to make a legitimate business 
decision to try and smooth the effects of this turmoil. One of these steps was to review and 
ultimately reduce final bonus rates, by in Mr Hs case approximately 10%. 
The fund was managed to try and get the best returns possible. It was in no-ones interests 
for the fund to do badly. In other words, the success of the business and the individual 
managers involved will, to some extent, rely on them investing to get the best possible 
returns. Unfortunately, the simple fact is that the fund value dropped in the period just before 
Mr Hs policy was due to mature. 
While Mr Hs maturity value was affected by the turbulence in early 2020 I havent seen any 
evidence that Aviva did anything wrong or that the value paid was incorrect.
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman