DRN-3303423
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the transfer of his stocks and shares ISA from the transferor 
company  which I shall refer to as Company B in my decision  to Financial Administration 
Services Limited (Fidelity). Mr W says the transfer was delayed, assets went missing, and 
he wasnt able to trade. 
What happened
Mr W requested that Fidelity arrange for his ISA to be transferred from Company B to its 
platform on 14 October 2020. The transfer took much longer than expected during which 
time Mr W chased for updates and became so alarmed that shares and cash were missing 
he made a report to the police and complained to Fidelity.
On 5 March 2021 Fidelity responded to Mr W. It said;
It apologised for the delay in responding to him and arranged for £25 to be paid into 
Mr Ws bank account as it wasnt the standard of service Mr W should expect.
After it had sent its valuation request to Company B in October it didnt hear back 
until 19 January 2021 and it acknowledged it should have chased for this every ten 
days. It paid £50 to Mr Ws bank account because of this.
Six investments had settled in Mr Ws account in February 2021  the delays caused 
by it having to call the underlying fund managers  and it was in the process of 
settling the four outstanding funds and cash to his account. 
It said any loss Mr W said he suffered during the time of transfer was a hypothetical 
loss.
On 24 May 2021 Mr W was offered a further £150 for the lack of updates he received in 
relation to the four outstanding investments but was told the transfer was complete. Again, 
Fidelity did not agree to compensate for any loss which it said was hypothetical. 
Unhappy with the outcome Mr W brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator who 
considered the complaint didnt think Fidelity had acted unreasonably:
They didnt agree that Fidelity had skimmed off any funds. The transfers were made 
in-specie and any losses Mr W may have incurred were caused by movements in 
the stock market. 
Fidelity had accepted it didnt chase Company B as it should have done but to some 
extent Fidelity was reliant upon Company B and the individual fund managers, so 
Fidelity wasnt wholly to blame for the delays. 
The investigator recognised the stress caused to Mr W for the time taken to transfer 
the investments but didnt accept that Mr W was unable to trade. They thought that 
the total compensation amount of £200 for the delays was reasonable.
Mr W had been paid £25 for the delayed complaint handling but this wasnt 
something the investigator or this service could consider as complaint handling 
wasnt a regulated activity.
They thought the phone call and subsequent email of 19 March 2021 to which Mr W 
had referred was simply asking for clarification rather than saying that the remaining 
funds were missing. They didnt think Mr W had fully understood the email.
Mr W disagreed with the investigator. In his response he said:
When an investment is transferred in-specie, and during that process became 
unaccounted for by Fidelity, it was impossible to access those investments and, by 
definition, the customer is financially disadvantaged. He couldnt trade.
He had been concerned about losing the underlying funds  he was told by phone on 
16 March 2021 that there was no record of the four outstanding funds.
He had been misinformed the ISA had been transferred as evidenced by a 
screenshot of 11 March 2021 of his account showing zero days to completion.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Delays in the ISA transfer
Fidelity advertised that an ISA transferring onto its platform would complete in six weeks. 
HMRC guidelines are that non-cash ISA transfers, like Mr Ws, should take place within 30 
calendar days. 
Mr W requested the transfer from his then current platform of his ISA on 14 October 2020 so 
to be within Fidelitys own timeframe the transfer should have completed by 25 November. 
But the transfer did not fully complete until 10 April 2021, a total of six months. 
Fidelity has accepted that it did not chase Company B every ten days for a response  after 
its initial valuation request sent on 14 October 2020  which it should have done. In 
recognition of this delay it has offered Mr W £200 in total. 
Fidelity did eventually receive the valuation from Company B on 19 January 2021 and as a 
result requested that the ISA transfer take place.
Fidelitys records show that the ten collective investments held within the ISA were received 
by Fidelity on:
three on 19 February 2021
three on 25 February 2021
one on 24 March 2021
two on 25 March 2021
one on 10 April 2021
After the initial delay caused by Fidelity not chasing Company B for the ISA valuation 
(between 14 October 2020 and 19 January 2021) the first six transfers were completed in a 
relatively short timeframe  four/five weeks after Fidelity had instructed Company B that the 
ISA transfer should take place. For the four investments that werent transferred until March/April Fidelity has confirmed 
what action it took to expediate those transfers. In each case Fidelity had to contact the 
underlying fund managers on several occasions, either by phone or email until the transfers 
completed.
While I appreciate the onus was on Fidelity to ensure the transfer was processed within the 
timeframe, after its initial failure to chase Company B for the valuation, it was, to a certain 
extent, reliant on both Company B and the underlying fund managers in complying with its 
request. 
So, while I recognise Mr Ws considerable and understandable frustration with the time taken 
to complete the transfer, I think what Fidelity has offered to Mr W in recognition of this is fair. 
It accepted it should have chased for a valuation from Company B at the outset of the 
transfer and has offered £200 for this failure. The first six transfers were completed within 
four/five weeks after that and for the final four transfers, Fidelity was reliant upon the 
underlying fund managers complying with its request and chasers. 
The cash held within the ISA
On 8 February 2021 Company B sent Mr W confirmation of a BACS transfer of £1,878.32. It 
said the funds should be in his account within three working days. This was followed up by 
two further BACS confirmations  £36.55 on 15 February 2021 and £1,972.24 on 8 March 
2021. 
The reconciliation of the account from Fidelity shows that £1,972.24 was credited to his 
account on 15 March 2021 but no reference for the other two payments. We asked Fidelity 
about this who confirmed the figures didnt form part of the valuation Company B shared at 
the outset with respect to the transfer. 
We asked Fidelity for further information and it later confirmed that the payments were 
returned to the remitter on 24 February and 5 March 2021 because of an invalid instruction 
reference.  
I dont know what those two payments were for and whether they were made in error, but  
Mr W checked this with Company B who confirmed their return, and he is dealing with 
Company B separately about this. 
So, Im satisfied the correct amount of cash was transferred to Mr Ws Fidelity account as 
per the valuation provided by Company B. 
The information and service received by Mr W
Mr W was in contact with Fidelity on several occasions to chase for the ISA transfer and 
updates about what was happening. On 16 March 2021 he asked about the four missing 
investments and three cash payments Ive referred to above. In response Mr W received an 
email from Fidelity at 07.14am on 19 March 2021. In that email the Fidelity representative 
confirmed:
We have received only £1,972.74 as cash for this a/c and this has been invested in 
the clients a/c. Please confirm what are the other 2 payments you have sent us for 
this a/c.
Also, we liaised with fund managers and they have not received your instructions and 
these units are not even failed reconciliations at our end.Please confirm deal reference and date of rereg [which I understand to mean re-
registration] for all the remaining funds.
At 07.17am on 19 March 2021 a follow up email was sent to Mr W by the same Fidelity 
representative which said:
Hi,
Request you to ignore this email.
This email ID is for counterparties use only.
So, while undoubtedly the first email would have caused Mr W considerable concern about 
the whereabouts of his investments and the two additional cash payments of £1,878.32 and 
£36.55, I think its likely that this message wasnt meant for Mr W. It was meant for 
reconciliation with Company B as evidenced by its content and the follow up email sent three 
minutes after the first one. 
However, I do recognise that it would still have caused Mr W alarm about what he thought 
were missing funds. But I think the email was chasing for registration details of the four 
outstanding funds and seeking clarification of the cash payments from Company B rather 
than identifying the investments and cash payments as missing. 
Mr Ws inability to trade
Mr W has said he didnt know where the investments were at any time and from what he had 
understood, he thought some had gone missing, so he wasnt in a position to carry out any 
trades. 
After the initial delay  and when those investments would still have been shown on 
Company Bs account as they hadnt been moved yet  which Fidelity has acknowledged 
and offered payment for, six of those investments were transferred within Fidelitys own 
timeframes and I note that Mr W did carry out trades shortly after their receipt. 
And for the remaining four, and as Ive said above, Fidelity has evidenced that it chased 
Company B and the four respective fund managers to speed up those transfers. So, it 
carried out the appropriate action that would be expected while it was reliant on the actions 
of other parties.
Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Mr W was trying to make a specific trade on the four 
delayed investments and was prevented from doing so by the transfer issues caused by 
Fidelity. And I cant reasonably award redress based on hypothetical losses. In this instance 
Im not persuaded that Mr W is entitled to redress (for losses claimed) just because he 
experienced issues with the transfer of his holdings, the initial delay for which Fidelity has 
accepted responsibility. And Mr W could have used the phone if he had wanted to and Im 
satisfied this is a reasonable alternative to the online service. 
Putting the matter right
In total Fidelity has offered or paid the following:
5 March 2021 - £25 payment for the delayed complaint handling.
5 March 2021 - £50 payment as Fidelity didnt chase company B every ten 
days for a response to its valuation request.24 May 2021 - Offer of an additional £150 for not chasing Company B every 
ten days.
So, in total £25 for the delay in the complaint being handled and £200 for the ISA transfer 
delay. 
£200 is a typical amount that I would award for similar complaints about ISA transfer delays 
and while taking into account the particular circumstances of Mr Ws complaint, I think it is a 
fair and reasonable offer and reflects the impact of the failures that Mr W experienced during 
the transfer process. 
Taking everything into account, I think the offer already made by Fidelity for the delays Mr W 
has experienced when transferring his ISA account is fair and I wont be making any 
additional award.
I know Mr W feels strongly about his complaint, but I hope I have been able to explain how 
and why I have reached this decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint and make no further award than has already been offered or 
paid by Financial Administration Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman