DRN-3607332
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about how Great Lakes Insurance SE settled a claim they made 
under their travel insurance policy for a partial refund of the cost of flights after they were 
prevented from travelling abroad. 
 
What happened
On 13 October 2021, Mr and Mrs R purchased flights abroad costing almost £2200. They 
were due to travel from the UK to their intended travel destination on 28 November 2021 and 
return on 15 December 2021.
After booking their flights, Mr and Mrs R purchased an annual-multi trip travel insurance 
policy, provided by Great Lakes. This policy was purchased on 24 November 2021, to cover 
worldwide trips of up to 31 days duration. Mr and Mrs R paid £363.73 including Insurance 
Premium Tax (IPT) for the standard level of annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which 
also covered them for a number of declared medical conditions. 
On 26 November 2021, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel to Mr and Mrs Rs destination country in response to developments of the 
covid-19 pandemic. Mr and Mrs R cancelled their flights and were able to secure a refund of 
£524.08 from their airline. But they remained out of pocket in the sum of £1658. So, they 
claimed under their travel insurance policy for a refund of their outstanding loss.
Great Lakes rejected Mr and Mrs Rs claim stating that it had arisen from government 
restrictions. It argued that Mr and Mrs Rs flights therefore hadnt been cancelled because of 
an insured event under their policy. So, it said no refund was due. 
Being unhappy with Great Lakes repudiation decision Mr and Mrs R complained. They 
argued that, as their flights had been booked well before their travel destination had been 
placed on the red list, they were entitled to claim a refund of the outstanding flight costs 
under their policy. 
Great Lakes investigated Mr and Mrs Rs complaint but it didnt uphold it. It stated that its 
repudiation decision had been correctly reached and maintained that Mr and Mrs R werent 
entitled to a refund under the terms of their policy.
Mr and Mrs R werent satisfied with Great Lakes response to their complaint. So, they 
complained to our service. Their complaint was considered by our investigator, who 
acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. They set out the 
details of the relevant policy terms and conditions and how they applied in the circumstances 
of this case. And they didnt recommend upholding this complaint as they thought Great 
Lakes had acted fairly and reasonably. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Mr and Mrs R didnt. 
They requested an ombudsmans assessment. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a 
fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service is impartial, we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint, and we dont regulate or punish businesses. 
Id like to thank Mr and Mrs R and Great Lakes for the level of detail contained within their 
submissions. Ive read and considered all the information provided and, if I havent 
specifically referred to a point that Mr and Mrs R or Great Lakes have made it isnt because I 
havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are the key issues, which is an 
approach that reflects the informal nature of this service.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr and Mrs R experienced here. I recognise that they 
couldnt travel abroad as theyd wanted and incurred a loss due to circumstances beyond 
their control. I know they feel very strongly about this matter and I appreciate the reasons 
theyve brought their complaint to our service. But, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs R, the 
issue that I must determine is whether I think Great Lakes made a mistake, or treated them 
unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. In thinking about this, Ive considered 
things from both sides. 
Cover under Mr and Mrs Rs policy commenced on 24 November 2021, which is confirmed 
by the insurance documentation they received. This was two days prior to the date that non-
essential travel to Mr and Mrs Rs intended travel destination was precluded due to the 
Coronavirus pandemic. 
Mr and Mrs Rs havent informed our service that they didnt receive their travel insurance 
documentation following their policy purchased. Im therefore satisfied they were reasonably 
made aware of the terms that applied to their policy, which are typical of the terms found in 
most travel insurance policies.
Ive had sight of evidence, which Mr and Mrs R have provided, confirming that they 
purchased their flights abroad on 13 October 2021, which was prior to the public 
announcement that non-essential travel to their intended destination was to be precluded. 
This therefore satisfies me that, when Mr and Mrs R purchased their flights, they held a 
reasonable expectation that theyd be able to travel.
Ive also seen evidence confirming that Mr and Mrs R cancelled their flights on 26 November 
2021 and were able to obtain a refund of £524.08. So, I can see they acted proactively and 
mitigated their loss. 
In thinking about whether Great Lakes acted fairly in repudiating Mr and Mrs Rs claim for 
£1658, which is the proportion of their flight costs they havent been able to recover, Ive 
carefully considered the policy documentation that Great Lakes made available to Mr and 
Mrs R following the inception of their policy. Having done so, Im satisfied that the 
information about what is included and excluded under the policy is clear and not 
misleading. Ill explain why.
The policy terms provide covid-19 cover in a number of limited and specified circumstances. 
These include cancellation, curtailment and emergency medical and repatriation expenses 
and the specifics are set out comprehensively and in detail on page 89 of the policy booklet.Here, Mr and Mrs Rs flights were cancelled. So, for a cancellation claim to be successful, 
the onus is on Mr and Mrs R to show that their flights were cancelled as a result of the 
circumstances stipulated in their policy.
The policy clearly outlines that cancellation cover only applies in two specified scenarios. 
These situations are either where the policyholder, relative, household member, travelling 
companion or individual providing accommodation at the intended destination has a 
medically confirmed diagnosis of Covid-19 within 14 days of the booked departure date or 
where a policyholder is denied boarding due to contracting covid-19 as confirmed by a 
medical practitioner. The policy goes on to explain what costs are recoverable if either of 
these two scenarios apply.
As I set out in the background to this complaint, Mr and Mrs Rs flights were cancelled due to 
FCO guidance that non-essential travel to their intended travel destination was precluded. 
This doesnt, unfortunately, fall under either of the two scenarios covered by the cancellation 
section of Mr and Mrs Rs travel insurance policy. So, I cant say Great Lakes acted 
unreasonably in informing Mr and Mrs R that a country being added to a red list isnt covered 
under a cancellation claim.
The policy sets out a number of exclusion clauses that apply to claims made under the 
cancellation, curtailment and emergency medical and repatriation expenses section. I can 
see these exclusions were quoted in correspondence to Mr and Mrs R about their claim. 
They refer, for example, to claims being excluded if they arise from an outbreak of covid-19 
resulting in a national or local lockdown or any restrictions of movement affecting a 
policyholders travel destination if they exist, or were publicly announced, by the date the 
policy was purchased.
Ive already explained that Mr and Mrs R purchased their flights and insurance policy prior to 
travel to their intended destination being precluded. This exclusion therefore doesnt apply to 
their claim. However, for the reasons Ive set out above, they arent able to bring a valid 
claim under the cancellation section of their policy.
Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs R are able to bring a claim under any other section of 
their policy. However, their flights werent cancelled as a result of an insured event under the 
terms of their policy. So, I cant direct Great Lakes to settle this claim in Mr and Mrs Rs 
favour under any other section of their policy. 
I know that Mr and Mrs R will be disappointed by this decision. But I havent seen enough 
evidence to persuade me to uphold this complaint. Im not satisfied that Great Lakes acted 
unfairly. So, I wont be directing it to do anything else to resolve this complaint. 
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr and Mrs Rs dispute with Great 
Lakes informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant help Mr and Mrs R any further with this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman