DRN-2936075
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as C has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly turned down 
its business interruption insurance claim after it was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr B, a director of C, has brought the complaint on Cs behalf.
What happened
C held a business interruption insurance policy with AXA. It claimed on its policy after being 
affected by the the Governments actions in response to Covid-19. 
 
AXA said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of an infectious 
and/or contagious disease occurring at the premises, Cs business was interrupted as a 
result of the Government Act in response to the national pandemic. So, AXA turned down 
Cs claim.
 
C was unhappy with AXAs response and brought its complaint to our service.
 
Our investigator looked into Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
AXA had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He 
thought the policy would only cover business interruption due to Covid-19 if there had been a 
case at the premises. And as C hadnt indicated that there had been a case of Covid-19 at 
the premises, the claim wasnt covered.  
 
C didnt think this was a fair outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
C, but I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if AXA have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Cs claim.  
 
The most relevant part of Cs policy covers business interruption as a result of an occurrence 
of: 
Contagious and/or Infectious Diseases occurring at the PREMISES excluding 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition
  
Covid-19 is an infectious or contagious disease but I dont think this term covers Cs claim. I 
say that because the policy requires the loss to have been the result of a case of the disease 
occurring at the premises. However, C hasnt indicated that there was a case of Covid-19 at 
the premises.  
 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for but, having considered this matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask AXA to pay Cs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman