DRN-2321323
The complaint
Mr L complains that NRAM Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably regarding the 
outstanding balance on his mortgage portfolio and its use of an all monies clause. He 
wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr L had a buy to let interest only mortgage portfolio with NRAM, containing two properties, 
and his former family home was also mortgaged with NRAM. Mr L was selling his former 
family home in 2019 and was sent a redemption statement by NRAM. But NRAM said two 
weeks later Mr L had to pay all the sale proceeds to it as it had an all monies charge and 
wanted to use the surplus to reduce the debt owed for the two buy to let properties in the 
portfolio. 
An all monies charge is a way for a lender to secure all debts its owed over all assets, and 
buy to let mortgages are generally seen as a commercial loan, but there are exceptions  
former family homes rented out are not commercial buy to loan mortgages, but consumer 
buy to let mortgages.
Mr L said that there was no all monies charge in respect of the mortgage for his former 
family home. He was told that NRAM wouldnt release its security unless he paid the entire 
sale proceeds to it, so the sale proceeded on this basis and Mr L complained. He said 
NRAM delayed too long before dealing with the issue.
NRAM refunded £6218.65 used to reduce the debt on one property, but not the £2456.67 
used to reduce the debt on the other property as it said the loan to value ratio (the amount 
borrowed compared to the value of the property) was too high. NRAM said Mr L was bound 
by the all monies charge in the mortgage terms and conditions, while Mr L said NRAM was 
acting unreasonably as he had over seven years left to pay the mortgages and wasnt in 
arrears. NRAM offered to pay £7.63 as interest on the amount it refunded due to delay and 
£50 compensation for trouble and upset due to delays, but Mr L thought interest should be 
calculated from the date NRAM received the sale proceeds.
Mr L complained to us and explained that NRAMs conduct in taking the sale proceeds 
meant hed been unable to move into a rented property as planned and had paid £165 for 
storage. He added that if hed been told earlier about NRAMs position, he wouldnt have 
sold the former family home. Mr L also thought NRAM shouldve told him about its decision 
to take all the money earlier than three days before completion.
The investigators view was that NRAM was able to rely on the all monies clause as it was 
part of the terms and conditions accepted by Mr L. But she said that it shouldve told Mr L its 
position about the requirement to pay all the sale proceeds to NRAM much sooner when it 
sent the redemption statement in early October 2019, rather than two weeks later. The 
investigator said Mr L didnt have to be in arrears for NRAM to be able to rely on the all 
monies clause and it was able to keep all the sale proceeds. NRAMs offer to refund some 
was fair and reasonable in her view. 
But the investigator thought that NRAMs failure to tell Mr L earlier when it sent the 
redemption statement about the all monies clause and its effect caused him trouble and 
upset as he wouldve been in a better position to decide how to proceed and was forced to 
change his accommodation plans at the last minute and put possessions into storage. The 
investigator said NRAM should pay £165 plus interest for the storage costs and another 
£100 compensation on top of the £57.63 already offered.
NRAM disagreed. It said that Mr L shouldve been aware of the all monies charge throughout 
as it was in the terms and conditions of his mortgage. NRAM accepted that it couldve told 
Mr L sooner about the all monies charge when he notified it of his intention to sell the 
property but it repeated its first point that he shouldve known about it anyway. It offered an 
extra £50 compensation on top of the £57.63 already offered. 
The investigator didnt change her view and said NRAM shouldve pointed out the all monies 
charge when it sent the redemption statement as it was more familiar with the clause than 
Mr L and redemptions statements were relied upon by customers. She added that it seemed 
NRAM had spent two weeks deciding whether to enforce the clause, and while it did so, the 
sale progressed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All monies charge
Ive read the various terms and conditions that apply to Mr Ls mortgaged properties, 
including his former family home. Im satisfied that NRAM does have an all monies charge 
and legally was entitled to apply it. It didnt matter that Mr L wasnt in arrears. The all monies 
charge can be found in the following terms and conditions:
mortgage debt means: (a) all of the money you owe us from time to time under any offer, 
and mortgage including any unpaid interest, costs and fees; (b) if there is only one of you, all 
other money you owe us from time to time (the underlined section is my emphasis)
 "mortgage" means the mortgage deed (or, in the case of a Property in Scotland - the 
standard security) by which the Offer Debt is to be secured under condition 4 or where the 
context so applies the Loan and any other monies we have lent you (the underlined section 
is my emphasis)
The Offer Debt must be secured by a first legal mortgage or charge (or, in the case of a 
property in Scotland, a first ranking standard security) over the Property described in the 
Offer. The mortgage (or standard security) will secure repayment of the Offer Debt (and any 
other money you owe us from time to time under this Offer or any other offer or offers) (the 
underlined section is my emphasis)
But this isnt the end of the matter as I have to consider whether it was fair and reasonable 
for NRAM to apply the all monies clause in the circumstances. I think that it was, but only in 
part. The buy to let properties (excluding the former family home) were commercial loans. 
Mr L had previously been sequestrated (Scottish bankruptcy), but was asked to show that he 
had been discharged, which he did.
A critical point was the loan to value ratio for the two commercial buy to let properties. One 
property had a higher loan to value ratio than NRAMs current lending policies accepted and 
triggered the requirement to pay all the monies owed. NRAMs decision to rely on the all monies clause was in my view fair and reasonable, but I also think its decision to review the 
matter after speaking to Mr L (which always wouldve taken time) was fair and reasonable 
and led to the partial refund. I also think the interest offered to reflect the unnecessary delay 
is fair and reasonable. I dont think Mr L is entitled to interest from the date of payment as 
NRAM was entitled to require the money was paid to it.
And its worth remembering that NRAMs initial position was to offer not to rely on the all 
monies clause and require payment in full, but to accept the full sale proceeds from the 
former family home instead. NRAM never sought to fully enforce the all monies clause, 
which again is a fair and reasonable position in my view.
The timing of NRAMs notification to Mr L
I accept that some of Mr Ls loans were commercial in nature and its fair and reasonable to 
expect a businessperson to have read the terms and conditions of such loans and take 
advice as to their meaning. But Mr Ls former family home was not of the same nature.
Redemption statements are designed to be relied upon by those receiving them to 
understand what is required for a lender to release their security over a property. NRAM in 
my view unfairly and unreasonably failed to warn Mr L that the statement mightnt be fully 
accurate as the all monies charge might affect the position. 
Mr L doesnt know when missives were exchanged and told the investigator that he chose to 
proceed after NRAM told him he had to pay all the sale proceeds to it as he felt sorry for the 
buyers and had incurred fees. How someone acted in response to a notification is often a 
good indicator of how they wouldve acted if theyd known sooner; Mr L chose to proceed not 
having checked if missives had been exchanged and hed incurred fees by the time the 
redemption statement was issued. I think its more likely than not that he wouldve 
proceeded if NRAM had notified him of the all monies clause earlier.
But the delay in telling Mr L in my view did reduce his room for manoeuvre. For example, he 
had intended to use the surplus from the sale proceeds to rent a new property and was 
unable to do so until the situation was resolved and he knew the final outcome of his 
discussions with NRAM. Mr L had to place possessions in storage as a result. In the two 
weeks between the redemption statement being sent and NRAMs notification, Mr L couldve 
found a cheaper property or made other arrangements. He also couldve had the discussion 
with NRAM about the matter earlier.
Money never truly compensates for trouble and upset but I dont think the original £50 or the 
extra £50 offered by NRAM in response to the investigators view is enough. Mr L had to 
change his living arrangements and delay renting his new home; Ive no doubt that this 
caused him stress and frustration, even though relatives were able to help. He also had to 
move twice as a result. I think the fair and reasonable outcome is that an additional £100 is 
paid on top of the original offer.
Putting things right
NRAM should pay Mr L the £165 storage costs together with 8% simple interest a year from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement. In addition, it should pay an additional £100 to 
the £57.63 already offered for interest on the refund and trouble and upset suffered due to 
NRAMs late notification of the all monies clause.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and NRAM Limited should pay Mr L £165 plus interest as outlined above and a total of £157.63 compensation for trouble and upset 
and interest on the delayed refund (including the previous £57.63 offered). Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision 
before 19 February 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman