DRN-2955117
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc allowed a fraudster to take out a current account out 
in his name without his consent. And hed like compensation for the impact caused. 
What happened
Mr B has a current account and an ISA with Santander. 
On the 26 October 2019 a fraudster applied for a current account with Santander using 
Mr Bs personal details  including his correct date of birth and home address. However, 
they provided a different email and phone number. 
Santander explained they sent an email to Mr Bs current email address to advise him that 
different contact details had been used. After opening the new current account new online 
banking details were sent to Mr Bs home address by post. 
On the 1 November 2019 the fraudster called Santander to advise the bank that they 
couldnt access online banking. The bank took the third party through security which they 
werent able to pass however at a later point the fraudster gained access to Mr Bs debit card 
and subsequently his online banking. 
After gaining access to Mr Bs online banking the fraudster closed Mr Bs ISA and 
transferred all the funds to his fraudulent current account, along with all the funds from his 
genuine current account. The fraudster also applied for fraudulent loans with third party 
banks which credited Mr Bs account. 
On the 8 November 2019 Mr B phoned Santander in response to a text message he 
received notifying him of unusual activity. On contacting the bank Santander identified the 
fraud, and asked Mr B to visit the local branch to confirm his identify. 
The bank closed the fraudulent account and returned Mr Bs funds to his genuine current 
account. They also reopened Mr Bs ISA and credited his funds.
 
Mr B complained to the bank that theyd allowed the fraud to take place when they should 
have identified a number of different concerns. He advised that hed never used online 
banking and already had an interest paying current account so why would he have applied 
for a non-interest paying one? And they shouldnt have waited 13 days before contacting 
him. Mr B argued that Santander had caused him significant stress and inconvenience.
Santander looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary they explained they 
were sorry for Mr Bs distress at the fraud occurring however the bank hadnt made any 
errors in allowing the account to be opened and the fraud to take place.
Mr B didnt accept Santanders response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary they 
thought that Santander hadnt made any errors in allowing the account to be opened and the 
fraud to take place. 
Mr B wasnt happy with our investigators response. In summary he thought that because of 
the red flags his personal manager should have contacted him to question the application. 
And therefore the fraud would have been prevented. 
As Mr B didnt accept our investigators view its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts and the evidence presented 
by both parties. Both Mr B and Santander have read the investigators view. So, I wont 
repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can 
assure Mr B that Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence. 
Mr B hasnt lost out financially here  so I wont be considering any refund of the disputed 
transactions carried out on his account because these have been returned to Mr Bs genuine 
accounts. And his ISA reopened. Instead Mr Bs complaint centres on Santanders failure to 
identify that the application was fraudulent and contact Mr B to notify him.
Ive considered Mr Bs overall argument, that Santander should have done more here. But, 
Im afraid I dont agree and Ill explain why below. Ive been provided with a copy of the 
application the fraudster made to Santander when opening the fraudulent account  and I 
can see that Mr Bs correct date of birth and home address was used. I therefore dont think 
this would have raised any concerns with the bank. However, I note that both a different 
mobile phone number and email were used for the application. 
Santander have provided evidence to show that an email was sent to Mr Bs old email 
address to confirm the new contact details. I understand that Mr B says he didnt receive this 
 and I fully accept his account. However the evidence Ive seen from Santander 
demonstrates it was more likely than not sent. 
I appreciate that Mr B has explained he thinks his personal manager should have phoned 
him  because of the red flags hes highlighted. Hes first highlighted the application 
submitted online and how unusual this would be for him. I understand his argument that he 
doesnt use online banking, however I dont think an online application  with the correct 
personal details provided  would be sufficient to trigger Santanders fraud detection system. 
Ive briefly considered whether an application for a non-interest paying account would also 
raise concerns with Santander  but I cant see why this would be the case.
 
Ive listened to the first call the fraudster made to Santander. And its clear the fraudster 
wasnt able to pass security. Im satisfied that the bank successfully prevented the fraudster 
gaining access to Mr Bs accounts  which is what Id expect them to do here.  I note in the 
call the fraudster didnt actually get any security details wrong, instead they explained they 
werent able to answer certain questions at the time relating to their debit card. I dont think 
its necessarily unusual for a customer not to have access to their card, and therefore be 
unable to answer certain security questions. For this reason I dont think a failure to get 
through the banks security systems should be enough for the bank to contact their customer 
due to concerns of fraud. 
I understand that Mr Bs suffered significant distress here  and Im sorry for the impact the 
fraud has had on him. However, I need to differentiate between the harm caused to Mr B by 
the fraudster and any errors by the bank which contributed to their actions. I understand this will disappoint Mr B, but having considered best industry practice I wouldnt have expected 
Santander to do anything further here. 
Im also pleased to see that Santander have loaded Mr B with a protective marker on the 
National Fraud Database to reduce the chances of further fraud. 
I appreciate this will disappoint Mr B however I wont asking the bank to do anything further 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman