DRN-4492619
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of her subsidence insurance
claim.
Any reference to Fairmead includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
Mrs C has a buildings insurance policy with Fairmead. She made a claim for subsidence in
March 2020, which was accepted by Fairmead.
Fairmead has issued five final response letters in total, in response to concerns raised by
Mrs C about her claim. Ive summarised these below:
13 May 2021  Fairmead apologised for its handling of the claim to that point. It
accepted there had been some poor communication, and it offered Mrs C £250
compensation.
13 August 2021  Fairmead apologised for its handling of the claim to that point,
including that alternative accommodation couldnt be sourced for Mrs C. It said the
cash settlement she had accepted for this would be paid once her signed mandate
had been received. Fairmead accepted there had been miscommunication with the
claim which had caused delays, and it offered Mrs C £350 compensation.
18 October 2021  Fairmead considered what had happened since 13 August 2021.
It said a third party had wrongly arranged to collect only 30 boxes of contents from
Mrs Cs home, when it should have been around 100 boxes. Fairmeads contractor
attended to start the internal repairs on 31 August 2021, but couldnt do so because
of the contents in the property. The repairs were therefore rearranged for 20
September 2021. Fairmead confirmed its other contractor intended to start work on
the foundations at the beginning of October 2021. Fairmead offered Mrs C £100
compensation for the miscommunication about the number of boxes, and that this
had caused a delay of around one month.
11 February 2022  Fairmead considered what had happened since 18 October
2021. It apologised for its contractor leaving the code for the key box on top of the
box itself. It also addressed a number of other issues raised by Mrs C, including that
she thought the damp proof membrane had been damaged by the subsidence as
there was mould in the property. Fairmead explained the claim was being reviewed
to see what was covered. It said that in light of the inconvenience she had
experienced, it had an open offer of compensation and could discuss this with her at
a later stage.
7 February 2023  Fairmead said it accepted that Mrs C had experienced avoidable
delays and poor service. It said that throughout the claim she had chased it a number
of times and made complaints which werent formally looked into. By way of apology,
it offered Mrs C an additional £1,000 compensation. It also noted that its previous
compensation offers totalling £450 hadnt been paid to her, and confirmed the total
payment of £1,450 would be sent to her by cheque.
Fairmead confirmed in each final response letter that Mrs C had the right to refer her
complaint to this Service within six months.
Mrs C brought a complaint to this Service in March 2022. Our investigator explained that we
could only consider what had happened since Fairmeads final response of August 2021.
Our investigator agreed that Fairmead had made mistakes with the claim. However, she
thought the total compensation offered of £1,450 was reasonable.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 November 2023. Heres what I said:
Mrs C says she started the claim with Fairmead in March 2020, and she wants this Service
to consider Fairmeads handling of the claim since this date.
The rules that govern what complaints our Service can and cant look into are set out in the
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook (known as the DISP rules).
DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communication
Mrs C brought a complaint to this Service in March 2022. That means she referred her
complaint outside the six-month deadline that was given in Fairmeads final response letters
of 13 May 2021 and 13 August 2021. Fairmead hasnt given this Service consent to consider
any of the issues addressed in those final responses. That means I cant consider what
happened prior to 13 August 2021.
Under the DISP rules, I can waive the time limits if I consider the delay in bringing a
complaint to this Service was a result of exceptional circumstances. However, Im not aware
of any exceptional circumstances that prevented Mrs C from bringing her complaint to this
Service within the time limits.
Ive therefore considered what happened since 13 August 2021.
I see this wasnt a straightforward claim. Fairmead identified that the subsidence was due to
defects with the drainage at the property. The drains were repaired, and it was agreed that
underpinning was required. An underpinning scheme was designed, though I understand the
proposal for this took some time due to the complexity, and work started on the foundations
in October 2021.
Fairmead has accepted that its third party made an error with the number of boxes that
needed to be collected from Mrs Cs home, and that this caused around a months delay.
I see that Fairmead arranged for a contractor to prepare a schedule of works for the repairs.
However, Fairmead said some of the work wasnt related to the subsidence claim. Although
some of the repairs had started around September 2021, these were then delayed until an
agreement was reached with Mrs C about the non-insured repairs. I dont think that was
unreasonable, as I wouldnt expect Fairmead to carry out repairs that werent related to the
subsidence.Fairmead wanted to restart the repairs (for the insured works) at the end of March 2022.
However, Mrs C had some queries, and so Fairmead addressed these with her. Mrs C
confirmed in May 2022 that Fairmead could go ahead with the repairs. Although there was a
two month delay here, I cant hold Fairmead responsible for this.
I note the contractor estimated the repairs would take around 12 weeks. The repairs started
in May 2022, though further issues then came to light as the repairs progressed (issues with
external render, damp plaster in kitchen and bathroom that needed to be removed, loose
brickwork which required cement screed, a wall which needed rebuilding, and a lintel that
needed to be replaced). Whilst unfortunate, this was outside Fairmeads control.
The contractor told Fairmead that the work had been completed in January 2023. However,
Mrs C raised some further concerns about the repairs that had taken place. In response to
this, Fairmead confirmed it would arrange for that work to be inspected, including the damp
proof course that had been installed. I think that was reasonable. I havent considered what
happened after this, as Ive only considered what happened up to the date Fairmead issued
its final response in February 2023.
Overall, I dont think Fairmead caused any significant avoidable delays with the repairs,
other than a months delay due to the error with the boxes.
However, I can see there were times when Mrs C wasnt kept up-to-date, and she didnt
always get timely responses to her queries. As Mrs C was unhappy with the communication
from the loss adjuster, Fairmead allocated Mrs C a case manager to update her regularly on
the claim. I think that was reasonable, though Mrs C was still caused unnecessary upset and
inconvenience by the lack of communication, and because she didnt get as many updates
as she wanted.
There were also some issues with the contractor, as items in Mrs Cs home were
broken/damaged by them. There were also items left in the property which had become
damaged due to being kept in unventilated rooms. I see that Fairmead agreed to add some
of the damaged items to the schedule of works, and arranged for a restoration company to
inspect the remaining items. Fairmead asked Mrs C to confirm which damaged items she
wanted the company to try and restore, and it agreed to cash settle the rest. Im satisfied this
was reasonable, though its still clear that Mrs C was caused inconvenience because of this.
Fairmead offered Mrs C total compensation of £1,100 for its handling of her claim since
August 2021 (though it paid her £1,450 because she hadnt accepted its previous
compensation offers). In the round, Im satisfied this level of compensation was reasonable
for the impact Fairmeads handling of the claim had on Mrs C. I dont intend to require it to
increase this.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I made a final 
decision. 
Fairmead didnt provide any further comments by our deadline. 
Mrs C asked us to confirm what date I had considered matters up to, and we confirmed this 
was the date of Fairmeads final response in February 2023. However, she didnt have any 
further comments on the provisional decision itself. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new comments for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision. So Ive reached the same 
conclusions, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied that Fairmead 
Insurance Limited has paid Mrs C reasonable compensation for its handling of the claim 
between August 2021 and 7 February 2023. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman