DRN-2717748
The complaint
Mrs W complains that she did not receive compensation from Lloyds Bank PLC after it mis-
sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to her alongside a credit card. 
What happened
In her complaint to this service, Mrs W said that on 12 August 2020, she had received a 
letter dated 12 August 2016 from Lloyds Bank to say she would receive £2,776.68. This was 
because Lloyds said it mis-sold PPI to her. Mrs W says the letter told her she would receive 
a cheque within 28 days or the money would be paid into her bank. 
When no money was received into her account, Mrs W says she called Lloyds who told her 
the money had been paid to her back in 2016. Mrs W says she didnt receive the payment. 
She questioned why Lloyds had sent her a letter four years later and said it was playing on 
her nerves not knowing whether shed been paid. 
Our adjudicator made some enquiries with Lloyds. It provided electronic evidence which it 
says shows Mrs W was paid on 19 August 2016 directly into her bank account. It could not 
provide copies of her bank statements to show the payment was received. Thats because it 
said it paid the money into an account Mrs W held with another bank.  Our adjudicator also 
asked Mrs W to provide copies of her bank statements for the relevant period. Mrs W told us 
she couldnt because she had changed banks. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs W disagreed with that view 
and said again that she hadnt received the compensation. Our adjudicator asked Mrs W 
again if she could provide copies of her bank statements. Mrs W told our adjudicator that she 
had no records, only her word that she hadnt received the payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs W, but Im afraid I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
First of all, I want to make clear that where theres a factual dispute about what happened, I 
have to apply the balance of probabilities. What that means in practice is that I have to 
consider the information before me and decide whats most likely to have happened from 
that. 
From looking at the papers, it seems to me that Mrs W initially complained to Lloyds about 
PPI back in 2016. In 2020, it looks as though a claims management company contacted 
Lloyds on behalf of Mrs W to complain about the same PPI policy. Lloyds responded to the 
claims management company in June 2020 to say that it had already dealt with the 
complaint. And so I think that could well explain why Mrs W received some correspondence 
about the PPI in the summer of 2020. 
I want to be clear that I accept Mrs W genuinely believes she hasnt been paid by Lloyds. 
But looking at the electronic evidence Lloyds provided, I think its most likely that the 
payment was issued to Mrs Ws bank account on 19 August 2016. 
Mrs W doesnt have documentary evidence to show the payment wasnt received.  I do 
appreciate she had changed banks, but I think she would have probably been able to obtain 
at least her transaction history from her old bank. I know Mrs W is keen that we should 
accept her word that she didnt receive the money. But we have evidence from Lloyds to 
show it paid her compensation. And in light of that evidence, I cant just accept what Mrs Ws 
word without any information from her to support what she told us. 
I know Mrs W will be disappointed with my decision. But after taking everything into account, 
I think its most likely her PPI compensation was paid by Lloyds. So I dont need to ask it to 
take any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman