DRN-4177764
Complaint
Ms S has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to her. She says 
the payments were unaffordable.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Ms S and L2G had told us. And she thought that L2G 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated her unfairly. So she didnt uphold Ms S complaint.  
Ms S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms S complaint.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Ms S could 
afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think about 
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Ms S with a loan for £870 in August 2022. It had an APR of 769.9% and was 
to due be repaid in 18 instalments of £178.83, which meant the total amount to be repaid 
was £3,218.94. 
L2G says it agreed to Ms S application after she provided details of her monthly income and 
expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out 
on Ms S. The information Ms S provided about her income and expenditure showed shed 
be able to make the repayments she was committing to. But it, in any event, adjusted Ms S 
income and expenditure information to account for what its checks showed and this still 
showed the required payments were affordable. L2G says, in these circumstances it was 
reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Ms S has said she was in financial difficulty. 
Ive carefully thought about what Ms S and L2G have said. The first thing for me to say is 
that this was Ms S first loan with L2G. The information provided suggests Ms S was asked 
to provide details of her income and expenditure. Equally, L2G did carry out external checks 
and didnt simply rely on what it was told. 
Nonetheless, L2G carried out a credit search which showed that Ms S had had previous 
difficulties with credit. And I think that L2 G should have found out more about Ms S 
expenditure before agreeing to lend to her. That said, even if L2G had asked Ms S for more 
information about her expenditure and about her previous difficulties the reasons for this 
wont have stopped L2G from lending.
I say this because while Ms S living costs and committed expenditure were a bit more than 
what had been declared and cross checked, when these were deducted from her monthly 
income, the loan payments would still have appeared affordable. Bearing in mind the amount 
of the repayments would have appeared affordable notwithstanding any further checks and 
Ms S lack of any previous lending with L2G, I think that L2G would have proceeded with 
lending to Ms S on the basis of this. 
I accept Ms S actual circumstances may not been reflected in the information she provided 
to L2G at the time or to us since then. But L2G could only make its decision based on the 
information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the lending relationship and 
bearing in mind the circumstances, I dont think that it was unfair or unreasonable to approve 
this loan.
Equally its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances a lender
did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that L2G did anything wrong in deciding
to lend to Ms S. As this is the case, Im not upholding Ms S complaint. I appreciate this will 
be very disappointing for Ms S. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Ms S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman