DRN-2411721
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) promised that his Gold account would 
be fee free for life and recently Lloyds wrote to him to explain that it was going to end this 
agreement.
What happened
In 2002 Lloyds actioned a transfer from Mr L and his late wifes account. This led to them not 
being able to access funds whilst traveling abroad. A result of the subsequent complaint was 
that the branch manager from Lloyds offered, amongst other things, a free Gold account for 
life.
In late 2019 Lloyds made a commercial decision and decided to write to all packaged bank 
account holders who had arrangements not to pay a monthly account fee and inform them 
that an account fee would begin to be charged from February 2020.
Mr L raised a complaint with Lloyds as he wanted the arrangement to remain in place. 
Lloyds in response offered a payment representing further 12 months of account fees along 
with £200 to reflect the distress caused by this matter.
Mr L was not happy with this offer and referred his complaint to this service for independent 
assessment.
One of our adjudicators looked into this already. He concluded that he could not ask Lloyds 
to reinstate the arrangement and that what Lloyds had already done was sufficient. He 
further explained that Lloyds made an error in offering the Gold account free for life and it 
was entitled to change its mind as long as notice was given and proper compensation 
offered. 
Mr L did not agree with this as he believes that he would not have accepted the offer of a 
free Gold account as resolution to the original complaint had he been aware that it could be 
withdrawn at any time. Moreover, he did not believe that it was fair for Lloyds to renege on 
an agreement that was made. Mr L therefore asked that his complaint be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My understanding is that Lloyds staff members were able to make arrangements for the 
account fees for its range of packaged bank account to be informally waived. However, in 
this instance I am satisfied that the member of staff from Lloyds made an error in 2002 in 
guaranteeing a fee free Gold account to Mr L for life, as they had no way of making sure that 
this was the case. Especially as over time the products that a bank offers often change as do 
its internal policies in relation to informal fee waivers. So I am satisfied that Mr L was 
misinformed during the settlement of his original complaint in 2002.
This services general approach is to put a consumer back into the position that they 
wouldve been in had an error not occurred. In this case the error was misinforming Mr L by 
saying it would provide a fee free Gold account for life when the staff member who made this 
commitment was unable to guarantee this. 
So, having found that Lloyds made a mistake, I need to do what is now possible to put Mr L 
in the position he would have been in had he been given the correct information. In essence, 
that would appear to be that he would not have agreed to settle the 2002 complaint. It is, 
however, difficult to accurately identify what would have ultimately been agreed as 
compensation 19 years ago. Either between the parties or by an independent arbitrator.
But, based on my understanding of complaint handling, I think that the value of having a 
Gold account free since 2002 (over £2,000) would, on balance, greatly exceed any 
alternative compensation that wouldve likely been offered at the time. Or directed by an 
alternative dispute resolution service, akin to this service. So overall while I am satisfied that 
Mr L was mis-led by Lloyds, I dont think that this led Mr L suffering financial detriment.
Lloyds also needed to make Mr L aware of the changes it was intending to make and offer 
compensation for the distress caused by this issue. Having carefully considered this overall I 
think that what it has already done is sufficient and it does not need to do anything more.
So I think that what Lloyds has already done to put matters right is sufficient. So I am not 
going to ask Lloyds to do anything more. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons outlined above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman