DRN-4103631
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the service he received from The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op).
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In September 2022 Mr N started the process of switching the current account provision 
from another bank to Co-op. As part of this, Co-op asked him to provide the details of the 
debit card he held with the other bank. Mr N didnt have the debit card when he started 
the process, but called Co-op to provide this. Hes unhappy with the length of time it took 
to get through to a call-handler and the length of time that call-handler took trying to 
complete the necessary security checks. He also thinks Co-op misunderstood his 
complaint  he says the bank focussed on explaining why security checks had to be 
completed, rather than the delays he experienced while the call-handler attempted to 
complete those checks. He raised a complaint and asked the bank to pay him £20 
compensation to recognise the time hed wasted.
Co-op didnt agree to Mr Ns request so he referred the matter to our service. He set out 
what he wanted the bank to do to put things right and this included paying him £40 
compensation and covering the costs hed incurred pursuing his complaint. Co-op then 
decided to uphold the majority of Mr Ns complaint and, via this service, offered him £50 
compensation to recognise the inconvenience he was caused during the phone call. 
Our investigator thought the banks offer was fair, in the circumstances. But Mr N didnt 
accept as he didnt feel his concerns had been properly addressed. So the complaint has 
come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call that resulted in Mr N raising his complaint with the bank and I can well 
understand his dissatisfaction. I accept  as does Mr N  that the call-handler needed to 
complete certain security checks before she could help with Mr Ns enquiry. But the call-
handler went silent on many occasions, often without explanation and for unacceptably long 
periods of time. Mr N had to repeatedly prompt the call-handler to explain what she was 
doing and her explanations were, on the whole, brief and unhelpful. She said little more than 
that her system was running slow and that she had to check Mr Ns application.
The call lasted for almost 44 minutes and Mr N didnt manage to accomplish what he wanted 
to during that call. Thats because the call-handler said Mr N would need to complete the 
entire switching process again in order to add his debit card details and, it seems, he didnt 
have time to do so that day given hed already been on the call for 44 minutes. Mr N chose 
to end the call, saying he would either call back the following day or would cancel his 
existing debit card. Its not clear to me if the call-handler was correct in what she said or 
whether Mr N called back the next day. But Im pleased to see the banks note indicate that 
the account switch was completed on 4 October, which was the date Mr N told the call-
handler that he was expecting this to happen. So it seems that the problems Mr N 
experienced during that phone call didnt actually delay the account switch.
Mr N was transferred to the call-handler by another employee, who worked in the mortgage 
team. Mr N suggests  contrary to the investigators suggestion  that he might have ended 
up with the wrong department due to a technical issue, rather than because of an error on 
his part in selecting the correct option. I would expect the bank to ensure the options a 
customer selects during a call gets them through to the correct department. But its not 
possible for me to know how Mr N got through to the wrong team on this occasion, so I cant 
fairly say the bank made a mistake or needs to do something more to put this right. I also 
note Mr N says the delay due to this misdirection amounted to only a few minutes and so 
that doesnt form the crux of his complaint. 
Mr N says the bank misunderstood the cause of his complaint when they called him to 
discuss the matter. I have no reason to doubt this and I can see why he may have been 
frustrated to receive a letter, following that call, which indicated the matter had been 
resolved. But I note the content of that letter complies with the requirements set out in 
section 1.5 of the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the FCAs handbook and correctly 
gives Mr N referral rights to this service.
Its unfortunate that Mr N had such a bad experience during his very first call with the bank 
and I can appreciate that he would like some reassurance that this type of problem wont 
occur again. With this in mind, Im pleased to note that Co-op tells us it has listened to the 
call and provided feedback to the call-handler. It is also obliged, under DISP 1.3.3R to:
Put in place appropriate management controls and take reasonable steps to ensure that 
in handling complaints it identifies and remedies any recurring or systemic problems, for 
example by: 
1. analysing the causes of individual complaints so as to identify root causes 
common to types of complaint 
2. considering whether such root causes may also affect other processes or 
products, including those not directly complained of; and
3. correcting, where reasonable to do so, such root causes.
With all of the above in mind, Im satisfied that the £50 compensation already offered is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plc should pay £50 compensation to Mr N, if 
it has not already done so.
The Co-operative Bank Plc must make this payment within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it that Mr N accepts my final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman