DRN-2892919
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, will not refund a 
transaction which he says he doesnt recognise. Mr B also complains about the poor service 
he received when he raised a dispute about five other transactions.
What happened
Mr B told Virgin Money he did not recognised a payment for £246.80 on 1 January 2020. 
Virgin Money raised a chargeback request, but this wasnt successful. The payment was to a 
car rental company for damage to a car that Mr B had hired. Virgin Money said there wasnt 
evidence to show there had been a misrepresentation or a breach of contract, so Mr B 
couldnt make a successful claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act.
Mr B didnt agree and didnt receive a response to his complaint, so he referred it to us.
Virgin Money told us why it had decided not to refund the payment. It also said Mr B had 
complained about the following disputed payments:
1 June 2020 £11.98
1 July 2020 £11.98
17 July 2020 £3.45
20 July 2020 £11.80
20 July 2020 £6.48
It said it had refunded both of the £11.98 transactions but apologised that it had initially only 
refunded one. And it explained why the remaining three transactions were genuine. It 
apologised for the poor service Mr B had received, in particular its lack of contact, and for 
the inconvenience hed been caused. It offered to pay him £100 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt think Virgin Money was obliged to do anything more.
Mr B said he accepted the banks offer for compensation for the time it had taken it to tell 
him about the three small transactions hed disputed. But he didnt agree with our 
investigators conclusions about the banks handling of the chargeback and section 75 claim 
for the £246.80 payment. He said, in summary, that:
As cardholder, the car hire company did not have his signature to authorise the payment.
The paperwork completed when the car was returned does not record any addition 
damage, and he didnt sign to agree any additional damage.
The photos showing damage to the car are undated.
He did not authorise the transaction and Virgin Money has not treated him fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am aware Mr B has raised several disputes and complaints with Virgin Money about 
transactions on his credit card account. This complaint is only about the transactions 
detailed in the What happened section above. Mr Bs other complaints are being dealt with 
separately by Virgin Money  he is of course able to refer any or all of those to this service if 
he remains dissatisfied with the banks response, or eight weeks have passed since he 
raised the complaint.
It seems that Mr Bs complaint about the two transactions for £11.98 has now been resolved 
 Virgin Money refunded these. And that his complaint about the three small transactions 
has been resolved as Virgin Money confirmed these were genuine transactions and Mr B 
has indicated he wishes to accept its offer of £100 to compensate him for the poor service 
and lack of contact he received.
The matter that remains in dispute is Virgin Moneys handling of the disputed payment for 
£246.80.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator. 
I will explain the reasons why.
Chargeback
Banks can help settle some disputes between customers and retailers by submitting a 
chargeback request for a transaction. Chargeback is a way for customers to dispute certain 
card payments and is run by the card scheme. A chargeback can only be done for certain 
specific reasons, such as the goods not being as described or being faulty, and within 
certain timescales. And theres no obligation on a business to carry out a chargeback, 
although we generally take the view that its good practice for a business to do so where 
theres a reasonable prospect of success.
I find that Virgin Money submitted a chargeback request but that it was successfully 
defended by the retailer. Based on the evidence supplied by the retailer, I find Virgin Money 
acted reasonably - it temporarily credited Mr Bs account whilst the request was ongoing, but 
it reapplied the amount when the chargeback request was unsuccessful.
Section 75
In considering whether Virgin Money treated Mr B fairly, I need to have regard to the relevant 
law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the time. In this 
case, relevant law includes Section 75, amongst others. Importantly, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section 75. Rather, when I think about 
what a fair way is to resolve Mr Bs complaint, I have to take account of relevant law, but that 
doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if 
Mr B pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract. This is because, our 
service is an informal alternative to the courts, and it operates under different rules from a
court. 
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr B has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the retailer, he can also bring that claim against Virgin Money provided 
certain conditions are met.Mr B says he didnt authorise the transaction. He said theres no evidence that the car was 
damaged when he returned it, or that hed agreed to pay for any damage.
The evidence provided by the car hire company indicates the car was involved in an 
accident  the charge includes a fine and the cost of a police report - which caused damage 
to the front bumper. The copy of the report and fine wasnt provided, so I havent seen 
evidence to show that the accident happened when Mr B was driving the car. But hes not 
contested this. He argues that he never authorised the payment and that theres no evidence 
to show when the damage occurred. 
As the evidence here is incomplete and contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
After very careful consideration, I think its more likely than not that the damage did occur 
whilst Mr B was renting the car. I say this because I think, if he hadnt been involved in an 
accident, he would have made this clear when he saw the evidence provided by the car hire 
company.
Mr B didnt sign to authorise the payment at the time it was taken. But he signed to confirm 
he agreed to the terms and conditions of the car hire. This included being responsible for 
any costs arising due to an accident, including damage to the car and any fines and 
sanctions.
For these reasons, I cant conclude Virgin Money acted unfairly or unreasonably and I dont 
require it to refund Mr B or pay him any compensation for this transaction.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, should pay 
Mr B £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman