DRN-2189612
The complaint
Miss R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly registered a default on 
her credit file.
What happened
Miss R says she was ill in 2019 and unable to work which led to financial difficulties. She 
says she spoke to Halifax about this, but it registered a default on her credit file despite 
writing the debt off in 2020. Miss R says this is unfair and will impact her ability to obtain 
credit and a mortgage and that Halifax hasnt considered her illness.
Halifax says it spoke to Miss R in October 2019 and agreed to stop interest on the account 
for 30 days. It says Miss R told it she was starting work and told her to make contact with it 
after that 30-day period ended. Halifax says in January 2020 it wrote to Miss R about the 
debt and sent her a default notice but didnt receive any response. It says it registered a 
default in February 2020 and didnt receive contact from Miss R until March 2020. Halifax 
says it is legally obliged to accurately report Miss Rs account position to the Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs).
Miss R brought her complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Halifax acted positively and sympathetically when told about Miss Rs financial and 
health difficulties in October 2019 but thought it told Miss R to make contact after the 
months breathing space. The investigator thought there wasnt any contact until March 2020 
and that Halifax had sent a number of letters about the default. And that Halifax was obliged 
to report accurate information to the CRAs which it did.
Miss R doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Halifax has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I realise Miss R will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate that she has 
health and financial difficulties which I have taken into consideration.
Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial and other difficulties 
positively and sympathetically and with forbearance. I have listened to the call between the 
parties and Im satisfied Halifax acted in such a way here by agreeing a 30-day breathing 
space and by stopping interest and charges. Im also satisfied Halifax asked Miss R if she 
could manage her account, which she said she could and that it told Miss R on a number of 
occasions that she must make contact with it when that 30-day period ended.
Im satisfied having looked at Halifaxs records that Miss R didnt make that contact and 
didnt make any contact until some five months later. In that time there is no dispute that 
Halifax sent a number of letters to Miss R which Im satisfied made clear that unless a 
balance was cleared, that the account would default. So, I dont think Halifax made a 
mistake or acted unfairly in those circumstances by registering a default in February 2020 
when Miss R didnt make the required payment or made any contact with it. Im satisfied that 
at that stage Halifax reasonably concluded the relationship between it and Miss R had 
broken down.
I accept that Halifax later wrote off the debt, but I dont think that means it should remove the 
default from Miss Rs credit file. Im satisfied that lenders have a duty to report an accurate 
position of their customers accounts to the CRAs. And I think that is what took place here. I 
accept Miss R has health issues, but I think she told Halifax that she was returning to work 
and told it she could manage her account. So, I dont think those health issues prevented 
Miss R from contacting Halifax from the end of the breathing space until the default was 
registered. I can see that Miss R was able to mange her affairs by making one payment to 
Halifax and think she could have considered alternative methods of making contact with 
Halifax if she didnt wish to speak directly to it.
Overall, I dont think Halifax made a mistake or acted unfairly by registering the default and 
so I cant fairly order it to remove it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman