DRN-1346722
 
The complaint
Mr L complains as a director of E, a limited company, that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited unfairly declined a claim on his commercial legal expenses insurance 
policy.  
What happened
In May 2019, Mr L contacted DAS. He said E had entered into a business contract with a 
third party whereby it would be paid sales commission but this hadnt been paid.
DAS considered whether the policy would cover this dispute but it said it wouldnt. This is 
because the dispute had arisen within the first 90 days of the policy, which was specifically 
excluded within the terms and conditions. 
Mr L says the dispute hadnt arisen as yet. And hed only been notifying DAS of a potential 
claim. He feels DAS has declined cover prematurely and that its decision was unfair. So he 
brought a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that, based on DAS contact 
notes, Mr L had got in touch because there was a dispute with the third party. And that he 
wanted to make a claim. In any event, she explained that it didnt matter whether there was a 
potential claim or an actual claim at this point. This is because the policy exclusion is 
relevant to the date the dispute arose, not when the claim was made. 
Mr L didnt agree. He said there wasnt a dispute at that time. Hes asked that an 
ombudsman review his complaint. So its been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.  
The policy terms and conditions say E is covered for contract disputes, defined as a dispute 
arising from an agreement or alleged agreement which has been entered into by or on 
behalf of the policyholder for the purchase, hire, sale or provision of good or of services. 
The policy goes on to say that there is no cover for any dispute arising from an agreement 
entered into prior to the inception date of the indemnity provided by this section if the date of 
occurrence is within the first 90 days of the indemnity provided by this section. 
The policy defines date of occurrence as the date of the event that leads to a claim. If 
there is more than one event arising at different times from the same originating cause, the 
date of occurrence is the date of the first of these events. (this is the date the event 
happened, which may be before the date the policyholder or an insured person first became 
aware of it).  So if the contract is entered into before the policy is taken out, and the event that leads to a 
claim takes place within the first 90 days of the policy, theres no cover. 
The policy started on 7 March 2019. Mr L contacted DAS on 21 May 2019. Ive reviewed the 
call notes. These say Mr L told DAS E was in dispute with a third-party business about non-
payment of sales commission. He confirmed the problem had first started approximately one 
week prior. And that hed appointed a firm of solicitors to act for E. 
DAS emailed Mr L the following day requesting the date E entered into the contract; the date 
commission was due to be paid; and the amount in dispute. It also advised that there would 
only be cover under the policy at that stage if Mr L agreed to use DAS preferred solicitors. 
Mr L called DAS on 23 May 2019. The call notes say Mr L told DAS that E entered into the 
contract in July 2018. And that hed invoiced the third-party business in February 2019 but 
that E wouldnt be paid until theyd been paid. Hed found out they had now been paid but 
the third-party business was denying this. 
Based on this information, DAS declined the claim. This was because the contract had been 
entered into before the start of the policy, there was no cover for a dispute over that contract 
which arose within the first 90 days of the policy, and when Mr L notified DAS of the matter, 
it was still within the first 90 days. 
Es solicitors asked DAS to reconsider the claim. They said that although the third-party 
business hadnt paid, there was no suggestion the sums invoiced would not be paid. So 
there was no dispute. Nor was there a disputed debt. In the complaint to our service, Es 
solicitors say Mr L contacted DAS as the policy says he must give prompt notice of anything 
which is likely to give rise to a claim. And that he was only notifying DAS of a problem, not 
a dispute.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ls arguments, Im satisfied DAS decision to decline the claim was 
fair and reasonable. I say this because it was based on the information Mr L gave. I dont 
think Mr L was only notifying DAS of something that could give rise to a claim and that it 
wasnt something he was looking to pursue at that time. 
But even if that was the case, the policy is clear that the date of occurrence is the event that 
leads to a claim. This may not be the date Mr L decides to make a claim  it may not even 
be the date Mr L decides his company is in a dispute. Its the date that something happens 
which leads to a claim arising. And based on what Mr L reported to DAS, Im persuaded this 
had occurred, which is what prompted him to contact his insurers  he said the third party 
had received payment so E was due its commission, but the other business was denying this 
and the commission hadnt been paid.
Taking into account the policy terms and the circumstances surrounding the claim I think the 
decision not to provide cover was fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman