DRN-4177276
The complaint
Mr S complains QIC Europe Limited unfairly declined his home insurance claim. 
Mr S has been represented at points for the claim and complaint. For simplicity Ive referred 
to the actions of the representative as being those of Mr S.
What happened
In late November 2022 Mr S and his family went abroad. On Christmas Eve his neighbour 
told him his home had been damaged by an escape of water. Mr S contacted his insurer, 
QIC, the following day. He made a claim for escape of water. 
During validation of the claim Mr S provided QIC with flight tickets. These showed him as 
departing the UK on 29 November 2022 and returning on 22 January 2023. It said this 
meant the property had been unoccupied for more than 30 days. It said the policy excludes 
loss or damage by an escape of water while the building is unoccupied. So it relied on the 
exclusion to decline the claim.  
Mr S complains that the decline is unfair as he intended to return to his home, to attend a 
medical appointment, before the 30 days. He says he couldnt as his home wasnt habitable 
because of the escape of water. To resolve his complaint he would like QIC to pay his 
contents and buildings claims, cover the cost of his alternative accommodation (AA) and be 
paid compensation. 
Our investigator felt QIC had declined the claim unfairly. She wasnt persuaded it had shown 
enough to fairly decline it. So she recommended it cover the cost of repairs and pay 
compensation of £400. QIC didnt accept that. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. As its reasoning forms part of this final decision Ive copied it 
in below. In it I explain why I didnt feel QICs decision to rely on the exclusion to decline the 
claim was unfair or unreasonable  and so I didnt intend to require it to pay the claim. I also 
invited Mr S and QIC to provide anything they would like me to consider before issuing this 
final decision.  QIC didnt respond. Mr S provided a detailed submission. Ive addressed his 
main points below. 
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to 
uphold Mr S complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr S and QIC have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be 
key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered 
everything provided.
Mr S policy covers his buildings and contents against loss or damage caused by 
escape of water from domestic installations in his home.  But it excludes loss or 
damage while the buildings are unoccupied.
The policy defines unoccupied as - when the property is not lived in by Mr S or his 
family for more than 30 days in a row. The policy terms state QIC considers a 
property as unoccupied from the first day it wasnt lived in. In this case that would 
have been 30 November 2022. 30 days later was 30 December 2022. 
The loss happened on 24 December 2022  about 24 or 25 days into the trip. So at 
that point the property hadnt been not lived in for more than 30 days in a row. But 
the policy terms say the property is considered unoccupied from the first day it isnt 
lived in. So for QIC to rely on the exclusion it needs to show Mr S most likely 
intended for the property not to be lived in beyond 30 December 2022. 
Mr S flight booking show he was out of the UK from 29 November 2022 until late 
January 2023. This is clearly more than 30 days. However, he says he didnt intend 
to be away for that long. He accepts he originally booked flights for those dates. But 
he intended to return to the UK (and the property) before the 30 days limit. Hes 
provided a medical appointment letter for 29 December 2022. This was issued on 5 
December 2022. 
Mr S explained he books flights with the intention of amending them later. He says 
doing so can offer better value. He explains the only reason he didnt, in the end, 
return until late January 2023 was because of the damage to the property. He had no 
AA for him and his family in the UK. So he remained abroad, until late January 2022, 
in AA covered by QIC.
QIC doesnt accept Mr S explanation. It says he hasnt provided enough to support 
his claimed intention to amend his flights and return before 30 days. 
As far as Im aware by 24 December 2022 (when he was told of the loss) Mr S hadnt 
amended his return flight to the latest reasonable date for him to make the medical 
appointment. That would be the 28 December 2022.
I accept its possible Mr S explanation is genuine. But it seems unlikely. So for me to 
think it probably was always his intention to return before the 30-day limit Id need to 
see some persuasive evidence. QIC says hes been inconsistent with his 
explanation. Having considered its reasons for that I cant say its being unfair.
In a call with his home emergency insurer, on Christmas Day, Mr S explained he had 
intended to return home just after the new year, but now I dont know.... If that 
was his plan it would have meant more than 30 days away from the property. In the 
call he didnt mention an intention to return for the medical appointment a few days 
later.  
In late February 2022 had a call with QICs claim handler. In this call he explained he 
had wanted to return on 25 December 2022. He says after the neighbour discovered 
the damage he changed his plans  extending his stay. He didnt mention the 
medical appointment.  
In March 2023, in response to QICs request to validate his plans, Mr S provided a 
detailed explanation of events. In this he explains how he had intended to return 
before the 30-day point, for a medical appointment, by amending his flight. There are various records of requests from Mr S for AA in the UK. In these he says 
hes unable to return to the UK as he has no accommodation. In none of these does 
he mention the need to return for a medical appointment. Im not persuaded this 
means he didnt intend to be away for more than 30 days. It seems more likely he 
understandably decided to return to deal with the damage to his home.   
Ive also considered a consultants letter Mr S referred to. This explains the 
consultant understands Mr S will be away for a month. He adds hopefully the 
appointment should go ahead.  
On balance I cant say QICs opinion that Mr S intended to be away from his property 
for more than 30 days is unreasonable. Ultimately it seems he booked flights for a 
trip much longer than 30 days. But with only a few days for him to return for the 
appointment he hadnt amended the flight. So on balance it seems most likely he 
intended, at the outset, to be away for more 30 days. 
It seems likely the property being unoccupied resulted in the leak causing more 
damage than it would have otherwise. And Ive seen that the unoccupancy exclusion 
is explained in the policy summary. So Im satisfied it was most likely highlighted to 
him.
For the reasons set out above, I cant say QICs decision to rely on the exclusion to 
decline the claim is unfair or unreasonable. That means I dont intend to require it to 
pay the claim or any compensation for not having done so. 
QICs also referred to a requirement for Mr S to have notified it that the property 
would be unoccupied. It previously said if he had it would have introduced a policy 
endorsement that would allow it to decline the claim. Its since said he would simply 
have been reminded of the unoccupancy exclusion. In any event I havent considered 
this aspect. Ive already said I intend to find it was fair and reasonable for it to decline 
claim based on the exclusion. So any consideration of Mr S having failed to notify 
QIC of the trip wouldnt make a difference to the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require QIC to pay Mr S claim. 
I set out in the provisional decision that I wasnt persuaded Mr S intended, before the escape 
of water, to be away from his home for less than 30 days. I explained I didnt think he 
probably did intend to amend his flights to return by 28 December 2022 for a medical 
appointment. 
Mr S has provided various information to support his position that he did intend to return by 
28 December 2022. A letter from a neighbour says Mr S discussed with him in December 
that he would return for the medical appointment on 29th of that month. In addition hes 
provided a letter from a previous insurer to show he informed it he would be away from his 
home for an extended period. These do provide some support for his argument.  
The provisional decision refers to Mr S informing his home emergency insurer, on Christmas 
Day, that he had planned to return just after the new year. In response Mr S says this was a 
mistake. Amongst other points he says English isnt his first language and he misunderstood 
the question. Ive listened to the call. Im not persuaded there was any confusion. I think he probably did understand the question when he said he had intended to come back after New 
Year.   
Mr S provided various flight tickets. He says these show he books tickets close to the time of 
departure and has a history of amending tickets. Ive considered these. I accept hes 
changed his travel plans in the past. In one instance nine days before his planned return 
flight, he extended his stay by a week. But in this case, he hadnt amended his flight with 
only three or four days (including Christmas and Boxing Day) until he needed to depart to 
make the medical appointment  despite knowing about it for up to two weeks. So, in my 
opinion, the flight history doesnt provide much support for Mr S account.   
I havent responded here to every point Mr S made in his recent response, but I have 
considered it all. I still accept its possible he did intend to return for the medical appointment. 
But overall Im still not persuaded he most likely did. Hes stressed the seriousness of his 
need, and his intention, to return for the appointment. Unfortunately the evidence from 
around the time of the loss and the appointment doesnt support him. 
If he was so intent on returning for the appointment its likely he would have provided it, early 
in the claim, as a reason for requiring AA in the UK. He says it wasnt a medical insurance 
claim so he didnt disclose it. But that doesnt mean he couldnt raise a medical appointment 
as a reason for him requiring AA in the UK. 
I accept this will be frustrating for him, but Im still not persuaded Mr S did intend to return 
before the 30-day limit  so I still cant say QICs decision to decline his claim is unfair or 
unrealisable.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require QIC Group Limited to pay Mr S claim or to do 
anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman