DRN-4124016
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the settlement theyve been offered by Covea Insurance plc 
(Covea) following a claim under their home insurance.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr Ps wallet was stolen when he was shopping. His wallet contained two 
rings, some cash, his driving licence and bank cards. Mr and Mrs P made a claim to Covea, 
their home insurance provider.
Covea initially said both rings would be covered and offered settlement, but Mr and Mrs P 
didnt think the settlement being offered was fair. Covea re-reviewed things several times, 
and the end position they reached was that one of the rings would be covered as it was 
specified on the policy. But they said the other ring wasnt covered as it wasnt specified, and 
Mr and Mrs P didnt have unspecified personal possessions cover away from the home.
Due to the conflicting information around the claim decision, Covea initially offered £100 
compensation, and later offered a further £25 compensation.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with the settlement offered for the ring which was covered 
under their policy, and that the other ring wasnt covered. So, they approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but he didnt recommend Covea do anything further. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. Our investigator obtained some more information from Covea 
(and their agents) and considered things further.
Ultimately our investigator still didnt recommend Covea do anything further. He said one of 
the rings, the wallet and cash werent covered, so Covea hadnt acted unfairly by declining 
that part of the claim. He said he was unable to listen to a call which Mr and Mrs P said they 
had with Covea before taking out their policy, but he said the documents they were provided 
with outlined the cover they had.
The investigator also said he thought the settlement offered for the ring which was covered 
was fair and reasonable, and in line with the terms of the policy, so he didnt recommend it 
be increased. He also said the £125 compensation offered by Covea for the conflicting 
information was fair, so he didnt recommend Covea do anything further.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
There were two rings which were claimed for, Ill consider each separately. But to be clear, 
the ring covered under the policy Ill refer to as ring A, and the ring not covered Ill refer to as 
ring B.
Ring A
Covea accepted the claim for ring A. This ring was individually specified on Mr and Mrs Ps 
policy due to its value. Therefore, there was cover provided for this ring under specified 
personal possessions away from the home cover.
Coveas jewellery specialist validated the claim for this ring and the following settlement 
offers were ultimately made:
A voucher to the value of £1,985
A cash settlement of £1,306.79 
If the cash settlement option was chosen, an additional reimbursement of £261.36 
VAT would be given on receipt of an invoice
Both settlement options would be subject to the policy excess deduction
Mr and Mrs P have since paid to replace the ring at a cost of £1,985. So, they want that 
amount as a cash settlement, rather than a discounted amount or voucher. 
The terms of Mr and Mrs Ps policy explain:
The insurer can choose to replace, repair or reinstate the lost or damaged property. 
If you request a cash settlement this will be restricted to the discounted replacement 
price we would normally pay using our own suppliers.
This means that in the event of a cash settlement, Covea will pay the cost to them, and that 
will take into account any discounts that Covea may receive. Mr and Mrs P obtained a quote 
for replacing the ring totalling £1,985. Covea offered this amount as a voucher, as they said 
the supplier that quoted was in their approved networks for this type of settlement. 
I dont think the voucher offer was unreasonable as it was to the value of the quote 
Mr and Mrs P obtained, which was from a jeweller in Coveas approved supplier network. 
However, Covea will obtain discounts and this is the reason the cash settlement is for a 
lower amount than the voucher total being offered, because this would be the cost to Covea. 
So, I dont think Coveas cash settlement offer was unfair as this is the cost to them in 
settling the claim for the voucher for the approved network supplier.
I do recognise Mr and Mrs P went ahead and purchased a replacement ring in the interim 
whilst the claim was being considered by Covea, but I cant see that they were told to do this 
by Covea or this was agreed beforehand. Whilst it may have cost Mr and Mrs P more in 
cash than the cash offer being made by Covea, I dont think either of the offers Covea made 
were unfair. So, Im not going to direct Covea to increase the cash amount, as Im satisfied 
that what has been offered is in line with the terms of Mr and Mrs Ps policy, and they 
werent entitled to that amount in cash under the policy terms.
More recently, Mr and Mrs P have also obtained a further quote which was higher by 
approaching Coveas claims agent as a new private customer. However, Im satisfied the 
offers made by Covea were fair, and they also took into account the quote Mr and Mrs P 
obtained for a replacement at the time (which is also the amount they paid to replace the 
ring).So, to conclude, I dont think either of the offers made by Covea were unreasonable or 
outside the terms of Mr and Mrs Ps policy, so Im not going to direct Covea to increase 
either of them. 
As I understand it, neither settlement has been given to Mr and Mrs P as they didnt accept 
either of them. So, Ill leave it to Mr and Mrs P to now decide which option theyd rather 
accept, and they should then approach Covea directly to confirm this and to arrange the 
claim settlement with them.
Ring B 
Covea said ring B would be covered and offered settlement, but that decision was later 
reversed  and this happened more than once. Ultimately the end position was that this ring 
wasnt covered under Mr and Mrs Ps policy. So, Ill focus on the reasons for this specifically.
However, Ive also considered separately below the overall service Mr and Mrs P received, 
including the impact of the conflicting advice and change of claim decision.
Covea says ring B isnt covered under Mr and Mrs Ps policy. This is because for cover away 
from the home, personal possessions cover was required. Any item over £2,000 needed to 
be individually specified, and any items individually less than that amount needed to be 
included in an overall sum for unspecified personal possessions cover away from home.
There were only two rings specified on the policy (ring A and another ring not being claimed 
for) as they were valued at more than £2,000 individually. But ring B wasnt specified as the 
value was less than £2,000. But importantly, there was no unspecified personal possessions 
cover under the policy for losses away from the home as this cover wasnt taken out by 
Mr and Mrs P, so that ring wasnt covered. 
Therefore, the only cover away from home under Mr and Mrs Ps policy was for the two 
specified rings. On this basis, and as the loss happened away from the home, I dont think 
Covea acted unfairly by declining the claim for ring B.
Mr and Mrs P say that before they took the policy out online in 2020, they called Covea. 
They say they were told the only items which needed to be individually specified were the 
two rings that were as the individual values were more than £2,000.
As explained to Mr and Mrs P by our investigator, the agent acting on behalf of Covea at the 
time the alleged advice was given hasnt provided this call. So, I have to reach my decision 
on balance, and taking into account the remaining information.
As I mentioned, Mr and Mrs P say they were told the only rings they needed to individually 
specify were those valued at £2,000 or more. If thats what they were told, I dont think that 
advice was incorrect. Thats because any items valued at £2,000 or more do indeed need to 
be specified individually.However, whilst the other items (ring B included) were valued at £2,000 or less and didnt 
need to be individually specified, for cover to apply outside the home, unspecified personal 
possessions cover would need to have been in place. But this cover wasnt taken out by 
Mr and Mrs P.
Had the loss been in the boundary of the home, then they may have been covered under the 
general contents cover. But for cover away from home, unspecified personal possessions 
would need to have been taken for any items below £2,000, and any items over that amount 
individually specified. So as there was no cover for personal possessions valued at less than 
£2,000 away from home, I dont think Covea has acted unfairly by declining this part of the 
claim for ring B.
I should also note, as mentioned, that I havent been able to listen to the call Mr and Mrs P 
said took place when they first took out the policy. But, two months prior to the loss 
occurring, the policy was renewed for a second year. And Mr and Mrs Ps policy documents 
sent at the time of renewal and before the loss occurred also confirmed (as did their original 
policy documents), that they had no cover away from the home beyond the two specified 
rings.
Wallet & cash
Covea also didnt accept the claim for the wallet or cash. Our investigator said that as there 
wasnt unspecified personal possessions away from the home cover then there wouldnt be 
cover for this either.
I agree with what our investigator says here.
Overall service
Its clear that suffering the loss of your personal items will be distressing in itself, and even 
more so to discover not all items are covered under your insurance policy. But here this was 
added to by Covea given conflicting information about the claim for ring B. This led to 
Mr and Mrs P being under the impression that ring B would be covered, to later be told it 
wouldnt  and this happened more than once.
Mr and Mrs P say Covea should settle the claim for ring B as they were told it would be 
covered more than once. But for the reasons outlined above, this item wasnt ever covered 
under Mr and Mrs Ps policy, so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct Covea to 
pay this based on their incorrect advice alone.
But I do accept this would have caused Mr and Mrs P additional inconvenience and a loss of 
expectation. However, Covea has already offered a total of £125 compensation for their 
handling of things, and the incorrect advice they gave. And having taken everything into 
account, I dont think that amount of compensation is unreasonable, so Im not going to 
direct Covea to increase it.My final decision
Covea Insurance plc has already made an offer to pay £125 compensation to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Covea Insurance plc should pay £125 compensation if they havent 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman