DRN-3875814
The complaint
Ms C complains about how esure Insurance Limited handled a claim made on her motor 
insurance policy and the amount of compensation it has offered for this. 
What happened
Ms C notified esure of an accident and esure initially thought her car was beyond 
economical repair. However, after assessment, it said the car was repairable. It took esure 
seven weeks to arrange for the car to be taken for repair and Ms C was without transport in 
this time. She said she called, emailed and tried to contact esure online for updates without 
success. esure agreed its service could have been better. It reimbursed Ms Cs transport 
costs, the cost of removing her dashcam, and it offered her £150 compensation. But Ms C 
remained unhappy. She thought esure should pay her £700 compensation. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought esure 
should have provided Ms C with a courtesy car two days after her car was deemed 
repairable. She thought it hadnt kept Ms C updated about her claim. She thought its claim 
handling should have been better and it had caused long delays. And so she thought esure 
should increase its offer of compensation to £300. 
esure replied that it had reimbursed Ms Cs transport costs and the cost of removing her 
camera and sensor. It said it thought £150 was sufficient compensation for the amount of 
inconvenience caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C has explained that whilst shes happy with the refund of her transport costs and the 
cost of removing her camera and sensor, she feels that the level of compensation offered by 
esure isnt sufficient for the stress and frustration caused. I can see that she was frustrated 
by delays in the claim, esures errors, and its lack of updates and responses to her 
communication. 
When a business makes a mistake, as esure accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
esure is obliged by the rules that govern it to deal with claims promptly and fairly. There was 
an initial delay in the claim until esure assessed the car and declared it to be repairable. But 
this was over the holiday period, so I cant say that this was avoidable. 
But it then took esures repairer seven weeks to take the car in for repairs. esure said it had 
overlooked the booking. But I think esure should have been more proactive in chasing this 
up, and in responding to Ms Cs requests for updates. And when the car was booked in, 
there was a further weeks delay because a courtesy car wasnt then available. 
I can see that Ms C was entitled by her policys terms and conditions to a courtesy car while 
her car was being repaired by the approved repairer. And I can see that esure should have 
provided this within two working days. Ms C didnt drive her own car because shed been 
told that it needed repair. As Im satisfied that esure was responsible for the avoidable delay 
in taking the car for repairs, I think it should reasonably compensate Ms C for the loss of use 
this delay caused. 
Ms C said that during this period she tried to contact esure by phone without success. She 
tried email, and she received acknowledgements that said esure would reply within four 
days. But it didnt do this. And she tried online chat to see what was happening with her 
repairs, but this service wasnt available. During this time I can see that Ms C was uncertain 
what was happening with her claim and her cars repairs. 
esure agreed to refund Ms Cs receipts for taxis and other transport costs and to reimburse 
her for removing her camera and sensor. This means that Ms C wasnt out of pocket due to 
esures errors, and I think that reasonably restored her position.
But Im not satisfied that esures offer of £150 compensation for the impact of its errors is 
sufficient in the circumstances for the following reasons:
Ms C had the inconvenience of having to book alternative transport and didnt have the 
convenience of her own or a courtesy car due to esures delays in arranging repairs. 
I think she was also caused considerable stress and frustration by esures lack of 
updates and lack of responses to her communication over a matter of months. 
esure had recorded incorrect contact details for the other driver. But it didnt check these 
with Ms C causing a delay in the claim. 
Our Investigator recommended that esure should increase its offer of compensation to £300. 
I think thats in keeping with our published guidance for the level of impact esures errors had 
on Ms C. And so I think thats fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to pay Ms C £300 compensation (in total) for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its level of service.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman