DRN-3575938
The complaint
Mrs H says HSBC UK Bank Plc has treated her unfairly in relation to a transaction on her 
credit card which paid for flights abroad.
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs H used her HSBC credit card to pay for flights for herself and others to 
fly abroad in July 2020 and to return in August 2020. Mrs H paid over £2750 for these.
As the Pandemic grew during 2020 Mrs H became concerned. In July 2020 she had two 
calls with HSBC about what she should do. In the later call she makes clear she knows the 
airline says that if the tickets are cancelled they are non-refundable. Mrs H says shes lost a 
lot of money due to what she was told. She says that in the first call that HSBC confirmed 
that I would need to cancel the flights first then raise the issue with them. She says in the 
second call that HSBC said that I could definitely raise a claim, the only concern would be 
which team to deal with it. She says as a result of these calls she cancelled the flights.
Mrs H has explained that through various insurance policies and flight tax refunds, a 
significant amount of money has been recouped but that she is still over a thousand pounds 
out of pocket. So she complained to HSBC.
HSBC looked into the matter and didnt think it could help. It said that it had listened to the 
calls and it hadnt made any mistakes and relied on what Mrs H had said in those calls when 
talking to her. It also said that it didnt feel it should refund her the outstanding amount as in 
its view a chargeback didnt have a reasonable prospect of success. And didnt feel that the 
airline had breached its contract, so HSBC wasnt liable for any refund under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Mrs H, still unsatisfied, brought her complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt HSBC didnt have to do anymore. And Mrs H remains unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H used her HSBC credit card to pay for the flights. This means under S75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA for short) she can bring a like claim against HSBC for any 
breach or misrepresentation made by the Supplier-the airline here. But to be clear HSBC is 
only liable where its made out there is breach or misrepresentation. It isnt responsible for 
anything the supplier does outside of these two areas for example poor customer service.
Mrs Hs HSBC credit card is part of a card network. And this network has rules which 
includes giving HSBC an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Suppliers, namely 
through the Chargeback process. The Chargeback process is not a right for consumers, nor 
does it provide any guarantee of success. But this service does consider raising a 
chargeback to be good practice if the credit card supplier considers the dispute has a 
reasonable prospect of success.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is about HSBC and whether it did what it 
should have and whether it treated Mrs H fairly in relation to its obligations. This decision 
isnt about the airline which isnt a party to this decision nor within this Services remit for. 
Similarly I cannot comment on the travel insurance companies either. I hope this distinction 
is clear.
I should also add that Mrs H has raised many issues. Ive considered them all. However I will 
only address the key issues here as I see them in order to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome in line with our aims of being clear and informal.
the calls
I have listened to both the calls Mrs H refers to. HSBC offered to send them to her at the 
beginning of this dispute. This service can provide them to her if she wishes.
I should make very clear that in neither call does either HSBC advisor say that HSBC will 
definitely refund her the amount spent. In both calls the advisors talk about her being able to 
raise a claim or a dispute. From the arguments Mrs H has made since the time it is 
possible that Mrs H has interpreted these comments as that shell get her money back. 
Indeed in her response to the assessment of the Investigator Mrs H says I was wrongly 
informed that I would be covered before I cancelled the flights. But having listened to these 
calls carefully this isnt what has been said. What has been said is that a claim can be 
raised, or a dispute can be raised. Neither advisor gives any guarantee of such a claim or 
dispute being successful.
In the first call she talks about being covered by travel insurance for these flights. And I 
should also note that in the second call Mrs H informs the advisor that we are definitely 
covered by the travel insurance. And from the response of the advisor it seems clear to me 
that the advisor relies on that information provided in the discussion that follows.
In the first call the HSBC advisor repeatedly says Mrs H should talk to the airline first and 
that is how the call ends. In the second call the HSBC advisor repeatedly says Mrs H should 
talk to the disputes team first (which wasnt available due to it being the weekend). I can see 
that Mrs H when asked by our Investigator has said:
We subsequently cancelled the flights however when I contacted the disputes
team the following day I was immediately informed that we would not be able to
raise a dispute as we had cancelled the flights.
So it is clear to me that Mrs H didnt follow the advice given by the second advisor to talk to 
the disputes team. She has explained she cancelled and then spoke to the disputes team. It 
is also clear from the second call that Mrs H knows the flights are non-refundable if she 
cancels. But by her own admission she cancels and then speaks to disputes team. I dont 
think its fair to hold HSBC responsible for this course of action based on what it said in the 
calls.
could HSBC challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs H 
does here, HSBC can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Mrs H doesnt dispute 
that she used her HSBC credit card here. Nor does she dispute the amount, date, or any other details about the transactions. So I dont think HSBC couldve challenged the payment 
on the basis Mrs H didnt properly authorise the transactions, given what Ive just set out.
HSBC is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success. This is the test here. 
Ive considered the chargeback rules and the scheme guidance along with the relevant term 
in the airline terms and conditions. Mrs H has made clear she knew the tickets were non-
refundable and then went on to cancel them. Having considered the matter in the round I, for 
broadly the same reasons as given by the investigator, do not feel in the circumstances that 
such a chargeback had a reasonable prospect of success. Accordingly I dont think Mrs H 
has lost out due to HSBCs approach to chargeback.
What about s75?
Ive considered the preliminary requirements set in the CCA for a claim to be potentially 
successful. Im satisfied that the claim sits within the financial limits applicable. Im not 
necessarily persuaded that the required Debtor, Creditor Supplier relationship required by 
the CCA is in place here. But for the reasons Im about to give I dont think this makes a 
difference.
Mrs H cancelled the tickets and she got no refund as per the terms applicable. She did 
manage to recoup some taxes from the airline albeit a very small amount compared to the 
overall cost of the tickets. But Im satisfied that the airline committed no breach here nor 
misrepresentation which Mrs H relied on to her detriment. So HSBC has nothing to be liable 
for under S75.
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that there was anything in the contract which enabled Mrs 
H to cancel with a refund in certain circumstances such as a pandemic. And as this is a like 
claim against HSBC the onus is on Mrs H to demonstrate such as would be the case if she 
was making the claim to the airline.
I shall turn to some of the comments Mrs H has made for the sake of clarity.
Mrs H has said the main focus of my complaint is that I was informed by two HSBC advisors 
on 28 June 2020 that I would be able to raise a dispute as I had paid for the flights with my 
credit card. This incorrect information resulted in me cancelling the
flights when I did. It is true both said you could raise a dispute or claim. Neither said it would 
be successful or that shed get her money back through such a claim or dispute. And Mrs H 
cancelled without talking to the disputes team as advised on the second call. 
Mrs H has said I would not have cancelled the flights when I did and would have been able 
to transfer the funds to another trip. Mrs H cancelled what shed earlier described as non-
refundable flights. And Im not persuaded HSBC has done anything wrong here. And she 
was advised to talk to both the airline and the HSBC disputes team.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Mrs H wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mrs Hs avenues for recouping these funds spent here will be significantly 
limited if not eliminated. But this does not mean that HSBC has done anything wrong in 
dealing with the issues arising from this transaction. Im not persuaded HSBC did anything 
wrong in those calls which would make it fair that it cover the amount Mrs H is out of pocket 
for. Mrs H cancelled the flights that shed earlier acknowledged were non-refundable without 
talking to the disputes team as HSBC advised. Accordingly this complaint is unsuccessful.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC Bank UK Plc. It 
has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman