DRN-3679458
The complaint
Mrs B complains on behalf of her stepmother Mrs C, that Key Retirement Solutions Limited 
(Key) mis-sold her a lifetime mortgage. Mrs C says she felt pressurised in doing so and she 
didnt have sufficient business acumen to understand the consequences of taking out a 
lifetime mortgage. 
What happened
Mrs C originally contacted Key in 2008 to enquire about taking out a lifetime mortgage. An 
application was made in 2009 and a valuation was carried out which valued the property at 
£275,000. A mortgage offer was sent to Mrs C in May 2009 which confirmed an initial lump 
sum of £9,350 and a regular income of £700 per month for 10 years. 
Key said that the mortgage wasnt mis-sold and the evidence from the point of sale shows 
that Mrs C wanted to take out this lifetime mortgage because she wanted an income. They 
said based on the advisers recommendations at the time, the advice given was appropriate 
for Mrs Cs objectives at the time. 
Mrs B, on behalf of Mrs C, has said that her stepmother never wanted to take the mortgage 
out. She said that Mrs C has suffered from ill health over the years and she feels that Key 
didnt fully investigate the state of Mrs Cs health and question the process of selling to 
someone who is elderly. Mrs B also didnt understand how this could happen without a 
family member being present at the appointment. 
As Mrs C disagreed with what Key had said, she brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. The investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint and thought that Mrs C had a reasonable understanding of the 
agreement she had with Key. 
Mrs B, on behalf of Mrs C didnt agree. In summary, she made the following comments:
Mrs C was told by Key she needed to take independent advice. An adviser was 
recommended by Key, so this isnt independent
The suitability report didnt take into account Mrs Cs partner of 18 years, her failing ill 
health or the state of the 400-year-old listed building so believe the report wasnt 
done in depth
Mrs C was no longer driving so disagree that the funds were required for her to 
change her car. 
Mrs C didnt understand the implications of what this mortgage would have on her 
future. Her reading ability is limited
Mrs C had to pay back £154,788 leaving her approximately £149,000 less fees to 
find alternative housing which she wouldnt have been able to find in her area
In conclusion, Mrs B on behalf of Mrs C maintains that the mortgage was mis-sold as Mrs C 
was 74 years of age at the time and in ill health. Mrs C should have been deemed as a 
vulnerable person and the scheme designed to her. 
As Mrs C disagreed, she asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has provided detailed information about what has happened. Ive concentrated on 
what I feel is the crux of the matter and if I dont comment on a specific point, its not 
because  I havent considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach the right outcome on the complaint. 
This mortgage was taken out a long time ago, so Ive looked at details from the sale of the 
mortgage and what was regarded as good industry practice at the time. I have considered 
whether Key did anything wrong when the mortgage was initially taken out. In doing that, I 
cant take into account the regulatory standards that are in place now as things were 
different then. 
I have looked at the records from the time of sale to try and get the best impression possible 
as to what was discussed. Ill also look at the circumstances of Mrs C at the time of sale to 
try and establish if the mortgage was in fact mis-sold.
There are concerns that Mrs C wasnt asked if anyone else, such as a family member, 
should be present at any time during the process.
There are two equity release questionnaires (ERQ) that we have been provided with by Key. 
One is from 2008 when Mrs C first made an enquiry, and one from 2009 when the 
application was made. 
On both ERQs, its noted that there wasnt anyone else present in the meetings. It also 
shows that Mrs C was given the option for someone to attend the meeting, but she had 
declined. There is no obligation for Key to ensure that someone else was at that meeting 
with Mrs C and Im satisfied that she was given this option.
A suitability report was produced following on from the discussion that Mrs C had with the 
adviser at Key. The report itself takes into account things like Mrs Cs income, assets, health 
and potential change in her circumstances.  This information would have been used to 
assess whether Mrs C was suitable to take out a lifetime mortgage.
Based on Mrs Cs situation at the time, she met the requirements for an equity release 
mortgage. She was over the age of 55, she owned her own home and her regular outgoings 
exceeded the monthly income she received from her pension. From the information 
provided, its clear that Mrs C was looking to supplement her income so she could live 
comfortably and top up her savings without the need to move home as she said she was 
happy there. 
Mrs C told Key that her monthly income was £433 and based on her outgoings, she had a 
shortfall of £367 each month. She wanted a monthly income of £700 over a ten-year period. 
It seems that the monthly income was needed as Mrs C wasnt receiving enough. There is 
also a note on the suitability report that says Mrs C may want to upgrade her car. 
Mrs B has mentioned that Mrs C wasnt driving at the time so there would be no reason for 
her to want to upgrade her car. I havent seen anything that would have indicated that Mrs C 
wasnt driving at the time. So based on what Mrs C told Key, its reasonable for Key to have 
documented this in the suitability report and to use this as another reason for why Mrs C 
may have needed additional funds.
Mrs B has said that the suitability report didnt mention Mrs Cs partner or her health or the 
property that she lived in. Mrs Cs partner wouldnt have been mentioned in the report 
because the application was solely in the name of Mrs C.  I can see from the ERQ that there 
wasnt any mention of him living in the property with Mrs C. But this wouldnt have changed 
anything because Mrs C solely owned the property and her partner was not a joint holder. The report showed that Mrs C considered herself to be in good health and this was also 
confirmed in the ERQ.  Mrs C owned her own property and it didnt need to be mentioned 
specifically what type of property it was. I understand that Mrs B said there were problems 
with damp and timber, but the ERQ and suitability report focuses on valuation and 
ownership. A valuation was also carried out at the time which would have been deemed 
suitable otherwise Key wouldnt have gone ahead and produced the mortgage offer. 
Mrs B also told us that Mrs C wasnt in a good place due to a close family member passing 
away and that this had impacted her mental health. I can appreciate this would have been 
and probably still is very difficult for Mrs C. But it wasnt something that I can see she 
mentioned to Key and even if she did, she deemed herself to be in good health so the 
lifetime mortgage would still have been suitable for her. The same would apply to the other 
health issues Mrs B said that Mrs C had at the time. Mrs C was specially asked about her 
health and she gave no indication that anything was wrong. So we couldnt reasonably 
expect Key to have known any different. 
The suitability report and mortgage offer that Key provided to Mrs C shows that they 
recommended she seek independent legal advice from a firm of solicitors who are familiar 
with equity release schemes. 
Mrs C did seek independent legal advice and I have seen a certificate from the solicitor 
which confirms they explained the terms and implications of the lifetime mortgage to Mrs C. 
Its not unusual for Key or any other equity release providers to recommend a legal adviser 
for their customers. Even though a solicitor was recommended, they are still an independent 
and a separate business to Key. So Key havent done anything wrong here. 
Mrs B said that no indication was given to Mrs C as to how much she would have had to pay 
back. When asked if Mrs C received any statements, Mrs B explained that Mrs C didnt open 
any documents relating to the lifetime mortgage so she wouldnt have been aware. I 
appreciate that Mrs C may not have wanted to open any of the letters relating to the 
mortgage, but Key would have sent out information which Mrs C should have read. We 
wouldnt have expected Key to have done anything else. 
However, the mortgage offer which was initially provided to Mrs C in May 2009 made it very 
clear what would need to be paid back. Section 8 of the mortgage offer under  what you will 
own and when shows the balance at the start of each year alongside payments paid to Mrs 
C and interest charged. Each year from year one to year 12 shows how much would need to 
be repaid if Mrs C decided to repay the mortgage. 
Mrs C repaid this mortgage in 2021, so 12 years later. The mortgage offer shows that in year 
12, the amount owed would be £156,441. I understand that the total figure that was repaid 
was £154,788.08. This precise figure was not on the mortgage offer however the amount 
that was repaid in year 12, was less than stated on the mortgage offer. I therefore think that 
the mortgage offer was a reasonable indication of how much needed to be paid and when. 
Overall, I cannot conclude that Key mis-sold the mortgage to Mrs C. I appreciate she will be 
disappointed with this decision but for the reasons Ive given, I think Key acted reasonably 
when they assessed Mrs C for the lifetime mortgage. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 Maria Drury
Ombudsman