DRN-4206959
The complaint
Mr M has complained that his motor insurer, West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay), turned 
down a claim he made on his policy. 
West Bay is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Throughout the claim Mr M was 
also dealing with other companies who act as West Bays agents. As West Bay has 
accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in my decision, any reference to 
West Bay includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
Mr M made a claim on his policy after discovering that his car radio had stopped working. He 
said he noticed that the aerial which is attached to the back window had detached from the 
window. 
West Bay referred the claim to its windscreen repairer who said it couldnt deal with the claim 
under the policy as the window itself wasnt damaged. West Bay told Mr M that it is likely that 
this wouldnt be a windscreen claim but rather an accidental damage claim. So his excess 
would be £300 instead of £100 which is the excess for glass replacement claims. But in any 
event it told Mr M it didnt think the claim would be covered at all as the damage was likely 
caused by wear and tear.
Mr M didnt agree and West Bay agreed to instruct an engineer to inspect the car. The 
engineer confirmed that he thought the damage was caused by wear and tear so West Bay 
turned the claim down.
 
Mr M didnt agree and complained about this and a number of other issues relating to West 
Bays service. For example, he said that he wasnt put through to a manager when hed 
asked to be, he had to spend a long time on hold on the phone, West Bay caused delays 
etc. Mr M also thought that the policy had been mis-sold as he thought West Bay wasnt able 
to source the glass for his car and that this was why it turned the claim down. He said that he 
had tried to negotiate with West Bay but it didnt agree. He said hed sourced a replacement 
window but wanted West Bay to cover his fuel for travelling to collect it.
West Bay offered Mr M £75 for having to hold on the phone for long periods of time but it 
didnt otherwise uphold the complaint. Mr M then brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
West Bay was acting fairly and reasonably in following the engineers opinion that the 
damage was down to wear and tear. And she didnt think the policy had been mis-sold as 
West Bay could have settled the claim in other ways  even if it couldnt source the window 
which she didnt agree with in any event  by paying a cash settlement or sourcing a 
non-manufacturer part. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with regret for the disappointment this may cause, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. I trust that my reasons below will help Mr M understand why I have arrived at this 
decision. 
Mr M said his claim should have been covered under the glass damage section of the 
policy but I dont think thats the case. I say this because that section only covers damage to 
the glass itself or to any of the bodywork that has been damaged by broken glass. In Mr Ms 
case the window itself didnt break. And this was confirmed but the glass repairers who West 
Bay instructed initially. That section of the policy also states that damage to permanently 
fitted accessories (such as, arguably, the aerial in this case) will be excluded but covered 
under the damage section of the policy. 
It follows that I think West Bay was acting in line with its policy terms when it said that it 
wouldnt be dealing with this claim under the glass damage section which attracts a lower 
excess.
West Bay said that the claim wasnt covered in any event because the damage was due to 
wear and tear. Like most motor insurance policies I am aware of, Mr Ms doesnt cover 
damage claims resulting from wear and tear, mechanical or electrical breakdown. This isnt 
unusual and I dont think its unfair either so I think West Bay can rely on this term.
 
Mr M couldnt say how the damage happened but he said that he noticed the aerial had 
detached from the window after loading the boot. West Bay instructed an engineer to inspect 
the vehicle as it wasnt able to obtain photographs from Mr M. The engineer said the 
damage was due to wear and tear. The engineer is an expert in his field and in the absence 
of conflicting expert evidence, I think it is fair and reasonable that West Bay followed the 
engineers advice which led to it rejecting the claim. 
Mr M was also unhappy with West Bay because he said it caused delays. Mr M wanted the 
engineer to inspect his car immediately after the glass repairer said it couldnt help him. 
West Bay told him he might have to wait around four weeks. I dont think this was 
unreasonable bearing in mind that garages are busy and also the fact that the car was still 
driveable. From what I have seen the engineer and West Bay tried to arrange appointments 
within a reasonable time but this was also subject to Mr Ms availability. I see that Mr M 
doesnt always travel to the same place of work which made the appointment a bit harder to 
set up. And also the engineer couldnt inspect the vehicle outside working hours. I think this 
is reasonable. From what I have seen I dont think West Bay caused any avoidable delays in 
this regard and the car was inspected just over two weeks later which I think was fair and 
reasonable. 
West Bay offered Mr M £75 for poor service including having to hold a long time to speak to 
a handler. I think this is fair and reasonable and in line with our awards in similar 
circumstances. I note Mr M was also unhappy he wasnt put through to a manager when he 
asked to be. I dont think it is always possible for a manager to be available but I have noted 
that a manager did try to get in touch with Mr M later. So I wont ask West Bay to pay further 
compensation for this. 
Mr M said the policy was mis-sold because West Bay could never source a replacement 
screen for him. As pointed out by our Investigator West Bay could have settled the claim by 
other means including a cash settlement. And I note that Mr M was able to source replacement glass himself so I dont see why West Bay wouldnt be able to. So I dont think 
the policy was mis-sold to Mr M for the reason he has cited. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I am not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman