DRN-4255722
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Oodle Financial Services Limited, who Ill call Oodle.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs G, but Im not persuaded that Oodle have done anything wrong 
here. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs G acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Oodle, who are also the supplier 
of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
When we think about whether a car has been of satisfactory quality the relevant legislation 
also explains that we should consider whether the car has been durable. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs G. The car here was about 
three and a half years old and had already completed about 31,000 miles.
An older car with a higher mileage will not be expected to be as good as a newer car with a 
low mileage, but it should still be fit for use on the road, in a condition that reflects its age 
and price.
As the faults Mrs G has referred us to happened after shed been in charge of the car for 
over a year, and after shed been able to cover about 12,000 miles in the vehicle, I think the 
onus was on her to demonstrate that the faults were present when the car was supplied to 
her. Im not persuaded shes been able to do that.
The turbo hasnt been retained and a further inspection cant therefore be arranged. 
However, I note the warranty didnt cover the fault, and that there was no indication of a 
sudden failure. On that basis I dont think I have sufficient evidence to fairly suggest the 
turbo had failed because it hadnt been adequately durable.
I was sorry to hear that the repairs completed to the turbo hadnt resolved matters. I note 
Mrs G has provided some evidence of additional faults. Ive seen, for instance, that there 
was an SOS warning light, and a boost pressure sensor fault. Ive not seen any expert 
mechanical testimony that would suggest those faults were present or developing at the 
point of supply, and as Mrs G has completed about 12,000 miles in the car it seems unlikely.
I dont, therefore, think Oodle have been unreasonable in rejecting Mrs Gs claim and Im not 
asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman