DRN-2264417
The complaint
Ms W complains that Unum Ltd unfairly declined her claim for income protection. 
What happened
Ms W had the benefit of a group income protection policy through her former employer. In 
2019 she made a claim on the policy, stating that her mental health was preventing her from 
working. 
Unum declined Ms Ws claim. It said the available medical evidence didnt demonstrate that 
shed met the policys definition of incapacity. It also said the medical evidence suggested 
that her condition was longstanding, and her symptoms had been exacerbated by perceived 
difficulties in the workplace, personal stressors and bereavement. 
Ms W complained about the way Unum had handled her claim and the decision it had 
reached. But Unum maintained its position, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
An investigator looked at what had happened, but they didnt think Unum had declined 
Ms Ws claim unreasonably. They agreed that Ms W had been unwell, but said the medical 
evidence didnt demonstrate that shed been incapacitated in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. They also said they hadnt found any concerns in the way Unum had handled the 
claim. So, they didnt recommend Ms Ws complaint be upheld.
Ms W disagreed. In summary she said that her workplace issues may not have helped her 
illness, but she said they werent the cause of it and her mental health had prevented her 
from working. So, as no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the relevant rules and industry guidelines, Unum must handle claims both 
promptly and fairly, and it mustnt reject them unreasonably. 
As I set out above, Ms W had the benefit of a group income protection policy through her 
former employer. The policy was designed to provide a regular benefit in the event of an 
employee becoming incapacitated. And it set out that it would consider someone 
incapacitated if they were:
Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of 
the insured occupation, and arenot performing any occupation.
Like our investigator, I accept that Ms W was unwell. But it wouldnt be enough for the 
medical evidence in this complaint to show that she was unwell. It would need to show that 
she was unable to perform the material and substantial duties of her occupation because of 
her illness. 
Ms W disagrees with the way Unum has interpreted the medical evidence in this complaint. 
But having considered that evidence myself, I dont think its interpretation was unreasonable. 
Without referring to every piece of evidence available, Ill explain why. 
Ms Ws GP medical records do indicate that her illness had been long standing. But they 
also refer to her being stressed because of events at both work and home, and do not 
substantiate that she was unable to perform the material and substantial duties of her 
occupation. 
Similarly, a number of the fit notes which signed Ms W off work cite stress related illness, 
stress related problems or stress related bereavement as the reasons for her being unfit 
for work. And they do not give any indication as to why her illness may have prevented her 
from being able to perform the material and substantial duties of her occupation either. 
A letter from a consultant psychiatrist also makes reference to the longstanding nature of 
Ms Ws ill health. But the letter also refers to matters Ms W was trying to cope with in her 
personal life, and states that Ms W hadnt felt welcomed when shed returned to work. 
A letter from a chartered psychologist also notes that Ms W had been suffering from severe 
stress in her home life, and said that she could not deal with the pressures of work and a 
long commute. 
That same letter also notes that Ms W was fearful about the stress of returning to work. And 
in later correspondence from the same psychologist reported that Ms W was stressed 
because of work and said they didnt anticipate a return to work for her, without a course of 
therapy and the stressors at work being resolved.
So although I accept that Ms W was unwell, based on the available medical evidence I dont 
think that Unum acted unreasonably in concluding that her condition was longstanding, and 
her symptoms had been exacerbated by perceived difficulties in the workplace, personal 
stressors and bereavement.
Ms W also has concerns about the way her claim was handled. I can see there were some 
delays with her claim, but Im not persuaded I can hold Unum liable for those delays and will 
explain why. 
Unum requested medical evidence from Ms Ws GP in March 2019. Unfortunately, it took 
almost four months for that evidence to be received. That would have been frustrating, but I 
cant fairly hold Unum responsible for the delays in that evidence being produced. 
Once Unum had received all the evidence it had requested (which was by July 2019), it 
decided Ms Ws claim the same month. Ms W doesnt appear to have received that decision 
until the following month. But as our investigator rightly explained, it isnt unusual for an 
insurer to communicate with its policy holder where group policies are concerned. 
In this complaint, Ms Ws former employer was the policy holder. So while I appreciate a lack 
of direct communication with Unum may have been a cause of further frustration for Ms W, it 
would be unfair of me to hold Unum responsible for any delays in the employer passing 
relevant information on to her.
So, for the reasons given above, I do not think that Unum acted unreasonably in this 
complaint. I realise Ms W will likely be disappointed by my findings, but I will not be 
interfering with Unums decision to decline her claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman