DRN-2796226
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Yorkshire Building Society (YBS).
What happened
Mr and Mrs H applied for a mortgage with YBS in January 2000, and bought the PPI at that 
point. The mortgage and policy then started in April 2000. YBS and Mr and Mrs H agreed 
that the sale took place during a meeting, and I can see from the documentation that the 
policy was recommended for them. Mr and Mrs H said they werent given a choice about 
taking the PPI, and they didnt need it as they had good employee benefits.
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr and Mrs H at a 
monthly cost of £24.15, after an initial period of six months where the PPI was free of 
charge. The monthly benefit was £500, split between Mr and Mrs H broadly in proportion to 
their incomes. If Mr and Mrs H had made a successful claim, the policy couldve paid out for 
up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed, and asked that it be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. I issued a provisional decision in February 2021, in 
which I said that I disagreed with our adjudicator, and proposed to uphold this complaint. Mr 
and Mrs H did not make any further submissions. YBS sent in further evidence and 
arguments which I have considered below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
YBS sent in copies of the mortgage application form, mortgage offer and PPI application 
form. Mr and Mrs H provided copies of Mr Hs sick pay entitlement information, and some 
documents from YBS. One of the documents is headed product recommendation form, and 
starts by detailing the mortgage product recommendation. There is then a printed statement 
In addition I recommended the following types of insurance products offered by the Society 
and underneath this, PPI and buildings and contents insurance are noted. (This complaint is 
only about PPI so I will make no further reference to buildings and contents insurance.) From 
this I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs H were advised to take out the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs H said that the adviser went further than recommending the policy, and they felt 
that they had to take out the PPI to get the mortgage. They referred to wording in the PPI 
section of the mortgage application form, and in a further document titled arranging a 
mortgage - the key facts, which strongly encourages applicants to take out PPI. Mr and Mrs 
H also sent in a document which they said they had been given with their application papers 
 presumably by mistake - and which sets out a comparison between PPI premiums charged 
by YBS and competitor lenders. This seems to be a marketing document designed for use 
by staff.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs H said  and I accept that as the sale took 
place in a meeting, I cant know how the adviser presented the PPI. However, although I can 
see that that the wording they referenced was designed to encourage applicants to consider 
PPI, I dont consider that, in itself, it is enough to say that the PPI was presented to Mr and 
Mrs H as being compulsory. I also think its possible that Mr and Mrs H might have 
remembered the recommendation to take out PPI as a suggestion that they must have it  
Im conscious that the sale took place some 21 years ago and memories can fade with time. 
On balance, I dont think I can fairly say its most likely that Mr and Mrs H were told they had 
to have the PPI, which is what Id have to do to be able to uphold the complaint on this point 
 I simply dont have enough evidence that this is what happened. 
However, as Ive explained, Im satisfied that YBS advised Mr and Mrs H to take out the 
policy. So it had to make sure the policy was suitable for them. I said in my provisional 
decision that I didnt think it was.
As Ive said, I cant know how the YBS adviser explained the PPI - especially the things not 
covered. But I cant see that Mr and Mrs H wouldve been affected by any of these.
I said in my provisional decision that it wasnt clear how the cost was explained or what 
product details were given to Mr and Mrs H at the point of sale (although the cost was 
subsequently stated in the mortgage offer). YBS has now provided a copy of the mortgage 
illustration given to Mr and Mrs H, and I can see that the premium was set out on that, so I 
accept that the cost was disclosed at the time of the sale. However, this was not the main 
reason for my concern about the suitability of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs H told us they had very good employee benefits. Mr H said he wouldve been 
entitled to 12 months full sick pay from his employer  and sent in evidence to confirm that - 
and redundancy pay of two years salary. Mrs H said she wouldve been entitled to six 
months full sick pay followed by six months half pay, and wouldve had five to six months 
redundancy pay. Mr and Mrs H also said they had savings of about £10,000 they couldve 
relied on, this amount not being required for their house purchase. 
I said in my provisional decision that, looking at the details of their circumstances as set out 
in the mortgage application form, Ive no reason to doubt the information Mr and Mrs H 
provided. I also said that the mortgage documents didnt contain a record of Mr and Mrs H 
having been asked about their employee benefits in determining the PPI recommendation, 
and that the amount of the mortgage was not particularly high relative to their salaries. So it 
seemed to me that if either Mr or Mrs H couldnt work, they wouldve been able to maintain 
their mortgage payments for quite some time  most likely for as long as the PPI wouldve 
paid out and possibly longer. As a result I didnt consider they wouldve seen a particular 
need for the cover, and I didnt think it was suitable for them or that they wouldve taken the 
policy out if they had had been properly advised. So I concluded that their complaint should 
be upheld. 
In response to this point, YBS sent in a sample copy of an insurance needs form which it 
said wouldve been completed by the adviser. Unfortunately it could not provide a copy of 
the actual form from Mr and Mrs Hs sale. I can see that in the PPI section of the form the adviser was required to complete details 
confirming eligibility, occupation status, employer entitlements and any state benefits. YBS 
also referred to section H of the mortgage enquiry form (which I take to be the mortgage 
application, as it hasnt provided a separate enquiry form and section H on the application 
covers PPI), saying that it wouldve gone through the eligibility and suitability sections with 
Mr and Mrs H. YBS further said that these sections prove that Mr and Mrs H declared their 
savings but didnt declare any existing benefits, and that the advice provided was based on 
their needs declared at the point of sale. 
However, I dont agree. Ive carefully considered YBSs submissions, but the sample 
insurance needs form shows what should have been discussed, rather than what was 
discussed in this case. And I can see no reason why Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have given 
details of their sick pay and redundancy pay if requested to do so  especially as, in Mr Hs 
case, his employee benefits were particularly good, and it seems unlikely he wouldve been 
unaware of this. And Section H of the application form was pre-printed text encouraging 
applicants to consider how they would pay the mortgage in the event that they couldnt work 
so does not provide evidence of what was actually discussed during the sale. 
The other new evidence provided by YBS was a list of the contacts with Mr and Mrs H, but it 
does not shed light on what happened at the point of sale. None of the documents provides 
any further information about the reason for the recommendation of the PPI for Mr and Mrs 
H. As I noted above, the mortgage amount was not particularly high relative to Mr and Mrs 
Hs salaries and it seems to me that if either couldnt work, they wouldve been able to 
maintain their mortgage payments for quite some time  most likely for as long as the PPI 
wouldve paid out and possibly longer.
Overall, having considered the new evidence and information provided by YBS, Im not 
satisfied that it is enough to change my conclusions. I remain of the view that the policy was 
not suitable for Mr and Mrs H and that they would not have taken it out had they been 
properly advised. Therefore I am upholding their complaint. 
Putting things right
YBS should put Mr and Mrs H in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out the 
PPI. The policy has been cancelled, so YBS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, YBS can take off what they 
got for the claim from the amount it owes them. YBS can also deduct the amount it has 
already paid in relation to commission on the policy.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires YBS to take off tax from this interest. YBS must give Mr and Mrs 
H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Yorkshire 
Building Society should pay them the compensation Ive described. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman