DRN-3177742
The complaint
Mr C says PSFM SIPP Limited trading as Punter Southall SIPP (PSS) wrongly made tax-
free payments to him in 2020 from an inherited Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and 
wrongly informed him that no tax was due on those payments; that it/HMRC subsequently 
identified, and prompted correction of, this error; that the correction led to a loss of his 
2020/21 personal allowance, a higher income tax liability than he had planned for and, in 
order to manage that liability, the need for him to stop withdrawals from the SIPPs (his and 
the inherited one) in November 2020.
Mr C says PSS should bear responsibility for the higher income tax liability he faced and for 
the other consequences he incurred in the matter. PSS disagrees. It accepts responsibility 
for misinforming him, for the erroneous tax-free payments and for the trouble that caused 
him. For these reasons it partly upheld his complaint and offered him £1,000 in 
compensation. However, it disputes responsibility for his income tax liability. It says that 
liability justly arose because of the size of his withdrawals and because he continued the 
withdrawals even after the error was corrected and disclosed; so the error arguably did not 
make a difference; he would have made the withdrawals in any case and been liable for the 
same income tax. PSS has highlighted the specific personal reasons for which Mr C made 
the withdrawals as further support for its view that they would have been made in any case.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, he said:
Mr C made the tax-free withdrawals (totalling £34,000) from the SIPP up to July 
2020. The error was identified, corrected and disclosed to him in July 2020. 
Thereafter he made further withdrawals from the SIPP, within the 2020/21 tax year, 
totalling £42,000. 
Two factors support the conclusion that Mr C would probably have made the same 
withdrawals even if he knew from the outset that they were taxable. He continued to 
make withdrawals after he was told that they were taxable, so this suggests he would 
have done the same from the outset (if he knew they were taxable). All his 
withdrawals were prompted by a specific set of circumstances and his personal 
financial commitment within those circumstances, which meant he needed funds and 
would probably have made the withdrawals from the SIPP for that purpose.
His income tax liability arose because of the withdrawals he made, and he would 
have probably made those withdrawals in any case, so compensating him for the tax 
he paid would give him an unjust financial advantage, which is not what our service 
does in complaints. There is no evidence of a financial loss to him arising from PSS 
error.
For the above reasons, PSS offer of £1,000 for the non-financial consequences of its 
error (including the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C) is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr C disagreed with this outcome. He says the investigators analysis echoes PSS and that 
both are misguided in concluding that the error made no difference to his withdrawals  
and/or that he would have made those withdrawals in any case. He accepts that his personal 
financial commitment in the circumstances that have been referred to was unyielding and 
that he needed to access funds for that purpose, but he says he sought to access tax free 
funds specifically. He presented evidence to support this  including evidence of a loan he 
took out at the time and correspondence in March 2020 about tax-free home equity release 
 and he says the only reason he proceeded with the withdrawals from the SIPP, instead of 
an alternative, was because he was informed those withdrawals would be tax-free. As such, 
he says, PSS misinformation made a material difference at the outset, because if he had 
been told the withdrawals were taxable he would have pursued an alternative.
Mr C says PSS misinformation also continued to have an effect after the correction, 
because he was already engaged in providing funds for the personal matter he had 
committed to and he needed to generate those funds without delay; if he stopped the 
withdrawals from July and pursued the equity release option that would have taken time and 
would have defeated the urgency in the matter he was funding; so he had no choice but to 
continue making the SIPP withdrawals after July. He says all this would have been avoided if 
PSS had given him accurate information about the withdrawals being taxable, as he would 
have sought funding elsewhere. He also made submissions about how PSS offer fell short 
of covering accountability for its wrongdoings in the matter and short of covering the 
potential for his tax liability to have been worse had he not mitigated in the matter.
The complaint was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key underlying facts appear to be the personal financial commitment that Mr C had, its 
unyielding nature and the fact that he would have sought funds, in any case, for that 
commitment. I do not set out the details of that commitment. This decision will be published 
and there could be a risk of breaching his anonymity if such details are given. The issue is 
that he needed funds from somewhere, in April 2020, and he essentially says he would not 
have made withdrawals from the SIPP for this purpose if he knew they were taxable.
I accept Mr Cs evidence on the alternative sources of funds he pursued at the time, in 
March 2020, prior to the SIPP withdrawals that he began in April. However, on balance, I 
consider that his assertion that he would have used such an alternative(s) if he knew the 
withdrawals were taxable is a convenient one based on the benefit of hindsight and that his 
argument (and evidence) in this respect does not automatically establish his claim.
It does not appear that Mr C had accessible funds in a cash deposit context, that he could 
have used for his personal financial commitment. That commitment was substantial. He 
made withdrawals from the inherited SIPP every month between April and November 2020 
that totalled £76,000. PSS has also reminded us, with evidence, that he made separate 
withdrawals from his own SIPP (not the SIPP he inherited) every month between April and 
October 2020 that totalled £86,000. All withdrawals  the combined total of £162,000  
appear to have been in aid of his commitment. Those after July were made by him in full 
knowledge that they were taxable but they appear to have been made nevertheless because 
of the seriousness of and urgency in the matter he was addressing.
If, as it appears, Mr C did not have such substantial funds in his cash deposit(s), and if he had been told that the SIPP withdrawals would be taxable, I consider that the main options 
available to him would have had costs of one type or another. A loan would have required 
the payment of interest, an equity release solution would have led to the same and 
withdrawals from the SIPP, at the level he required (which significantly exceeded his 
personal allowance), would have led to a tax liability.
In the above context, I understand he says he sought a tax-free solution, but if he avoided 
withdrawals from the SIPP he would have faced costs in another form. The point I make is 
that it cannot safely be said, with at least probability and without the benefit of hindsight, 
what Mr C would have done in such circumstances at the time. Perhaps he would have 
compared the cost of paying interest with the potential tax liability. Upon doing so, it appears 
that the possibility he could have decided to undertake a tax liability instead of the cost of 
interest payments would have competed on a broadly equal footing with the possibility he 
could have preferred the cost of interest payments over a tax liability. Overall, I do not 
consider that I have enough evidence to conclude, on balance, that he would not have made 
withdrawals from the SIPP if he knew at the outset that they would be taxable. 
Like the investigator, I too consider that his actions after July lend support to the above 
finding and to the conclusion that PSS error probably made no material difference to the 
matter. I understand his reasons for continuing with the withdrawals, in terms of avoiding a 
delay in accessing the funds he needed. However, his reasons appear to be limited. He was 
told about the error, the correction and application of tax to the withdrawals (past and 
henceforth) in an email on 16 July. He made sizable withdrawals from his SIPP in the same 
month (one on the same date and the other at the end of the month). He then made five 
sizeable monthly withdrawals from the inherited SIPP between August and November (twice 
in November) and six similar withdrawals from his own SIPP between August and October 
(twice in September and three times in October). 
It is reasonable to consider that all these withdrawals were not made necessary by the fact 
that he could not afford a delay in funding the matter he was addressing. Upon awareness in 
July that the withdrawals were taxable, and if  as he says (or suggests)  he would have 
preferred an alternative to the taxable SIPP withdrawals but could not afford to be without 
access to funds whilst he pursued that, Mr C could have engaged in both. He could have 
begun the process for a loan or equity release solution (or any other alternative solution) in 
July and continued to withdraw from the SIPP(s) only until that alternative was concluded. 
He did not do this and, on balance, I consider that it would have been a reasonable and 
relatively obvious option for him at the time. Instead he continued the SIPP withdrawals and 
stopped them in November. 
He says he stopped the withdrawals in order to stem and manage his tax liability, but he was 
aware of that liability four months earlier and continued the withdrawals regardless, without 
seeking an alternative as described above. On balance, these suggest that the withdrawals 
(even with the tax liability) were not an unsuitable solution for him and that he did not behave 
like they were after he learnt about the tax liability.
For the above reasons, I am not persuaded that Mr Cs position was materially altered by 
PSS error. That is not to say the error did not have an adverse effect on him. It did, but not 
in the form of a financial loss  given that PSS did not cause any investment loss in the 
SIPPs and given that the tax liability he incurred from the withdrawals were legitimately 
applied (due to the size and value of the withdrawals) and resulted from withdrawals he 
probably would have made even if he knew at the outset that they were taxable. 
I am satisfied, based on evidence of his correspondence with PSS at the time, up to his 
complaint and thereafter, that the matter caused Mr C distress and inconvenience. The issue 
he was financially committed to addressing would, on its own, probably have been stressful for him, so I expect that news about the error in July and then having to clarify and resolve 
the tax issue with PSS and HMRC thereafter would probably have caused him additional 
distress. Having said this, it would be wrong to hold PSS responsible for all the above. It had 
nothing to do with Mr Cs personal financial commitment or any distress that caused him.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons I do not consider that PSS should have to 
offer Mr C any more than the £1,000 it has proposed. The proposal covers the service failure 
inherent in its error and the distress and inconvenience that caused him, and it is possible 
that I might not have awarded as much as £1,000 if no offer had been made. I conclude on 
the understanding that PSS stands by its offer and will pay Mr C £1,000 if he accepts this 
decision. With regards to the punitive type of award that Mr C appears to have asked for, this 
service does not have a punitive remit. We are not the industry regulator and the awards we 
make generally relate to compensation for financial loss and/or compensation for trouble, 
distress, upset and/or inconvenience caused to a complaint. They do not extend to awards 
aimed at punishing a firm.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman