DRN-3689178
The complaint
Mr G complained that Klarna Bank AB (publ) said there was still a sum outstanding on his 
loan with them, even though he believed hed paid in full.
What happened
In mid-2021, Mr G bought a new mobile phone.  He paid a deposit and signed a credit 
agreement with Klarna for the balance, which required him to make monthly payments.       
Mr G made these regularly, often for more than the minimum required.  
In November 2021, he paid what he thought was the remaining outstanding balance.  But, 
following this, Klarna said there was £50 still to pay.
Mr G complained to Klarna.  He said that Klarna hadnt given credit for a payment of £50 
which had left his account on 3 November.  And he was dissatisfied with the contact hed 
had with Klarna to try and resolve this  specifically, that the information hed been given 
about his payments didnt make sense.
Klarna investigated Mr Gs complaint.  They acknowledged their team hadnt properly 
explained the payments hed made to them and said theyd provide the relevant teams with 
feedback to improve customer service.
But Klarna said there was still a sum of £50 outstanding and provided a schedule of the 
payments theyd received.  They said:
Please be informed that we cannot fully uphold the complaint as the payment that was 
debited from your bank account on 03 November 2021 was the payment you made on 29 
October 2021. The payment that is reflected on our end is not when the payment was 
actually debited from your bank account but rather when you made/initiated the payment. 
This is to ensure that the payment you made will not be considered as a late payment since 
it has to go through the BACS process of at least 3 business days before the payment gets 
debited from your bank account.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Klarnas response and brought his complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded Klarna didnt need to do any more to resolve it.  He 
was satisfied that £50 remained outstanding for the phone.
After the investigator shared his view with the parties, Mr G got further information from his 
bank, which persuaded him he still had £50 to pay.  And checks he made with credit 
reference agencies satisfied him no adverse entries had been made on his credit file.  But he 
told the investigator he thought that, had the information been presented to him by Klarna in 
a clearer way, there would have been no need to complain.  He said he thought Klarna 
should compensate him for this by waiving the £50 due and recording the account as settled.
The investigator relayed this to Klarna, who declined to settle the complaint like this.  So Ive 
now been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Im pleased to see that a number of issues Mr G brought to our service have now been 
resolved.  So Ive focused my decision on what remains outstanding  namely, the 
communication around what payments had been made, and whether Klarna should 
compensate Mr G.
And we only award compensation if were satisfied that a business has made a mistake  
and that mistake has had a negative impact on its customer.  Using financial services isnt 
always problem free  and we dont direct businesses to pay compensation just because a 
customer has had to complain to get something sorted out.
Ive quoted the explanation Klarna sent Mr G above.  Ive studied what that says.   I agree 
its not the most clearly written explanation of the payment.  But I do think its clear that the 
£50 payment Mr G made in early November is the same £50 receipt that appears on his 
Klarna statement on 29 October.  
And Ive seen examples of the messages Klarna sent Mr G when payments were scheduled.  
These confirm when money will be taken from his account and the payment date  which is 
earlier.  For the payment in dispute, Ive seen the message says that payment will be taken 
on 3 November for the payment date of 29 October.  I think that message makes the position 
clear  and is consistent with the information recorded on Mr Gs Klarna statement.
So I cant agree the information he received from Klarna was so confusing that it was 
impossible to establish what payments he made.  And, on the basis that Klarna didnt do 
anything wrong, I cant say they should compensate Mr G by waiving the outstanding £50, or 
otherwise.  Nor do they need to do any more to resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint about Klarna Bank AB 
(publ).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman