DRN-3955788
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Inclusive Finance Limited trading as Creditspring didnt treat her fairly 
when she borrowed from it.
What happened
Mrs S applied for membership with Creditspring in March 2022. The membership cost £8 a 
month and was to last for 12 months. In this time Mrs S could borrow up to £500 with no 
additional costs such as interest or charges. 
Mrs S applied for her first loan in March. This was for £250 to be repaid over six months. 
She made payments in May and June, and an early repayment amount of £157.04 in late 
June. Later that month Mrs S took out a second loan of £250.  
Mrs S told Creditspring in July that she needed a payment holiday for August to cover 
annual school costs. Creditspring offered Mrs S a months payment holiday as requested 
and she made her monthly payment of £41.70 in September. 
Mrs S then complained to Creditspring that it should not have allowed her to open the 
account as she had a large amount of existing debt which she was having problems 
repaying. Creditspring said that it completed appropriate checks before approving Mrs S for 
credit and did not uphold her complaint. It offered Mrs S a reduced payment plan, and she 
made payments under this in October and November 2022. 
Mrs S referred her complaint to us and our investigator looked into it. They found that 
Creditspring should have seen from the information it had that Mrs S was likely to have 
difficulty repaying any more credit. They recommended that her complaint be upheld and 
that Creditspring pays her compensation. 
Creditspring didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to 
an ombudsman to decide and its come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending which 
lenders, such as Creditspring, need to abide by. Creditspring will be aware of these, and our 
approach to this type of lending is set out on our website, so I wont refer to the regulations 
in detail here but will summarise them. 
Before entering into a credit agreement, Creditspring needed to check that Mrs S could 
afford to meet her repayments out of her usual means for the term of the loan, without 
having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse 
consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the 
amount borrowed, for example) and to Mrs Ss circumstances. 
The overarching requirement was that Creditspring needed to pay due regard to Mrs Ss 
interests and treat her fairly. The regulations gave an example of contravening this as 
targeting customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by 
virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my considerations are did Creditspring complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when it opened the account for Mrs S to satisfy itself that she would be 
able to repay the credit offered? If it didnt do this, what would reasonable and proportionate 
checks have shown and, ultimately, did Creditspring treat Mrs S fairly? 
Creditspring said it asked Mrs S about her finances and cross-checked what shed said 
against information from her credit file. Mrs S said her income was £3,250 a month and her 
expenses came to just under £200, including £50 a month on repaying existing debt. 
Creditspring said the credit file information it gathered showed that Mrs S had paid £850 
towards unsecured debt the previous month and £1,158 towards secured debt, a total of just 
over £2,000. It said this still left Mrs S with over £1,000 disposable income and it concluded 
the loan would be affordable for her. 
In response to our investigators findings, Creditspring said that Mrs Ss secured debt 
payment was likely to be her mortgage payment and that the credit would still be affordable 
for her, given what shed said about her other expenses. It said that there was no evidence 
Mrs S was in a formal debt management arrangement for any of her existing debt and any 
arrangements reported on her credit file might have been payment holidays, for example. 
Creditspring might have been correct in these assumptions however, I think it should have 
realised that it didnt have the full picture of Mrs Ss circumstances. It seems inconsistent to 
me that Mrs S would actually have this level of disposable income each month and wish to 
pay to have access to half this amount over a year. In addition there was a significant 
difference between what Mrs S told Creditspring about her monthly debt payments and what 
it saw from her credit file, which was that she was spending over 60% of her declared 
income on repaying existing debt or over a quarter on unsecured debt. I note that 
Creditspring knew Mrs S was working part-time and that the credit file information it saw 
showed unsecured debts of over £32,000 with payment arrangements for three accounts. 
Ive found, as our investigator did, that Creditspring should have been concerned about 
Mrs Ss ability to meet further credit given the level of her existing debt relative to what shed 
said about her means. Ive concluded that it treated Mrs S unfairly when it agreed credit for 
her on the basis of the information it had.
In addition, I dont think any more information about Mrs Ss circumstances would have 
reassured Creditspring that she would be able to repay the credit without difficulty. Mrs S 
has provided snapshots of her credit file and her bank statements from the time, which I 
think are reasonable to rely on to give me an understanding of what any further checks might 
have revealed.
Mrs S had an outstanding balance of over £19,000 on a loan and the remainder of her 
unsecured debt was on revolving credit accounts such as credit and store cards. Her bank 
statements show that her regular income was less than £1,000 a month around that time. 
Mrs S also received child benefit payments and money from her husband to contribute to the 
household living costs, which were higher than these amounts. The statements confirm that 
Mrs S was in a formal debt management plan with a private company and was also making 
a regular payment to repay a personal debt. Altogether, Ive concluded that Creditspring would have declined to lend to Mrs S if it had a better understanding of her circumstances at 
the time. 
In summary, Creditspring should have seen from the information it had that Mrs S was 
unlikely to be able to repay this credit without difficulty, given the extent of her existing debts, 
and it shouldnt have opened an account for her. Any further checks would likely have led to 
a decline. 
Putting things right
Ive concluded that Creditspring was irresponsible to open an account for Mrs S so she 
shouldnt have to pay any fees or charges for the money she borrowed. To put things right 
for her, Creditspring should:
a) Cap the amount Mrs S has to repay to the capital she borrowed, in other words £500; 
and
oIf Mrs S has paid more than this Creditspring needs to refund these 
overpayments to her along with 8% simple interest per annum* from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement of this complaint. In this case 
Creditspring needs to remove any negative information about this account 
from Mrs Ss credit file; or
oIf Mrs S has not yet repaid the capital, then Creditspring needs to treat her 
fairly and with forbearance and due consideration regarding her outstanding 
capital balance. This may mean coming to an affordable repayment plan with 
her. Once the loan capital has been repaid, then Creditspring should remove 
any negative information about this account from her credit file. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Creditspring to take off tax from this interest. 
Creditspring must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I am upholding Mrs Ss complaint about Inclusive 
Finance Limited trading as Creditspring and require it to put things right for her as Ive set 
out. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023. 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman