DRN-1951189
The complaint
Mr T complains about the settlement offered by U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill 
Car Insurance (UKI), following a claim made under his motor insurance policy. 
Reference to UKI include its agents. 
What happened
Mr T was unfortunately involved in a car accident in September 2019. So UKI recovered the 
vehicle and decided itd be written off. UKI offered to send him a cheque for £7,000. It said 
this figure reflected the market value of his vehicle immediately prior to the date of loss. 
UKI said it reached this figure after referring to the motor trade guides and also provided an 
online advert of a vehicle it considered to be similar to Mr Ts. 
Mr T disputed this amount. He said his vehicle had additional extras including a tow bar, 
leather seats and a cool climate pack as well as others. He provided UKI with several online 
adverts and thought UKI should increase its offer. UKI later increased its offer to £7,450 
which it said included the tow bar. 
Mr T remained unhappy and said he couldnt replace his vehicle with a like-for-like 
replacement based on its offer. So, he brought a complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. She used the motor trade guides and 
said she was more persuaded by these than online adverts. She said she included the 
added extras when referring to one of the guides, but thought UKIs offer was fair and 
reasonable based on what she found. She did consider the online adverts Mr T provided, but 
said she was more persuaded by the valuations given by the guides, and so she didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr T didnt agree with our investigator. He said the motor trade guides only produce trade 
prices rather than retail prices for consumers to purchase a new vehicle. He also said as our 
investigator used the guides some eight months after the loss, these wouldnt have given a 
fair market value from the time of loss. Mr T said hes now replaced his vehicle at a cost of 
£10,200 for a similar vehicle but with 10,000 miles less. 
Our investigator responded to Mr T to explain the trade price and market value is the same, 
and the guides enabled her to input the date of loss to find valuation figures, rather than the 
date the guides were used. 
As Mr T disagreed with our investigators view, he asked for the case to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our investigators view for broadly similar reasons. I 
appreciate this will come to disappoint Mr T, so Ill explain why. 
The terms and conditions of the policy say, in the event of a total loss claim, UKI has: 
 the option to: 
pay to repair the damage or repair the damage ourselves; 
replace what is lost or damaged, if this is more cost-effective than repairing it; 
or 
settle your claim by sending you a cheque or by bank transfer 
We will not pay more than the market value of your car at the time of the loss 
(less any excess that may apply). 
The policy defines the market value as: 
the cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model and of 
similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss. 
This means that UKI is required to pay the policyholder the amount the vehicle was worth at 
the time the loss occurred. 
Its important to explain here that my role isnt to provide what I consider to be a fair market 
value at the time of the loss. My role is to decide whether I think UKI has applied the policy 
terms when reaching its valuation figure and if it has done so in a fair and reasonable way. 
Based on what Ive seen I think it has. 
This type of complaint is common, and this service has a well-established approach to 
considering them. We start by looking at the motor trade guides. We find these guides more 
persuasive than other methods of valuing vehicles  such as online adverts. This is because 
the guides are based on extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices, as opposed to 
a sellers preferred asking price. 
I note UKI used the motor trade guides during the process of providing Mr T with a fair 
market value of his vehicle under the policy. Our investigator was able to produce four 
valuations. She discounted one of these as its only relevant where the event happened 
within the last three months. Im in agreement with this approach. So, Ive turned to the other 
three guides which gave the following valuations:
Cazana - £8,084 
CAP  £6,456
Glasss - £7,500 
These checks found that UKIs offer was within the range of the valuations provided by the 
guides. So, I dont consider UKI has acted unfairly in reaching the value it has.
Mr T didnt think the valuations our investigator found were fair and reasonable. I note that 
he thought these provided trade values rather than a retail price. But I dont agree. The 
guides provide nationwide research into likely selling prices, based on advertised prices and 
auction prices to work out what likely selling prices would have been, whether bought by 
trade or retail customers. Mr T also raised concerns about the time between the date of the loss and our investigator 
using the motor trade guides. The guides enable a user to select a date of loss and, in turn, 
provide a valuation based on likely selling prices from that date, rather than when the guides 
are used. So I dont agree this has had any bearing on the valuations given by the guides. In 
fact, it is for this reason that one of the valuations have been excluded  because it doesnt 
give values from more than three months ago.
Ive given a lot of thought to the online advert UKI provided, along with the several adverts 
Mr T provided. Mr Ts adverts ranged from £8,700 to £10,000. I note these vehicles also 
ranged in terms of age, mileage and added extras. But the guides provide a valuation based 
on the actual mileage, condition and added extras Mr Ts vehicle had at the time of loss. 
Online adverts are based on a sellers preferred asking price which can often be inflated to 
allow an amount for negotiation whereas the guides provide extensive research of likely 
selling prices. I therefore place more evidence on the motor trade guides for these reasons. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied UKIs settlement offer for the market value of Mr 
Ts car at the time of its loss was fair according to our approach and the policys terms and 
conditions. So I dont require UKI to increase this. 
I know Mr T will be disappointed with this outcome and says he will go to the press and 
consider a legal challenge. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve his dispute 
with UKI  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman