DRN-1615511
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a car finance agreement payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 2007. Mr E says ACF Car Finance Limited (ACF) mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Briefly:
In 2007 Mr E took out a PPI policy in connection with a car finance agreement. ACF says 
that while Mr E applied for the finance over the phone, he took out PPI during a meeting in a 
showroom.
The policy provided protection for Mr E's finance payments in the event he couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment - it also offered life cover. The policy would 
pay out for the length of the finance agreement if required for an accident / sickness claim 
and up to 12 months per claim for unemployment. In the event of Mr E's death the 
outstanding finance would be paid off.  
The policy in question was a single premium policy, so its basic cost was added to the loan 
where it attracted interest. The total cost of the PPI assuming the agreement ran to term was 
around £3,300 - this equated to a monthly cost of just under £70.
At the time of the sale Mr E was employed, and he said he was entitled to less than three 
months' sick pay. He said he had about the same amount in savings and also that he 
could've relied on family to make his repayments. He said he was in good health at the time.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely Mr E chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for him.
Because Mr E, through his representative, disagrees the complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant 
here in deciding Mr E's complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer he was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr E's complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mr E have a choice about PPI? 
did he agree to take it out?ACF doesn't have all the paperwork from the time of the sale - it's provided examples of 
some of it. And this isn't surprising given it's more than 10 years since Mr E took out the 
policy.
Looking at these alongside what Mr E says happened, I think on balance ACF did make it 
clear enough that Mr E didn't have to take out PPI. In reaching this conclusion I'm mindful of 
the following:
The decision to lend Mr E the finance was made and communicated to him before he 
was sold PPI
The credit agreement set out the cost of the PPI separately from the main 'goods' 
cost
The example full credit agreement indicates that Mr E would've been asked to tick a 
box and sign separately to agree to take out PPI
ACF's sales process document prompts the representative to describe the PPI as 
being optional. 
 
So in the absence of persuasive evidence that something very different happened in Mr E's 
case, I think Mr E chose to take out PPI, and that he likely did so without undue pressure.
the advice
ACF says it recommended the PPI to Mr E. This means ACF had to check that the PPI was 
right for Mr E. And while based on what I've seen I don't think ACF did everything it should 
reasonably have done when it provided advice to Mr E, based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think it was nevertheless suitable for him. For example, he was 
eligible for the cover; he wasn't affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover 
such as those for existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.
I've also not seen evidence which leads me to think that Mr E told ACF - or that ACF ought 
reasonably to have known - that he intended to repay the finance early before the end of the 
term. So, while ACF might not have taken into account the fact that the policy didn't offer a 
pro-rata refund when giving its advice, I'm satisfied Mr E didn't need flexibility of 
arrangements - the policy wasn't therefore unsuitable.
Mr E says he was in a position to secure his payments through his existing means. But he 
also told us he was only entitled to sick pay of less than three months and savings of around 
the same amount. So I think Mr E would've quickly come under some financial pressure 
had the insured risks become a reality for him and for an extended period. I therefore think 
Mr E had a need for cover and it would have helped him out at what would likely be a difficult 
and perhaps uncertain time. I don't think t was wrong for ACF to have recommended PPI to 
Mr E.
the information  
I accept its possible the information ACF gave Mr E about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
shouldve been. For example, I've not seen enough to persuade me that Mr E was clearly 
told about the significant exclusions to and limits of cover, or that all the specific cost 
information associated with a single premium policy was given in a clear and timely manner - 
albeit I think Mr E had enough to understand the cost was being added to the loan upfront.
But as I found above, I think he likely chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover. And as I also said above it doesn't appear that it was inappropriate for him - it 
seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. I haven't seen anything to show it was unaffordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put Mr E off taking out the cover. 
conclusion
While ACF might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done when it 
sold Mr E PPI, in light of his circumstances at the time I think the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him. And because it wasn't wrong for him and I think it could've proved useful to 
him, I don't think better information would've put him off taking it out.
This means I dont think Mr E has lost out as a result of having PPI, so ACF doesn't have to 
pay back to Mr E what he paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mr E and his representative has said - including what they said 
in response to the adjudicator's assessment. But these points dont change my decision. For 
the reasons I've set out above, I don't uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, I decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no 
award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman