DRN-3797704
The complaint
Ms P complains National House-Building Council (NHBC) has unfairly declined her Building 
Warranty claim.
All references to NHBC also include its appointed agents.
Ms P is being represented by Mr P. For ease, I will refer to Mr P below.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Under section 3 of the warranty, in years three to ten, NHBC will pay the cost of 
putting right any physical damage caused by a defect. This list isnt exhaustive 
however, so it wont cover every single issue that could come up in a new build 
property.
Its not in dispute the rendering hasnt been applied in line with the manufacturers 
guidance. But Im not persuaded there is physical damage caused by this defect.
While there is ghosting on the gable side of the house, NHBC have suggested this 
could be attributed to cracking cause by thermal movement. And Ive not seen any 
evidence that supports that this is due to the application of the render or that it would 
constitute physical damage as set out by the policy.
Ive considered what Mr P has said about the potential impact the rendering 
application could have in coming years. But the warranty provides cover for a defect 
causing physical damage, and at that particular time. So should a claim be 
successful, this wouldnt necessarily mean the rendering would be removed and 
completely replaced as suggested by Mr P.
Ive also considered NHBC have provided a costed scope of works in the event 
repairs were carried out. I can see its costing falls below the minimum claim value set 
out in the warranty. So, repairs would not be undertaken in any event. Ive not seen 
any alternative costing or sufficient evidence that persuades me this is obviously 
wrong. 
So, considering everything Ive set out above, I wont be interfering in NHBCs 
decision to decline the claim.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman