DRN-1542991
The complaint
Mr H complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited have declined the 
claim he made on his pet insurance.
What happened
Mr Hs vet said they noticed a tumour on his dog. The vet carried out the procedure to 
remove the lump, which cost a total of £1,385.01. Mr H says he asked the vet whether he 
thought hed be covered under his insurance. The reason he asked is because the insurance 
policy excludes all treatment for dental and gums. Mr Hs says his vet said he would be 
covered, because the lump was on his dogs jaw. Later on, there was a continuation of the 
claim, and a further claim form was sent to Red Sands for £87.22.
Red Sands turned down Mr Hs overall claim, saying theres a general exclusion on the 
policy for any dental or gum treatment, including root canal treatment, and any investigation 
costs leading up to the diagnosis. 
Mr H complained the same day as being told this. He said his dogs condition was a 
cancerous tumour growing on her jaw, nothing to do with dental, gums or gingivitis. 
Following this Red Sands replied and said the claim was still turned down because of the 
exclusion for dental and gum treatment.
 
Mr Hs vet then wrote to Red Sands and explained in his professional opinion the 
development of the tumour was not as a result of gum or dental disease. But rather it started 
in the ligaments. He asked Red Sands to review the claim.
Red Sands did, but said as the mass is of gingival origin, theyre unable to overturn the 
claim. They then followed this up with a complaint response  and said the lump was tested, 
and found to be specific to the gum, ligaments and bone area. They said because of this, it 
falls under the general exclusion for gum treatment, as this is the only area of the body in 
which it appears.
Unhappy with that, Mr H asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so and felt 
Red Sands had fairly applied the exclusion for dental and gum treatment as outlined in the 
policy. Because of that she didnt think Red Sands should meet the cost of the claim.
Mr H disagreed with this. He said he was fully aware of the exclusion and asked the vet 
about it before going ahead with treatment. The vet told him it was a solid cancerous tumour 
growing directly from his dogs jaw  so wouldnt be considered under the gum or dental 
exclusion. Mr H said theres lots of mentions of gum in our investigators outcome, but few 
mentions of jaw which is where the problem originated from. He added that Red Sands have 
said this condition is common, but his vet with many years of experience says its very rare  
and hed never seen one before. Because Mr H didnt agree with the investigators outcome, 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Red Sands have relied on a general exclusion in their policy which says Any dental or gum 
treatment including root canal treatment  and said the operation came under this 
exclusion.
Mr H though has relied on the information from his vet  who has told him this wouldnt be 
considered as dental and gum, so it would be covered under the policy terms. Hes also said 
this was an operation on the jaw, so doesnt understand why this is being classed as dental 
and gum treatment.
I think its probably helpful to explain at this point that although the intention of the operation 
is to remove a mass on the jaw bone, if there was a significant amount of dental or gum work 
needed then its probably fair for the exclusion to be applied.
To help me decide this Ive looked at all the notes recorded. The vets notes record the 
following information:
3 October 2019  lump p gingival solid
29 October 2019  will likely be taking out 201, 202 and 203 with maxialla
So, the first note records the mass as gingival which is coming from the gums. And the 
second note records that, as part of the operation to remove and shorten the jaw bone, 
theyll probably need to take out some teeth  this is the reference to 201, 202 and 203.
These notes were recorded prior to the operation, and appear to support Red Sands 
argument, that there was dental and gum treatment carried out.
After the surgery, the vets asked for a histological diagnosis  this will explain what the 
mass actually was. These notes say its a peripheral odontogenic fibroma. In other words, it 
was a mass on the gum ligaments which hold the teeth in place  which also seems to 
support the claim being turned down.
After Red Sands had told Mr H they werent going to meet his claim, the vet drew 
Red Sands attention to this report  and explains in their professional opinion the 
development of the tumour wasnt related to gum or dental disease. Instead, it was an 
abnormal mass growth, starting in a ligament, and involving the bone.
After the case was passed to me, we asked the vets for more information  whether they did 
remove any teeth, and if so, how much time was spent on that, versus time spent on the 
bone. The vets replied, and said they didnt take out the teeth individually, they came out 
when they took the bone out.
I appreciate the vets have said they dont think this was related to dental or gum disease. 
But this appears to contradict the histology report  which says it was a mass on the gum 
ligaments. And the actual operation had to involve dental and gum treatment, to get to the 
bone and remove the mass.
I understand why Mr H feels so strongly about this issue. And Ive got significant sympathy 
for the situation he finds himself in. But taking everything into account, I think Red Sands 
have fairly relied on their dental and gum exclusion, and I wont be ordering them to pay 
Mr Hs claim.My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman