DRN-4062770
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from Capital One (Europe) plc.
What happened
In May 2022 Mr M called Capital One to obtain an estimate of the interest due to be charged 
on his next credit card statement. He was told approximately £32. But when his statement 
came through, he was charged around £66.19. This took him over his credit limit and Mr M 
was concerned about incurring an over limit fee and the impact on his credit file. Mr M says 
his call to Capital One was intended to prevent this situation. He also says he experienced 
problems with Capital Ones complaint process.
Capital One explained to Mr M - in a telephone call, that the interest charged was correct 
due to him requesting a change in his payment dates. It said that the over limit fee wouldnt 
be charged as it was interest  not a transaction, that had taken Mr M over his credit limit. 
And it added that if Mr M made a payment to bring his account back under the credit limit, 
there would be no adverse impact on credit file. But Capital One accepted it had given 
incorrect information to Mr M when he called, and it offered him some compensation by way 
of an apology. 
Mr M subsequently contacted Capital One again due to issues he experienced with its 
complaint process. And Capital One paid further compensation. Unhappy with Capital Ones 
overall response, Mr M referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into it. He agreed that the reason interest was more than   
Mr M had been told was due to Mr M making previous requests to change his payment date. 
And he thought by paying Mr M £125 compensation in recognition of it providing incorrect 
information, Capital One had resolved the complaint fairly. So, he didnt think Capital One 
needed to take any further action in respect of this complaint. 
Mr M didnt agree that Capital One had paid him £125 compensation for this complaint. He 
said some of the compensation he received related to other complaints hed raised with 
Capital One. He said Capital One had paid him £50 compensation for providing wrong 
information, and a further £50 was paid for issues raised relating to how his complaint had 
been handled.   
The investigator looked into this and made further enquiries with Capital One. But, ultimately, 
having considered the matter further, the investigator wasnt minded to change the overall 
outcome he had originally reached. He felt £50 compensation fairly reflected the 
inconvenience Mr M experienced having been given wrong information. 
But he said that complaint handling wasnt a regulated activity so he couldnt comment on 
the compensation paid by Capital One in that respect.
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint, so his complaint has been passed 
to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I appreciate 
Mr M will be disappointed as I can see he feels strongly that Capital One has let him down. 
So, Ill explain why. 
But firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Ms complaint points and his responses to 
the investigator. And Im not going to respond to every single point made by him. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects 
the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I 
havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual point to be able to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Mr M hasnt complained about the amount of the interest he was charged. Rather the crux of 
his complaint is about being given wrong information about the amount of interest due to be 
charged on his next statement. But for clarity I have looked at this. And Ive found that Mr M 
made several requests to change his payment due date. Consequently, a statement in     
April 2022 wasnt issued. Overall, Im satisfied that this explains why the interest was roughly 
double when the next statement was produced - it included interest since the last statement 
was issued i.e., approximately two months worth of interest. So, I dont find that Capital One 
did anything wrong when it applied interest of £66.19.
Its not in dispute that Mr M was given the wrong information when he called to check what 
interest was due on his next statement. And I accept that Mr M made these enquiries as he 
wanted to budget his spending to avoid exceeding his limit. So, Ive thought about the impact 
this had on Mr M. 
As a result of the wrong information being given Mr M spent more than the available credit 
on his account. But, as I understand it, an over limit fee wasnt charged and as Mr M made a 
payment to his account his credit file hasnt been adversely impacted. But I accept that Mr M 
was caused some inconvenience as he had to contact Capital One on receipt of his 
statement to clarify matters. So, I agree that compensation is due.
Ive seen that there has been some confusion about what compensation has been paid to  
Mr M in relation to this specific complaint. In response to our investigators further enquiries, 
Capital One has confirmed it paid £50 in relation to the incorrect information it provided and 
£50 for inconvenience during the complaint process. It said any other compensation paid 
related to other complaints. Im satisfied that these amounts are line with what Mr M 
confirmed to the investigator. 
Having thought about the impact on Mr M  contacting Capital One when he realised he had 
been given wrong information, I find that £50 compensation is fair given there was no impact 
on his credit file and a fee wasnt levied. So, I wont be asking Capital One to pay any further 
compensation for this error.   
         
I understand that Mr M is also unhappy about problems he encountered with Capital Ones 
complaint process. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. As a general rule, if the 
complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to look into things. But 
where complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, then we may look into how 
the complaint was handled if what the business did has further impacted the crux of the 
complaint. But here the crux of Mr Ms complaint is about incorrect information given over the phone. 
So, I cant say the issue which Mr M raised about the complaint handling is part of the crux 
of his complaint. So, as the investigator explained, we cant look into the complaint handling 
part of his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman