DRN-2860498
The complaint
Mr G complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA applied a refund to his credit account in 
a way that disadvantaged him. 
What happened
Mr G holds a credit account with PayPal. In October 2020 he made a purchase using that 
credit account. He decided to return part of the purchase and so he received a refund into 
his account. But when Mr G checked his account, he noticed PayPal hadnt allocated the 
refund to the payment hed made but to two earlier payments, even though these earlier 
payments had an interest rate of 0% that wasnt due to expire until about 18 months later. 
Mr G wasnt happy with this as the recent purchase hed made had an interest rate of 0% 
that was due to expire in four months  much sooner than the expiry date of the balance 
PayPal had applied the refund to. Mr G thought this was unfair and so he complained.  
PayPal said its system automatically allocates payments in a way that is most cost effective 
to the account holder. It said it was unable to change the way payments were allocated. It 
said Mr G received the refund before the purchase was showing on his statement, which 
was why the refund was allocated towards the previous purchases on his statement. It said it 
was satisfied it had followed correct procedures and had acted in line with Mr Gs credit 
agreement. Mr G remained unhappy and approached this service.
Our investigator didnt think PayPal had acted fairly. She noted the terms and conditions of 
Mr Gs credit agreement said that where two promotional balance transactions have the 
same interest rate, any payments will be allocated to the one expiring soonest. She thought 
PayPal had failed to do this and instead had applied the refund to the transaction with the 
longest repayment terms. She thought PayPal should pay Mr G £150 for impact it had 
caused. 
Mr G accepted the investigators view but PayPal didnt agree. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant part of Mr Gs credit agreement with PayPal is section 2.7. This says that 
payments will be allocated in order from the balance subject to the highest interest rate to 
the balance subject to the lowest interest rate. PayPal has confirmed that refunds are 
applied in the same way as payments. The terms of the agreement go on to say that where 
there are two promotional balance transactions with the same interest rate, the one that 
expires soonest will be repaid first. 
Mr G said that didnt happen in his case. The refund he received was allocated to a 
transaction with the same interest rate that expired later. So, it hadnt been applied to the 
promotional balance transaction that expired soonest.
PayPal said that was because the more recent transaction hadnt appeared on Mr Gs 
statement at that time and so its system had applied the refund to the soonest expiring offer 
on Mr Gs account, which was the previous transaction, not the most recent one. Theres 
conflicting evidence on this point as PayPal has also said the purchase showed on Mr Gs 
statement before the refund was received. But, whatever the case, I dont think PayPal has 
acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of its credit agreement with Mr G. It said 
it would allocate payments to the promotional balance that expires soonest and, in this 
instance, it hasnt done that.
The impact on Mr G was that he had less time to pay his balance before incurring interest 
charges on his account. He said hed paid the balance on each transaction in full to avoid 
that happening. But that had meant hed had to pay back more each month than he 
otherwise would have done. He said he works full time and is also a student so needs to 
save money to pay for tuition fees and other living costs. He was annoyed that PayPals 
actions meant hed had to pay his balance sooner than hed expected and that had left him 
with less money to live on.
Putting things right
In light of the above, Im satisfied PayPals actions disadvantaged Mr G. He had to make 
financial decisions he wouldnt otherwise have needed to make and I think PayPal need to 
do more to recognise the impact Mr G has described above. In the particular circumstances 
of this case, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do is for PayPal to pay Mr G £150 to 
recognise the impact of its poor service.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and direct PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA to 
pay Mr G £150 for the trouble and upset its caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman