DRN-2074209
The complaint
Mr B complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) has failed to adequately repair or 
replace his boiler following multiple breakdowns, under his home emergency insurance 
policy.
What happened
In September 2017, BG carried out a repair on Mr Bs boiler following a breakdown. In July 
2018, Mr B had cause to call BG out again as the boiler had broken down. On that occasion 
its engineer cleaned various parts. But soon afterwards the boiler broke down again and new 
parts were fitted to the boiler.
In October 2018 the same fault occurred following another boiler breakdown. The engineer 
advised that a filter would need to be installed as sludge was present. Mr B pointed out that 
a filter had already been installed to which the engineer said no further action was needed. 
In December 2018 another engineer attended following another boiler breakdown for the 
same fault. He advised a power flush. Mr B instructed a third-party engineer to power flush 
the boiler, which happened a few days later. But in February 2019, the boiler broke down 
again. BG attended and replaced the pump but two days following this repair, the boiler 
broke down again for the same reasons as before.  
BG told Mr B that damage to the boiler was caused by sludge and he would need another 
power flush. It also said that due to the presence of sludge, further claims may not be 
covered until Mr B proved the boiler had been re-flushed.  Mr B was unsure about this 
advice and sought a second opinion. He contacted another third-party engineer to see if 
another power flush would resolve the problem, to be told that his boiler was beyond 
economic repair (BER) and another power flush wouldnt have worked.
Mr B raised a complaint as he felt that BGs advice was contrary to the terms and conditions 
and he wanted a refund of the cost of the power flush. In its final response, BG confirmed 
that it wouldnt reimburse any of the costs because Mr B had refused to carry out a second 
power flush and it closed the case. It did offer to pay Mr B £50 by way of a goodwill gesture 
for the inconvenience it had caused. 
Consequently, Mr B paid for a new boiler to be installed as there was no heating or hot water 
and he referred a complaint to our service, seeking reimbursement for the new boiler and a 
refund of the power flush that he had paid for. 
Ultimately our investigator upheld his complaint on the basis that BG shouldve told Mr B 
much sooner that his boiler required a power flush and ought to have recognised that the 
boiler was BER. He said that Mr B did everything to resolve the complaint and BG should 
cover the cost of the new boiler and pay £100 for the trouble and upset it caused. 
BG didnt accept our investigators view. It said that it had advised Mr B to get another power 
flush due to the presence of sludge. And if he had done this it confirmed that it wouldve 
carried out any remedial work required. It also said that its terms and conditions didnt allow 
it to replace the boiler as sludge had been found and Mr B had refused to get another power 
flush done. BG asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision. 
I have read the policy document, schedule, job records and I have considered the parties 
comments. I think there are two specific aspects to this complaint. Firstly, whether BG failed 
to adequately repair the boiler. And secondly whether BG failed to recognise that the boiler 
was BER.  
I have reviewed the job records and I note that there were similar faults recorded on a few 
occasions. For example, various parts were repeatedly identified as requiring cleaning and 
on one occasion BG advised that a filter was required to prevent the build of sludge. On that 
occasion the engineer had missed that a filter had already been installed and previously 
cleaned. 
It wasnt until December 2018, after several previous call outs that BG advised a power flush 
to resolve the issues. Mr B followed BGs recommendation and had a power flush done. But 
unfortunately this didnt resolve the issue and the breakdowns continued. 
BG relied upon the following exclusion clause: 
What is not covered: Damage caused by limescale, sludge or other debris or if weve told 
you before that you need to carry out repairs, improvements or a British Gas power flush, or 
a similar process, but you havent done so
As it argued that Mr B refused to carry out a second power flush and so the issues with the 
boiler that it had identified were caused by sludge, meant that Mr Bs boiler was not covered. 
But I dont agree, and Ill explain why. 
There were a number of calls outs all for the same or similar issues. BG had identified the 
presence of sludge in the system. Mr B had carried out the recommended work including the 
power flush. The breakdowns continued and I think that once it became clear that these 
hadnt worked, BG were unreasonable not to have concluded that there was a fundamental 
issue with the boiler.   
In addition, BG has said that it couldnt comment on Mr Bs engineers opinion that a second 
power flush wouldnt have worked. In these circumstances I must consider the evidence as it 
stands. 
Mr B followed BGs recommendation and the power flush wasnt successful. He chose to 
replace the boiler without having a second power flush. He said that the third-party engineer 
advised him that another power flush wouldnt work and that since the new boiler has been 
installed, there have been no other breakdown issues for nearly a year. On balance, I am 
persuaded that a second power flush would likely not have been successful. 
I have next looked at whether BG failed to recognise that the boiler was BER. Having 
reviewed the terms and conditions there is no specific term regarding when or how BG 
assess whether a boiler is BER. I asked BG for its comments on how it would assess whether a boiler was BER. It said that it would continue to carry out repairs until there were 
no parts available and then it would replace the boiler as per the terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
But what is of note is that there were several call outs over a relatively short period for 
similar issues. Repairs were carried out that seemingly didnt resolve those issues. Mr B 
followed the recommendations as BG had advised regarding his boiler. So, I am persuaded 
by Mr Bs position that BG couldve identified that the boiler required a power flush much 
earlier and consequently that the boiler was BER, as the same issues kept happening.  
I have considered the terms of the policy and it says that: A replacement for your boiler if we 
cant repair it and: Its less than seven years old Mr B has provided proof of age of the 
boiler, which shows that it was under seven years old at the time of the claim. So I think that 
BG shouldve replaced the boiler as it was clear that it couldnt repair it. 
Mr B would like BG to pay for the power flush that it recommended he carry out. I havent 
been provided with any expert evidence from Mr B that says that the power flush wasnt 
appropriate for the boiler. BG says that it was needed. Although I except that ultimately it 
didnt appear to be successful, I cant say that it wasnt required. So, I dont think BG should 
reimburse Mr B the cost of the power flush that he had carried out. 
Putting things right
Taking everything together, I think BG treated Mr B unfairly. And I think a reasonable and fair 
settlement of this complaint would be for BG to reimburse the cost of the boiler that Mr B 
incurred, in line with the policy terms. And to pay £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint for the reasons given above. 
I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to: 
Reimburse the cost of the boiler that Mr B incurred, in line with the terms of the 
policy. 
Pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation and reimburse the cost of the 
boiler within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays 
later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation and premiums from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman