DRN-3039736
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC have closed her accounts without telling her 
why. 
What happened
In June 2021, Barclays wrote to Miss R explaining they were going to close the accounts she 
held with them. They gave her two months notice and said she would need to move her 
money elsewhere before the accounts were due to close in August 2021, as they wouldnt 
be providing her with any further banking services. 
Miss R complained and said not knowing why Barclays were closing her accounts would 
make her medical conditions worse. She said she had been made to feel like a criminal and 
wanted her accounts to stay open as she had never banked with anyone other than 
Barclays. In addition, she had another issue with Barclays in relation to a fraud case and it 
was making it very difficult for her to cope. 
Barclays said that following a review of Miss Rs accounts, they made the decision to close 
them. They explained that the closure was carefully considered and while it was subject to a 
strict internal process, they were unable to share this process with her. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Barclays had acted fairly. She explained that a bank 
is entitled to close an account, as long as they have complied with the account terms and 
conditions. Our investigator looked at the terms and explained that as Barclays had given 
Miss R two months notice, they were in line with their terms and so hadnt acted unfairly. 
Miss R disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed again. Because of this the 
complaint was passed to me. 
Given the timescales, our service asked whether Barclays would put the account closure on 
hold until Id completed my review. But Barclays explained that once the closure notice had 
been issued they were unable to put it on hold. Because of this, Miss Rs accounts have now 
been closed and £14.09 that remained in the accounts has been removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything I agree with the investigator for the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
As the investigator explained, a bank can decide to close an account at any time, in the 
same way a customer can. 
But if a bank intends to close an account, they should give enough notice so that the account 
holder can make alternative arrangements for their money and any payments due in and out 
of their account.
The terms and conditions of Miss Rs account state: 
We can close an account (and stop providing any services and end this agreement) by 
giving you at least two months notice. Any benefit or services linked to your account will 
stop at the same time.
I do appreciate what Miss R has said about her health conditions, and I dont doubt that this 
has aggravated them. Im really sorry to hear its had this impact on her. But Im not able to 
tell Barclays to reinstate Miss Rs accounts, as they are entitled to decide to close her 
account and have done so in line with the terms and conditions.
Barclays wrote to Miss R in June letting her know they were going to close her accounts in 
August. They gave the necessary time to allow her to transfer any money she held in the 
accounts elsewhere. I know it must be frustrating not knowing the reason for the closure, but 
Im unable to say that Barclays have acted unfairly in this instance. 
Because of this, I wont be asking Barclays to re-open Miss Rs accounts. 
I can see Miss Rs accounts have now been closed and that a balance of £14.09 has been 
removed. Barclays have explained that Miss R can access this money by visiting a local 
branch with two forms of ID, one being photographic. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman