DRN-4252210
The complaint
Mr M  who is represented by a CMC  complains Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to protect 
him from becoming the victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr M opened an account with Revolut in December 2022 and in the following two days 
made two card payments totalling just under £5,000 to a cryptocurrency exchange and a 
transfer for just over £8,500 to a cryptocurrency investment account. He did so having 
received several payments into his Revolut account. Mr M says he made these payments 
believing he was making deposits on which hed earn commission.
Mr M says he realised hed been scammed when he was asked to make a payment of 
£25,000. He complained to Revolut on 5 January 2023 saying that it hadnt done enough to 
protect him from being scammed.
Revolut looked into Mr Ms complaint and said that it could see its systems had flagged the 
final payment and that it had tried to contact Mr M several times  via online chat  to ask 
about the purpose of the payment, warning Mr M about some of the most common types of 
scam. Revolut said that Mr M didnt respond on the first two occasions, so it declined the 
payment twice. Revolut said that Mr M initiated the same transfer a short time later, said that 
he was helping a friend, who he trusted, that the payment was urgent and that he knew what 
he was doing. Revolut said that it allowed the payment to go ahead  having done checks 
and having warned Mr M about scams  and that it wasnt, therefore, going to uphold his 
complaint. Mr M was unhappy with Revoluts response, so he complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and said that it wasnt clear that hed 
been scammed  given the evidence wed been sent. In any event, they didnt think that 
further questioning would have uncovered that Mr M was being scammed or prevented him 
from making the payments. In the circumstances, our investigator didnt think it was fair to 
hold Revolut liable. Mr M disagreed and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint saying, amongst other things, that Mr M hadnt 
provided evidence that showed hed been scammed. Thats important if were going to 
uphold a complaint. In this case, however, theres no dispute that Revoluts systems 
identified the third payment as it one where there was a risk of Mr M being defrauded and 
that Revolut attempted to speak to Mr M several times  via its online chat  to check the 
purpose of the payment and to warn him about scams. I agree with our investigator  for the 
reasons Im about to give  that Revolut couldnt have done more in this particular case, so 
the question of whether or not this was a scam is one I dont have to ultimately decide.
In this case I can see  as Ive already mentioned  that Revoluts systems flagged the third 
payment because it identified the payment as one where there was a risk of Mr M being 
defrauded. Thats what I would have expected  hed only just opened his account so there 
was nothing to suggest that the first two payments were unusual, but the third payment 
arguably was. Revolut held the payment  marking it as pending  whilst it performed further 
checks which included contacting Mr M to ask him questions about the payment and warning 
him that scammers are using increasingly sophisticated techniques to gather personal 
information and convince customers to transfer funds in complex scams. Revolut warned 
that this could include exciting investment opportunities and other commons scams. I can 
see that Mr M didnt respond to Revoluts first two attempts to contact him, so it cancelled 
the payment twice only for Mr M to initiate it again. Revolut contacted Mr M again  in other 
words, for a third time  and this time he explained that he was making the transfer to a 
friend. Revolut asked Mr M if hed been told to ignore scam warnings when making 
payments as it could see hed said the transfer was a payment for goods and services. Mr M 
replied no and told Revolut that he was purchasing the products for friends who needed 
them and that it was urgent, that he was sure what he was doing and wanted to go ahead.
I agree with Mr Ms representative that the answers Mr M gave could have been questioned 
more as there were some discrepancies in what he said. And that he could have been asked 
more about his friend, what goods and services he was buying and why he was sending 
money to a cryptocurrency account instead of to his friend directly. But I also have to take 
account of what wed expect from a business like Revolut, and the fact that Mr M wasnt 
honest about the purpose of the transaction. Having done so, I agree with our investigator 
that Revolut wouldnt have managed to prevent Mr M from making these payments and that 
it wouldnt be fair to hold it liable. In other words, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman