DRN-3568296
The complaint
X complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled a claim 
under his home insurance policy. When I mention RSA, I also mean its suppliers and 
repairers.
What happened
X has a home insurance policy with RSA covering his home buildings and contents. In 
November 2019 Xs home suffered a water leak from the toilet soil sack resulting in dirty 
water flooding the downstairs of his home. 
X made a claim to RSA who inspected the property. RSAs inspector produced a report 
detailing the damage to Xs house including details of where the damage had happened, its 
recommendations to mitigate and repair some areas, and what needed to happen to Xs 
contents. X says RSA told him to expect like for like replacement of flooring and contents, 
as well as cleaning and help with boxes for clearing the ground floor contents.
RSA then sent out a specialist cleaning company, who Ill call R. There is some 
disagreement between RSA and X about exactly what was discussed with R. 
Ultimately, X initially cleaned his own home and packed up his own contents without any 
further assistance from R. 
X was also suffering from some health issues he thinks were caused by the damp and mould 
growing in his house and he told RSA about these.
RSA didnt contact him until in late January 2020 it sent X a cheque for £2,722 to settle his 
claim. X was confused about the amount of this cheque as it seemed to him to be worded 
that it was in settlement of his entire claim and he was expecting a much higher amount. X 
discussed this with RSA who asked X to get quotations for the work that needed doing on 
his buildings. 
X was a key worker under the covid lockdowns and became very busy with his work at this 
time. He didnt contact RSA again about the claim, and RSA didnt contact him about it until 
the cheque itd sent him expired in September 2020.
X then obtained two quotations for the repair work in late October 2020 and sent them to 
RSA in early November. RSA asked to inspect the damage in Xs house. X wasnt happy 
with this and asked RSA why this inspection was needed given that R had inspected it 
already about a year beforehand.
This was around the time of a covid lockdown and because of this, and RSAs adjuster not 
being able to assure X of the reasons why the inspection was needed, the inspection didnt 
happen. The relationship between X and RSAs claims handler also deteriorated with X 
feeling like he was being held responsible for delays in his claim and ultimately being given a 
final date at which he says RSA wouldnt consider his claim any further.
In December 2020 RSA asked for a valuation of the damaged contents. X provided this and 
RSA sent X the amount hed asked (£2,860 less his excess) for in respect of his contents 
claim.
X complained to RSA who partially upheld his complaint. It agreed with X that RSAs 
communications with him hadnt been satisfactory. But RSA maintained that it still needed to 
inspect Xs house to be in a position to move the buildings claim forward.
X remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service. An investigator looked into 
it and didnt uphold it. He said that he thought RSA could have been clearer with its claims 
process, but he didnt think that RSA had acted unfairly by asking for another inspection of 
the property.
X didnt agree with the view. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
In order to provide a final decision I have considered what took place at various points in the 
claim and will deal with them here in order:
Initial response
X contacted RSA to make the claim on 4 November 2019 and RSA carried out an inspection 
on 7 November. 
X had to ask for RSA to progress the claim on 20 November. I can see that X told RSA he 
had a chest infection he believed was from damp and mould from the leak. 
A specialist cleaning company, R, then attended on 3 December. 
R provided a report which says:
X stated he doesnt want anything to be done until the new year. R offered to box up 
the contents and put them into storage however X was reluctant to proceed and 
asked for some boxes to be dropped off so he can do this himself over Christmas.
And
R offered to sanitise the affected areas today but X refused and stated he has his 
own sanitising product that he gets from work.
X later disagreed with what R said. I can see from Xs own evidence that he spent the 
Christmas period boxing up his contents. 
He has told this service that he told R he would only be doing an initial clean using his own 
cleaning products and that he wanted R to return later and carry out more work.
Im not sure why R didnt return, or why RSA didnt ask him whether he needed more 
assistance. But given the likely scope of the claim with sewage leaking into the kitchen and 
living room I dont think its very good service that RSA left X to progress the claim 
apparently on his own and without engaging with him further.
I can see from RSAs policy wording that it provides cover for alternative accommodation. 
This service would generally consider a property uninhabitable if there are no kitchen, bathroom or toilet facilities, or if its unsafe to be lived in. 
The leak of sewage into a kitchen would, in my opinion, be serious enough to warrant an 
offer of alternative accommodation. But I cant see that RSA discussed this with X, even 
when he told it he was struggling with damp, mould and a chest infection.
I dont think its fair and reasonable for RSA to have not pro-actively offered X this facility, 
given that it accepted the claim as being valid.
Buildings claim
I can see from RSAs evidence that once X had provided two quotes for the building work in 
October 2020, the amount needed to settle the claim was above what RSAs supplier could 
agree, so the claim appears to have been passed back to RSA. 
RSAs loss adjuster contacted X and said RSA needed to inspect the buildings to validate 
the amount of the claim. In RSAs notes I can see comments that RSAs suppliers hadnt 
dealt with the early claim well which could explain why Xs quotes were higher than 
expected, meaning that RSA then needed to re-inspect the property some 12 months into 
the claim. 
I think its clear from RSAs information that RSAs loss adjuster was trying to communicate 
with X to get the buildings claim inspected, agreed and settled. I can also see that X didnt 
engage with RSAs loss adjuster well during this period, which lasted for about six more 
months. I can see X was struggling with some health issues during this time, but RSA were 
regularly contacting him to attempt to progress the claim.
X makes the point that RSAs supplier inspected the house in considerable detail in 
November 2019, so why does it need to do it again. I agree with X this may be inconvenient 
for him, but an insurer should be allowed to satisfy itself of the extent of the damage before it 
can agree to pay a claim. Given that some considerable time has passed, I dont think its 
unreasonable of RSA to ask for this survey to take place to update its estimates and agree 
with X what needs to happen, and what RSA will pay for under his policy.
Delays
Its my understanding from the evidence I have that the claim is still ongoing some 30 
months after the leak was discovered, and I dont think this is a reasonable state of affairs for 
X to be in.
I think its clear from the notes about the early part of the claim that RSAs suppliers didnt 
progress the claim well. This early stage does seem to have affected the decisions RSA 
were able to make in the later stages.
There seems to have been a great deal of confusion internally about several aspects of the 
claim, which ultimately meant the claim wasnt progressed until X chased up RSA. 
I dont think RSAs suppliers communicated effectively with X and I dont think it did enough 
to identify him as being vulnerable because of the type of damage that had happened and 
the medical conditions he reported hed contracted since the leak happened. 
I think RSA should have dealt with Xs claim as a priority, including offering him alternative 
accommodation.
When RSA did contact X, such as when it sent him the cheque for settlement of his contents claim, I dont think it was clear enough what this represented and I think its further answers 
just complicated matters more.
But I can also see that X didnt progress his own claim for several months during the spring 
and summer of 2020. X has said he was exceptionally busy as a keyworker during this time 
but I think its important that X understands that both parties must bear some responsibility 
for the delays during this time. 
Again, when dealing with RSAs loss adjuster during winter 2020/21, I can see X didnt 
respond to RSAs repeated requests for access so it could progress the claim and I think 
RSAs actions were fair and reasonable during this time.
Putting things right
Given the nature of the leak in Xs house I think its important that X and RSA co-operate to 
bring this claim to a close. 
Its clear from RSAs notes that it has accepted this is a valid claim, so I think RSA should 
proceed with a survey on Xs property, with his early agreement, in order to ascertain the 
extent of the damage and repairs required.
Once works are agreed, I think its fair that RSA assess whether alternative accommodation 
is required by X while cleaning and rectification works are completed, subject to the cover 
limits in his policy.
I think RSA should also deal with Xs buildings claim under the terms and conditions of his 
policy. I would expect in their response to this provisional decision the parties will state what 
steps are under way to bring the claim to a conclusion.
Responses to my provisional decision
RSA agreed with my provisional decision.
X also agreed with it, but pointed out some areas of my provisional decision where he didnt 
agree with the timeline of events I presented and the phrasing I used. 
In further writing since my provisional decision, X has also re-iterated his concerns about his 
working relationship with RSAs loss adjuster and raises questions about whether RSAs 
approach to a new survey, and subsequent works, will be fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank X for his close attention and response to some of the detail of what Id written 
in my provisional decision.
Im not going to respond to these points in this final decision because I dont think they 
substantially change my understanding of what has happened in the claim so far, and they 
havent altered the conclusions Ive made. But I also think I should re-state how important I 
think it is to bring this claim to a conclusion by both X and RSA working together towards a 
solution.
I can see X has mentioned RSAs ongoing approach to his claim in his later correspondence. This complaint is about the delays in the claim so far and as such Im not able to consider 
issues around how the claim might now be managed or how the personalities involved might 
affect the course of it. 
But I would like to assure X that he is able to approach RSA if hes unhappy with how it has 
handled the remainder of his claim, and then subsequently refer his complaint to this service 
should he remain unhappy with RSAs response. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Royal 
& Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Survey Xs property, with his early agreement, in order to ascertain the extent of the 
damage and repairs required.
Once works are agreed, assess whether alternative accommodation is required by X 
while cleaning and rectification works are completed, subject to the cover limits in his 
policy.
Deal with Xs buildings claim under the terms and conditions of his policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman