DRN-2834666
The complaint
Mr D complains that Soteria Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on his motor insurance
policy.
 
What happened
In June 2018, Mr D had his vehicle insured on a policy under which Soteria was responsible
for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Soteria, I include other companies and individuals
for whose actions I hold Soteria responsible.
On about 21 June 2018, Mr D and a third party were involved in a road traffic accident. In
July 2020, Mr D complained to Soteria about delay and poor communication.
By a final response dated mid- September 2020, Soteria acknowledged that there had been
times when it couldve done more to progress the claim, and it should have updated Mr D
more than it did. Soteria said it was sending Mr D a cheque for £100.00 compensation.
Unhappy with that, Mr D brought his complaint to us in October 2020.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that if
the business had been more proactive and kept Mr D up to date, Mr D wouldnt have
been put to the inconvenience of contacting the business as much as he did. She said that it
took until November 2020 for Soteria to close the claim as a no fault claim against Mr D.
The investigator recommended that Soteria should pay Mr D - in addition to the £100.00
already paid - £300.00 for the trouble, upset and inconvenience caused.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr D 
and to Soteria on 13 May 2021. I summarise my findings:
Soterias cheque for £100.00 wasnt a fair amount of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience  but the investigators recommendation of a further £300.00 (making 
a total of £400.00) was more than I found fair. I was minded to find that a total of 
£250.00 was fair and reasonable.
Subject to any further information from Mr D or from Soteria, my provisional decision was 
that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Soteria Insurance Limited to pay Mr D 
- in addition to the £100.00 already paid - £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr D disagrees with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
A lot of companies are using COVID-19 as an excuse. 
Had COVID-19 not come around, he still couldn't see any further resolution from 
Soteria sooner than now.
Soteria said that it received the provisional decision but has nothing further to add.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From his statement, I see that Mr D reported that hed been driving with his girlfriend as a
passenger when a third party hit his vehicle on a roundabout.
Mr D made a claim to Soteria. In July 2018, it said his vehicle was a total loss. His claim was
subject to a £650.00 excess. And his vehicle was still subject to outstanding finance. So
Soteria only paid a small balance to Mr D.
From a claim notification form, I see that in August 2018, his girlfriend notified an injury claim
against Mr D.
In late October 2018, Soteria wrote to the third party drivers insurer holding him liable for the
accident.
In April 2019, Soteria wrote to the third partys insurer threatening to issue court 
proceedings.
In early May 2019, the third partys insurer said Mr D was responsible for the accident. As far
as I can see, Soteria didnt respond until mid-July 2019. The third partys insurer proposed
split liability later in July 2019.
Soteria has said that it had three firms of solicitors dealing respectively with the injury claim,
recovery of the excess, and liability for the accident. That was its prerogative. But it hasnt
provided full details of who did what and when. From the incomplete details it has provided,
theres not enough evidence that Soteria pushed matters forward with the third partys
insurers as I wouldve expected.
Soterias file shows that in August 2019 it reviewed the file as follows:
TPI have offered 50-50.
They have never provided any evidence and investigations have said PH
will attend court and will make a good witness.
I therefore dont think we should accept 50-50 on this claim and have [set] ready for
legal task and sent response to TPI
If TPI do respond with evidence to support their VOE, we should then review
But  despite its note in August 2019 that the claim was ready for legal - Soteria didnt
actually instruct the solicitors to pursue liability against the third party until August 2020.
I accept that the pandemic caused some of the delay. But that was only from March
2020.
Overall, I find that Soteria didnt pursue the claim against the third party diligently  and so
often had no progress to report to Mr D.
The effect of this on Mr D was that the claim remained open for months longer than was
reasonable in the circumstances.Mr D hasnt given us details of the effect of this on the cost of his motor insurance  so I 
dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Soteria to pay compensation for any financial loss in 
that respect.
Ive seen a list of the times Mr D contacted his insurer. I accept that some calls were
inevitable. But I find that the shortcomings Ive identified caused Mr D more time and trouble
in chasing for updates. And I accept that Mr D was concerned about the lack of progress and
the prolonged uncertainty about the outcome of the claim.
 Putting things right
Weighing that up, I consider that Soterias cheque for £100.00 wasnt a fair amount of
compensation for such distress and inconvenience  but the investigators recommendation
of a further £300.00 (making a total of £400.00) was more than I find fair. I find that a total of 
£250.00 is fair and reasonable.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Soteria Insurance Limited to pay Mr D - in addition to the £100.00 already paid - 
£150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman