DRN-2630247
The complaint
Mr C says Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500) maliciously misled him with regards to his Germany 30 
CFD trade and caused him a loss (including lost profits). He seeks compensation for this. 
Plus500 disputes his claim for lost profits.
What happened
Mr Cs trade was closed on 1 June 2020 (the date) because of a margin call  equity in his 
trading account fell below the level of maintenance margin required to keep his trade open. 
This does not appear to be in dispute. Plus500 has also referred to the contractual 
responsibility Mr C had to monitor and maintain margin in his account, and this too does not 
appear to be in dispute.
The dispute between the parties relates to the cause and effect of information provided by 
Plus500 to Mr C about the status of the Germany 30 market on the date. 
Plus500 accepts it mistakenly mispresented information that said the market would be 
closed on the date. It says the date was a public Holiday in Germany and the Eurex 
Exchange was partially closed for this reason; this led to its communication that its Germany 
30 market would be closed on the date; however the public holiday did not affect the DAX 30 
index, which remained opened on the date; the DAX 30 index was the underlying for its 
Germany 30 market (and, therefore, for Mr Cs trade); once it learnt about this error it 
corrected its information on the market to confirm that it would be open (not closed) on the 
date; whilst it maintains that Mr C retained responsibility to monitor his account it accepts 
that he could have been misled by the initial misinformation and that he could have 
monitored his account (and had an opportunity to fund margin and avoid a margin call) on 
the date if he knew the market was open; for this reason it offered to refund the total loss 
crystalised in the trade from the margin call and to pay him £50 for the inconvenience the 
matter caused him; but it disputes responsibility for lost profit.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. She considered that Plus500 had made a reasonable offer that covered Mr Cs loss 
and inconvenience. She did not consider that his claim for lost profit could be substantiated, 
especially as there was no evidence to say, on balance, what would have happened to the 
trade but for the margin call. The investigator referred to the lack of any pattern in his trading 
and account funding history to suggest what would have happened.
Mr C strongly disagreed with this outcome. He stressed his belief that Plus500 had 
intentionally misled him about the market status and had intentionally closed his trade on the 
date in order to deprive him from profiting in the trade thereafter  in this respect, he referred 
to the market price for the trade rising continuously for the five days that followed and to the 
profits (over those days) he could have made but had been denied. He also noted that no 
such misinformation had ever happened, until the date, in the seven years over which he 
had held and traded in the Plus500 account, that it happened for the trade in question 
because Plus500 knew the market price would rise and it wanted to deprive him profit in the 
trade, that this service should not view these facts as coincidences and that further evidence 
of Plus500s intention to deprive him of profit can be found in its refusal to reinstate the trade 
when he asked for that. 
The investigator was not persuaded to change her view and the matter was referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator. I do not 
uphold Mr Cs complaint. To be clear, I have reached this decision on the basis that 
Plus500s offer to him is fair and reasonable and that its offer remains available to Mr C. If 
its position has changed or changes in this respect, then so do the circumstances related to 
the complaint. That potentially creates a new matter about liability. In the present complaint 
Plus500 accepts liability, so it is not a live matter. Only the matter of compensation is in 
dispute. That is what the investigator limited herself to and, because liability is not in dispute, 
compensation/redress is also what this decision has focused upon.
Plus500s offer already compensates Mr C for the loss he incurred from the margin call on 
his trade. I am also satisfied that its offer of £50 to him for the inconvenience caused is 
reasonable in the circumstances of the case. Plus500 did not prolong the matter for Mr C. In 
its response to his notification about the problem it immediately accepted responsibility and 
made its offer. I consider that this significantly limited the distress the matter would have 
caused him. The distress he might have been caused thereafter has arisen from his pursuit 
of compensation for lost profit, which is what remains in dispute. Given that I have not 
upheld this pursuit  because, as I explain below, I am not persuaded it is fair  I do not 
consider it reasonable to make an award for any inconvenience to him arising from it.
Compensation for lost profit cannot fairly be determined on a speculative basis. There is a 
need to establish what is more likely (than not) to have happened to the trade had it not 
been closed by the margin call. This can be an inherently difficult consideration in a case like 
Mr Cs. Trading outcomes can take a variety of different unpredictable forms. Ahead of this 
consideration is consideration of if Mr C would have funded margin to keep the position open 
or, instead, if he would have mitigated the loss arising on the date by closing the trade. I do 
not have to determine this because, as I said above, Plus500 accepts liability so it appears 
to be agreed that he would probably have funded margin. 
I have taken on board Mr Cs assertions about Plus500 conducting a conspiracy against 
him/his trade through the misinformation about the Germany 30 market status on the date. I 
appreciate that he feels very strongly about this, but I am not persuaded that his assertions 
have been established in the evidence available to us. Plus500s explanation of the 
misinformation appears to be plausible. It says it made a mistake and corrected it as soon as 
it became aware of it. I have not seen evidence to show, on balance, that this was not the 
case. More than the claims Mr C has made is needed to uphold the conspiracy that he has 
alleged. 
He says he previously had no comparable experience with Plus500, but that arguably lends 
support to Plus500s explanation about a mistake as it suggests there was no previous 
pattern of misinformation; as I said above, his trade was closed by a margin call so this 
defeats the idea that it was maliciously closed; I have not seen evidence that Plus500 could 
predict or had predicted the market price movement for the following five days, so this would 
appear to defeat the claim that it sought to deprive him of future profits; and I have not seen 
a basis on which it was obliged to reinstate the trade, having already offered to compensate 
for his loss (in some cases this can sometimes be explored but I do not consider that Plus500 had reason to do that in this case).
With regards to merit in Mr Cs claim about lost profit, I return to what I said above  
Compensation for lost profit cannot fairly be determined on a speculative basis. There is a 
need to establish what is more likely (than not) to have happened to the trade had it not 
been closed by the margin call. This can be an inherently difficult consideration in a case like 
his. Trading outcomes can take a variety of different unpredictable forms.
As the investigator said, there is insufficient evidence in Mr Cs trading history to indicate 
what would probably have happened to the trade but for the margin call closure. There is 
also no evidence of factors or circumstances surrounding the trade or the events in the 
complaint which provide such an indication.
With the benefit of hindsight, he says the market price rose for the five days following the 
trades closure and that his trade would have profited from that, but there must have been a 
period (on the date) in which the market price was against his trade  hence the loss within it 
when it that triggered the margin call and its closure. Without the benefit of hindsight, faced 
with such negative price movement at the time and without the margin call, I do not have 
enough evidence to say what Mr C would probably have done  would he have decided to 
close the trade any time during the date (depending on the state of profit/loss within it) or 
would he have done so shortly thereafter (depending on the same) or would he have kept it 
open for longer (depending on the same), and would he have revised any of these decisions 
at any time before they were executed? I do not have enough evidence to determine these 
questions, so the finding he has invited us to make would be mainly or wholly speculative, 
which will not be fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman