DRN-3964146
The complaint
Mr A complains about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) dealt with a claim under his home 
insurance policy for damage to his property caused by an escape of water. 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
In making his complaint, Mr A was supported by a representative (his loss adjuster). 
References to Mr A include his representative.
What happened
In April 2020 there was an escape of water at Mr As property. The escape occurred in a 
bathroom, damaging the walls, flooring, floorboards and bath panelling. There was also 
damage to the lounge beneath the bathroom, affecting the ceiling, walls and flooring.
Mr A contacted QIC to notify them of the incident and lodge a claim. He also appointed a 
loss adjuster (S) to deal with the claim on his behalf. QIC appointed a surveyor to attend the 
property and assess the damage. However, this didnt happen as Mr A said he didnt want a 
visit to the property until the risk from the Covid-19 Pandemic had reduced.
Mr A tried to contact QIC from May 2020 to September 2020, but QIC didnt respond. QIC 
did respond in September 2020, acknowledging their lack of contact and requesting their 
surveyor visit the property to assess the claim. However, this wasnt possible due to Mr A 
being abroad because of a family bereavement. But Mr A had already engaged a contractor 
to repair the damage to his property. As well as requesting a surveyor visit, QIC also 
requested Mr A provide any documentation relevant to the work carried out. 
A scope of work was provided by S to QIC in January 2021, but without supporting 
documents or photographs. Photographs were subsequently provided the following month, 
but QIC didnt consider them sufficient to validate the claim, nor what they considered 
appropriate supporting documentation. QIC confirmed they required a visit to the property by 
their surveyor. While theyd received a contractor invoice from Mr A for the work carried out 
(totalling £11,004) QIC said it was undated and didnt include sufficient detail to validate the 
claim or the costs included. 
As a result, QIC said they were unable to validate the claim. And Mr A having the work 
carried out without QICs knowledge or authorisation meant hed prejudiced QICs position. 
So, they wouldnt consider the claim.
Mr A challenged QICs decision and complained. But QIC didnt uphold the complaint, 
maintaining their decline of the claim. While they accepted there were delays after the 
incident was first notified to them, they didnt consider theyd jeopardised Mr As position. 
They said their surveyor made Mr A aware of the need for a visit to the property shortly after 
the claim was lodged (but he wouldnt agree due to concerns over risks from Covid-19).  
QIC said they also required further documentation (including a dated invoice, evidence of 
payment of the invoice and supporting images) to validate the claim. QIC also referred to 
policy terms and conditions that permanent repairs should not be carried out without first 
having QICs written permission. QIC concluded that because they hadnt been provided 
with the required evidence or permitted access to the property, they couldnt validate the 
claim until Mr A provided the further information and a visit to the property took place.
Mr A then complained to this service, unhappy at QIC not progressing his claim for four 
months after he first lodged it and not engaging with S. He was also unhappy QIC hadnt 
settled his claim and with their position hed hindered their assessment of the claim by 
completing work to repair the damage. He wanted QIC to settle his claim by paying the 
invoice cost (£11,004).
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He noted QIC appointed a surveyor when the 
claim was first lodged, but a visit to the property didnt happen and QIC didnt engage with 
Mr A to progress the claim. He thought Mr A was inconvenienced in seeking to progress the 
claim by QICs initial lack of engagement, and he hadnt acted unreasonably in having repair 
work carried out given this. So, he didnt think it fair for QIC to use the policy term about not 
carrying out permanent repairs without their authorisation to decline the claim. But while he 
concluded there had been an insured event (the escape of water) he also thought Mr A 
hadnt provided sufficient evidence and information for QIC to validate the claim. 
To put things right, the investigator thought QIC should reconsider its position on the claim, 
based on the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Mr A should engage with QIC to 
facilitate an inspection of the property (the repair work carried out) and provide further 
information (such as proof of payment for the repairs) through his representative. He also 
thought QIC should pay £200 in compensation for the poor service theyd provided to Mr A.
QIC disagreed with some of the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman 
review the complaint. While they agreed there were initially issues regarding the handling of 
the claim  which meant they thought the £200 compensation reasonable  they didnt agree 
with the investigators view about reconsidering the claim based on the remaining terms of 
the policy. They said Mr A hadnt supplied them with supporting evidence or documentation 
to enable them to validate the claim, despite being asked to do so several times. They 
referred to policy terms and conditions requiring policyholders to provide them (QIC) 
information and evidence to investigate a claim, as well as cooperating with them in 
investigating and assessing a claim. QIC considered Mr A had breached those conditions 
(as well as having work carried out before they were able to inspect the damage). They 
couldnt consider the costs of the work carried out if they werent able to validate them. As 
Mr A had refused to provide the information required, the claim had been fairly declined.
Mr A responded to say he thought hed provided sufficient evidence for QIC to validate the 
claim, including a detailed scope of works and costs (prepared by S); photographs of the 
damage and repairs (before, during and after the repair work); and an invoice. He thought an 
invoice was all that was needed (bank statements werent needed) and QIC could contact 
the contractor to confirm the invoice and payment. Mr A also didnt think QIC would provide 
a fair and reasonable service if they were to reconsider the claim (as the investigator 
recommended). He believed QIC should pay the invoice in full.
Our investigator considered both responses and issued a further view in which he thought 
the evidence from Mr A indicated hed incurred an insured loss. But given the concerns 
raised by QIC about the information they required from Mr A, he thought QIC should appoint 
a surveyor to assess the completed work and put a valuation on the work. That figure should 
be paid to Mr A (together with interest on the sum from the date he incurred the cost of the 
work to the date QIC paid the valuation of the work).
QIC disagreed with the investigators further view, confirming their request an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. They didnt think delays at the beginning of the claim jeopardised the claim outcome. Mr A was given several opportunities for a QIC surveyor to attend, which he 
didnt accept. While they accepted a loss had occurred, Mr A hadnt evidenced the loss or 
allowed QICs surveyor to validate the loss. Nor would an assessment of the damage after 
repairs were carried out be sufficient to validate the loss (and therefore the claim). An 
inspection of the damage before repairs would have given QIC the opportunity to assess the 
damage. Not being able to do this meant Mr A had prejudiced their position. They also said 
they attempted to arrange a surveyor visit in September, when Covid-19 restrictions had 
eased. QIC also questioned why, given Mr As concerns about Covid-19, he allowed 
contractors to enter his property and carry out repair work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Mr A.
The main element of Mr As complaint is that QIC have unfairly declined his claim, and that 
hes provided sufficient evidence to show he incurred an insured loss as well as evidence of 
a scope of works and work carried out by a contractor to repair the damage. He wants QIC 
to reimburse him for the cost of the repair work hes incurred. QIC make several points, 
including Mr A not obtaining their approval for the repair work to be carried out; not providing 
them with sufficient evidence and information to support the costs he says hes incurred; and 
that by not allowing them to inspect the property and validate the claim, hes prejudiced their 
position.
Having considered all the evidence and information available, including that provided by Mr 
A and by QIC, Ive concluded QIC havent acted fairly in declining to consider Mr As claim 
further. However, Ive also concluded it isnt reasonable for QIC to reimburse Mr A for the 
costs he says hes incurred in repairing the damage to his property. Ill come on to consider 
what I think is a reasonable resolution in this case, but first Ill set out the reasons Ive come 
to my conclusions.
First, Ive considered the general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage 
or loss under a policy, that the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that 
caused the damage or loss. In this case, from the evidence available I think there has been 
an insured event (and escape of water) that would constitute an insured event that caused 
damage. Ive also noted that QIC also accept there was an insured event.
Having come to this conclusion, Ive then considered the principle that where an insurer 
relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim, then the onus is on them to show the 
exclusion applies. QIC have effectively applied an exclusion by saying, firstly, Mr A has 
failed to comply with the policy conditions about obtaining their approval for repair work to be 
carried out. And, secondly, in their response to our investigators second view, those 
requiring policyholders to provide them with information and evidence to investigate a claim, 
as well as cooperating with them in investigating and assessing a claim. Looking at the 
available information and evidence, I dont think QIC have done enough to show theyve 
acted fairly and reasonably in applying both grounds in the specific circumstances of this 
case. Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
On the issue of obtaining prior authorisation, Ive considered the events following the 
incident and Mr A notifying QIC. QIC acknowledge they failed to engage with Mr A for a 
period of four months after he notified them of the incident, despite him (his representative) 
trying to get QIC to respond. I dont think this is acceptable, notwithstanding the issues around Covid-19 at the time. Given its accepted there was an insured event (loss) then I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Mr A to take steps to repair the damage to his property. 
QIC refer to policy terms and conditions that require their authorisation for permanent repairs 
to be carried out. Specifically, they refer to the Claims procedures and conditions Section 
of the policy, which states:
5 You may carry out any temporary repairs that are necessary to reduce any further 
loss or damage, but do not carry out any permanent repairs without first getting our 
written permission.
Their view is that Mr A breached these conditions by not notifying them of the repair work or 
obtaining their written permission. However, given my conclusion about it not being 
unreasonable for Mr A to repair his property  particularly given QICs lack of engagement  
then I dont think its fair or reasonable to use these terms and conditions to decline the claim 
in its entirety.
Ive then considered the issue of QICs validation of the claim, including assessing the 
damage from the incident, the work needed to repair the damage, as well as the issue of the 
evidence and documentation to support the cost of the work Mr A says hes incurred (from 
the invoice hes provided from his contractor).
Normally, where an insured event (loss) occurs, an insurer would assess the damage 
incurred and the repair work needed to rectify the damage and reinstate the property to the 
condition it was in before the incident. This would typically include a scope of works drawn 
up by a surveyor acting for the insurer, which would usually be costed at rates the insurer is 
able to obtain from its contractors. That scope of works would either then form the basis of 
repair work carried out by the approved contractor or, as an alternative, form the basis of a 
cash settlement offer to the policyholder. Where a policyholder elects to use their own 
contractor, including obtaining an estimate for the repair work, then it would be for the 
insurer  their surveyor  to review the scope of work and the estimate of costs  to 
determine whether its reasonable and a bases for settling of the claim.
In this case, Mr A has had the repair work carried out by a contractor, based on a (costed) 
scope of works drawn up by his loss adjuster. The invoice for the work provided by Mr As 
contractor matched this scope. However, I dont think its reasonable for Mr A to say QIC 
should reimburse him for the cost on the invoice (as hes requested). Ive concluded this for 
several reasons. First, its fair and reasonable for QIC to want to validate the repair work 
carried out, both in terms of the work carried out (that it was necessary to repair the damage 
caused by the incident  but not any other work that may not have been caused by the 
incident, or pre-existing damage or issues). But also the evidence and information to support 
the costs incurred (as recorded on the invoice). 
For the first aspect, I think its reasonable for QIC to want to assess the damage and the 
necessary repair work, as part of assessing the claim. While I accept this would ordinarily be 
done at the point the incident occurred (so the surveyor can assess the damage at the point 
of the incident) I dont think  as QIC argue  that its not possible to do this after the repair 
work being carried out. I think theres sufficient evidence from the photographs and other 
information, combined with a visit to Mr As property, for QIC to assess the scope of work 
provided by Mr A (or produce their own). I think its reasonable this could then form the basis 
of QIC assessing the claim and offering a settlement. For example, a cash settlement based 
on a costed scope of works produced by their surveyor. This would accord with one of the 
options typically available to settle a claim.On the issue of the documentary evidence to support the repair cost incurred by Mr A, 
looking at what Ive seen, I think its reasonable for QIC to want to validate the costs incurred 
and to ask for further evidence. For example, the invoice is undated and does not make any 
mention of VAT. In addition there are line items that arent broken down further (for example, 
management fees). I also think its reasonable for QIC to want evidence to support payment 
of the invoice. However, I dont agree that this means QIC can fairly or reasonably use the 
policy terms and conditions they refer to about requiring policyholders to provide them 
information and evidence to investigate a claim, as well as cooperating with them in 
investigating and assessing a claim, to decline the claim in full. 
Taking all these conclusions together, Ive concluded that while QIC have reasonable 
grounds to question the repair work carried out by Mr As contractor and their ability to 
validate the claim, I dont think theyve acted reasonably in declining the claim in its entirety  
particularly as its accepted there was an insured event.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive thought about what I think would be a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the complaint and what QIC need to do to put things right. As Ive 
concluded QIC cant rely on the policy terms and conditions set out above to decline the 
claim in its entirety, I think they should assess the claim (including the costs Mr A says hes 
incurred from his contractor) in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
I think QIC should assess the claim based on the evidence provided by Mr A, as well as (as 
appropriate) including their surveyor visiting the property to assess the repair work carried 
out; the scope of work provided by Mr A and any further information and evidence to support 
the repair work carried out and the costs incurred.  
Should the assessment of the claim lead to a settlement of the claim, QIC should also pay 
interest, at the rate of 8% simple on the amount of any settlement from the date Mr A can 
show he paid the cost of repairs to his contractor to the date QIC settle the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr As complaint in part. I 
require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Assess the claim (including the costs Mr A says hes incurred from his contractor) in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Assess the claim based on the evidence provided by Mr A, as well as (as 
appropriate) including their surveyor visiting the property to assess the repair work 
carried out; the scope of work provided by Mr A and any further information and 
evidence to support the repair work carried out and the costs incurred.  
Pay Mr A £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Should the assessment of the claim lead to a settlement of the claim, QIC should also pay 
interest, at the rate of 8% simple on the amount of any settlement from the date Mr A can 
show he paid the cost of repairs to his contractor to the date QIC settle the claim.
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr 
A accept my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If QIC Europe Ltd consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr A how much theyve taken off. They should 
also give Mr A a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman