DRN-4519911
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money they lost as a result of 
a scam.
Mr and Mrs N are represented by a firm that Ill refer to as R.
What happened
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 5 October 2023. I said:
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer 
to some key events here.
In 2022 Mr and Mrs N were the victims of a crypto scam. Mr N came across an 
investment advertisement on a social media website that was, supposedly, endorsed 
by Elon Musk. Intrigued by the investment opportunity, Mr N provided his details by 
completing a form and was later contacted by a firm Ill refer to as E (the 
scammers).
Mr N has said he spoke with E, learning more about their trading history and allowing 
them to understand his investment ambitions. He was also shown a video of another 
client whod started investing small amounts and received good returns. Because of 
this, Mr N likewise chose to invest a small amount to begin with  seeing profits and 
shown how to make withdrawals from Es trading platform. Feeling reassured by this, 
Mr N decided to invest further. He made four international payments  in Euros - from 
Mr and Mrs Ns joint HSBC bank account to legitimate crypto exchanges, to buy 
crypto, before sending it to Es trading platform. The relevant payments are:
Date Type Amount
24 June 2022 International payment £30,027.43
12 July 2022 International payment £15,470.85
14 July 2022 International payment £41,033.97
25 July 2022 International payment £41,055.35
Total: £127,587.60
Mr N realised hed been scammed when, at a family event, he spoke with his son 
who realised the investment didnt sound right. 
R complained to HSBC, on behalf of Mr and Mrs N, in September 2022. In short, they 
said:
Although HSBC did speak to Mr N about one of the later payments, they 
ought to have questioned him about the first payment for £30,027.43. This is 
because the payment(s) was out of character based on Mr and Mrs Ns 
typical account usage. 
When HSBC did speak with Mr N, they only asked very basic information  
such as whether he had checked if E was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), or if hed seen the terms and conditions of the investment 
contract. Whereas the bank ought to have delved into how Mr N discovered 
the investment opportunity, which wouldve unearthed the scam as HSBC, 
being fraud experts, are aware false media posts endorsed by celebrities are 
a known starting point for scams. HSBC wouldve also identified other 
warning signs, had they questioned Mr N appropriately, including that an 
unregulated broker was asking him to send money to crypto exchanges.  
Mr N was fully co-operative with HSBC, answering their questions truthfully 
and honestly. 
The payments were sent to crypto exchanges with the help of the scammers, 
using a remote desktop application.
Mr N had little knowledge of crypto or how it worked, and so followed the 
instructions given to him. 
Crypto scams have been incredibly prevalent, and HSBC shouldve known 
how they worked as well as how common they are since 2018  particularly 
from the point Action Fraud provided a warning about crypto scams. HSBC, 
therefore, shouldve had controls in place to protect customers by the time of 
the scam. 
Had HSBC intervened on the first payment, asking appropriating questions 
and given relevant warnings to Mr N, then the fraud couldve been prevented. 
So, they wanted HSBC to refund Mr and Mrs N for their losses and pay 8% 
interest. 
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. They said the payments werent covered under 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code and so they wouldnt provide a 
refund. And they explained they offered fraud warnings when Mr N set up the initial 
payments and spoke with him, prompting him to stop the payment until hed done 
further research. Mr N then called back to have the payment made  and he 
explained he thought E were a genuine company as hed searched them online, 
looked at reviews and seen their terms and conditions. HSBC added that theyd 
notified the beneficiary banks of the allegation, asking them to return the funds.
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman but our Investigator didnt 
think HSBC had to do anything further. He thought HSBC shouldve contacted Mr N 
sooner but even if they did, he wasnt persuaded it wouldve made a difference. This 
is because, having listened to the calls that did take place, he was satisfied HSBC 
sufficiently warned Mr N about crypto scams and their prevalence. And that they 
recommended he carry out further checks, such as checking the FCA register and 
their cloned firms page. Mr N however said hed done his due diligence on E and he 
was satisfied they were legitimate.
R disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, theyve 
said:
HSBC didnt check the FCA register and, had they done so, they wouldve 
known E wasnt a legitimate firm.
HSBC asked Mr N whether he was sure E were legitimate but, as a novice 
investigator, this wasnt sufficient. And Mr N recalls that HSBC didnt go 
through common red flags or ask in depth questions about E.Having listened to the calls, they dont think Mr N was properly warned or that 
HSBCs intervention was sufficient. This is because there werent probing 
questions asked about the investment and its clear Mr N wasnt 
knowledgeable. So, asking him if he felt the investment was legitimate isnt a 
question that would uncover fraud  as no normal person would willingly 
transfer money when they know its a scam.
Even though the customer raised red flags in the calls, HSBC skimmed over 
these with pre-decided questions. For example, despite Mr N saying hes 
moving money for an investment, HSBC focused on unrelated safe account 
questions instead of asking basic investment scam questions  such as:
oWhy have you chosen this company? To which Mr N wouldve 
explained it was partly because Elon Musk was endorsing it. This 
wouldve been a considerable red flag and HSBC shouldve stopped 
the payment explaining it is fraud.
oHas anyone asked you to download a remote desktop application? To 
which Mr N wouldve confirmed yes, this had happened.
HSBC also didnt ask for the firms name and, even though Mr N explains he 
is sending money to his trading account, they dont ask any follow up 
questions about this. Instead, they skip to whether Mr N has received advice 
from friends but they dont ask basic questions about how he found the 
investment itself. If they had, Mr N wouldve told HSBC that hed found them 
via a social media website which, again, wouldve been a clear red flag.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the CRM code which can offer a potential means of obtaining a 
refund following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this one. But the CRM 
code only applies to payments made to an account held by another person, in 
sterling, between two UK based accounts. As the payments Mr N made were sent 
internationally, to an account he held in his own name, theyre not covered under the 
CRM code. Ive therefore considered whether HSBC should reimburse Mr and Mrs N 
under any of their other obligations.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments their customer authorises them to make. Here, it isnt disputed that Mr N 
knowingly made the payments from his joint bank account held with Mrs N. I 
appreciate Mr N was tricked by the scammer as he thought it was a genuine 
investment opportunity. Nevertheless, Im satisfied the payments were authorised by 
Mr N. So, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of the 
account, HSBC are expected to process the payments and Mr and Mrs N are 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
I have however taken into account regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice. This includes, but isnt limited to:
The British Standards Institute code of practice PAS 17271.
FCA Principles for Businesses 2 and 6, and SYSC 3.2.6R.
The FSAs (the predecessor to the FCA) thematic review paper of 2012, 
Banks defences against investment fraud  Detecting perpetrators and protecting victims.
Im therefore satisfied that HSBC ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter 
various risks including preventing fraud and scams. To do this, HSBC shouldve had 
systems in place to identify unusual transactions, or other signs, that its customers 
were at risk of fraud. And carried out additional checks before processing a payment 
or, declined the payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud.
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr N to HSBC were 
unusual enough - in relation to Mr and Mrs Ns typical account activity  to have 
expected HSBC to have identified he was at risk of financial harm from fraud.
Having reviewed Mr and Mrs Ns account statements, it was typically used for 
relatively low value day to day spending along with the occasional higher value 
transaction (of several thousand pounds). The first payment to a crypto exchange of 
£30,027.43 was, therefore, for significantly more than Mr and Mrs N typically spent 
on their account. Considering this, and that the payment was being sent to a new 
international payee, I think it ought to have been identified by HSBC as unusual. So, I 
think HSBC ought to have held the payment and contacted Mr N about it.
Ive therefore thought about, had this happened, whether Mr and Mrs Ns loss 
couldve been prevented. And, after giving this careful thought, I think that shouldve 
happened here. Ill explain why.
When considering this, Ive taken into account the telephone conversations between 
Mr N and HSBC on 13 and 14 July 2022 relating to the £41,033.97 transaction. This 
is because, I see no reason to think  had HSBC intervened earlier  that they 
wouldve handled it any differently. Having carefully listened to the calls, I dont think 
HSBC did enough to identify whether Mr N was at risk of financial harm from fraud, or 
that they gave sufficient warnings or advice to Mr N to allow him to protect himself 
from the scam. This is because:
Mr N explained the payment was for investing via a broker, E, but HSBC 
failed to question Mr N how he came across E and the investment 
opportunity. I think HSBC ought to have probed Mr N about the investment 
more than they did, particularly given the payments were made to a crypto 
exchange as they ought to have been aware of the prevalence of crypto 
scams at that time. Had this happened, I think 
Mr N wouldve explained hed come across the investment opportunity on a 
social media website that was, supposedly, endorsed by Elon Musk. This 
wouldve been a significant red flag to HSBC as these are common features 
of crypto scams.
Mr N explained to HSBC that E opened his crypto account, and the money 
had to be sent via the crypto exchanges as it couldnt be sent directly to his 
trading account. He also said he had no idea as to whether he could access 
his crypto wallet, as he didnt know what that meant, but he could see the 
trading account balance on a dashboard. Again, these are extremely 
common features of crypto scams that ought to have been identified by HSBC 
and put them on notice that Mr N was likely making the payment as part of a 
scam.
Tailored and probing questioning, in light of Mr N telling HSBC that E opened 
his crypto account, wouldve also uncovered that hed downloaded a remote desktop application so that E could assist him with crypto investing. This is 
another common feature of an investment scam as a legitimate investment 
firm wouldnt use a remote desktop application.
Although HSBC did tell Mr N that crypto scams are rampant, they said it was 
difficult to identify between legitimate and fraudulent cases. As per above, I 
think HSBC couldve easily identified this was a scam had they questioned Mr 
N appropriately about E and the investment opportunity.
Mr N suggested, as way of verifying the legitimacy of E, that he compose an 
email to the two individuals he was dealing with so to clear things up. This 
was because he was keen not miss out on the investment opportunity but, he 
was concerned he hadnt done the sort of things HSBC were referring to 
which he had no knowledge of. So, he said he could provide a list of 
questions to E such as, does he have access to the crypto wallet? HSBC 
shouldve, however, explained to Mr N that trying to verify whether E was 
legitimate by contacting them wouldnt be an appropriate method of doing so 
 as a scammer would simply reassure their victim of their legitimacy. 
The advice/warnings given by HSBC were generic and aimed at general 
investment scams, rather than tailored to crypto. For example, given crypto 
investments are unregulated, directing Mr N to check whether E was 
regulated, with say the FCA, or listed as a cloned company on their website 
was unlikely going to uncover the firm wasnt legitimate. And there also wasnt 
a warning about E published by the FCA until March 2023. 
Although it wasnt unreasonable for HSBC to recommend Mr N obtain the 
terms and conditions from E, I dont think this wouldve given Mr N sufficient 
knowledge  without the advice of a qualified financial adviser  for him to 
establish if it was a genuine investment opportunity. 
The questions asked by HSBC werent, at times, particularly relevant. For 
example, in the second call, even though they knew Mr N was sending the 
payment for investment purposes, they questioned whether hed received any 
calls, texts or emails asking him to move money to a safe account.
Taking all of this into consideration, Im not persuaded HSBC did enough to protect 
Mr N from the scam. I appreciate Mr N believed E were a legitimate firm as hed 
search them online, read reviews and seen their terms and conditions. But I dont 
think HSBC shouldve allowed the payment to be processed because of this. Instead, 
HSBC ought to have satisfied themselves Mr N wasnt at risk of financial harm from 
fraud before processing the payment. And here, I think HSBC failed to identify and 
act on clear red flags which Mr N brought to their attention  as well those they didnt 
uncover due to a lack of appropriate probing about the payment.
Mr N was a novice investor who made it clear to HSBC that he didnt understand 
aspects of the investment, nor was he knowledgeable about the checks he could 
carry out to ensure it was legitimate. And so, as the financial experts, HSBC were 
best placed to warn him about the significant risks of making the payment to the 
crypto investment. Ive no reason to think Mr N wouldve ignored such as advice, 
particularly as in the first call, he explains that hes done his due diligence to the point 
he knows how, but that he would also take any advice HSBC had to give.
It follows that, had HSBC intervened effectively by asking Mr N probing questions 
about E and the investment, they wouldve become aware he was very likely falling 
victim to a scam. And, accordingly, they shouldve warned Mr N as such. Considering 
Mr Ns willingness to take advice from HSBC, I see no reason to think he wouldnt have been receptive to such a warning. I therefore consider HSBC failed to protect 
Mr N, and his wife, from the loss they suffered.
Ive also given thought about whether Mr and Mrs N should bear some responsibility 
by way of contributory negligence. Having done so, I dont think that would be fair 
here. This is because I consider they were victims of a sophisticated scam and I dont 
think Mr N acted in a way that could reasonably be considered to be negligent, 
thereby warranting a reduction in the award.
To put things right, I think HSBC should refund Mr and Mrs N £127,587.60 and apply 
8% simple interest per year (calculated from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement).
Ive also considered the impact of whats happened on Mr and Mrs N. And while I 
accept E, as the scammers, are primarily responsible for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs N have suffered, I think HSBC couldve reasonably 
prevented their loss. And so, to recognise the impact of this on Mr and Mrs N, I think 
it would be reasonable for HSBC to pay them £300.
Mr and Mrs N accepted the provisional decision but HSBC did not. 
HSBC seemed to accept they couldve done more to protect Mr and Mrs N from the scam 
but they didnt think a full refund was fair  or consistent with other decisions reached by the 
Financial Ombudsman. In short, and in relation to why they felt Mr and Mrs N should bear 
some responsibility for their loss, they said:
Mr N told them on the 14 July 2022 call that hed carried out online research. But, 
from their own online search, they found a review website which gave warnings that 
E could be a scam prior to the payments being made.
They didnt think a reasonable person would invest over £120,000 following sight of 
an investment advertisement on a social media website. And, while Mr N has been 
unclear on the returns offered, they assume his conduct was influenced by too good 
be true returns. 
There was information across the comments they made to him, as well as the digital 
warnings they provided when he made the payments, that ought to have caused 
Mr N to question the arrangement. They also advised Mr N to consult a financial 
advisor, which he failed to do.
Its unclear why Mr N didnt consult a family member about the investment at an 
earlier stage. 
HSBC also questioned the interest rate I intended to award for loss of use of money as they 
didnt think 8% was fair or reasonable  as a significant proportion of the payments were 
funded from savings accounts, and so the interest rates for these accounts should be 
applied. 
As part of considering HSBCs response to my provisional decision, I sought additional 
information from Mr and Mrs N via R. And they confirmed Mr N couldnt recall what 
information he found online, and therefore relied upon, as part of his due diligence of E. But 
that he did receive terms and conditions and reviewed the firms website. And in response to 
my request for evidence of the interest rates applicable to the source of funds, Mr N said 
there wasnt any interest rate to be added.  I then wrote to both parties and explained, after further consideration, that I intended to 
reach a different outcome on Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. I explained:
I remained of the view that HSBC failed to protect Mr and Mrs N from the scam for 
the same reasons I set out in my provisional decision. But I thought there should be a 
50% reduction in the award due to contributary negligence. 
I acknowledged HSBCs reference to the review website that indicated E could be a 
scam. But I didnt think one review website, with only a small number of negative 
reviews, would necessarily be enough to say Mr and Mrs N didnt undertake 
reasonable due diligence before investing  particularly given it didnt appear as a top 
result in my own historical internet search. 
But Id thought what I wouldve considered reasonable due diligence here  including 
the amount invested, Mr Ns lack of crypto experience/knowledge and the source of 
funds (which came from a business account and loans). And as Mr N was intrigued 
by the investment opportunity due it being endorsed by Elon Musk, I thought it 
wouldve been reasonable for Mr N to have undertaken some checks about this 
online before proceeding. Had he done so, and from my own historical internet 
search, he would likely have come across various websites referring to crypto scams 
and indicating deepfake videos of Elon Musk being used by illegitimate firms to 
promote crypto. 
This shouldve put Mr N on notice that there was a risk the investment could be a 
scam. Thereby prompting him to seek further advice before proceeding  as he 
eventually did when speaking with his son at a family event. If hed done so, then I 
thought it was reasonable to assume Mr N wouldve similarly become aware it was a 
scam and not proceeded to make the payments.
Because of this, I thought HSBC should refund £63,793.80 and pay £300 compensation (as I 
remained of the view that compensation was appropriate given HSBC couldve prevented 
the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs N experienced).
HSBC agreed but Mr and Mrs N did not. And R, on their behalf, said:
It would be unfair to place any weight on the review website as it wasnt even on 
page one of the results of their historical internet search for E.
They didnt think my reasoning that Mr and Mrs N ought to have researched the 
celebrity endorsement  which in turn wouldve led them to uncovering it was 
commonly associated with this type of scam - was fair. Or that it was consistent with 
other decisions the Financial Ombudsman had reached on similar complaints. And 
they highlighted other cases whereby they considered reductions for contributary 
negligence hadnt been applied purely on the basis it was endorsed by a celebrity. 
Instead, the Financial Ombudsman put weight on the failure of the bank  as a 
celebrity endorsement is an obvious red flag to a fraud expert whereby it wouldnt be 
for an ordinary person like their client. 
I replied to R and, in short, said:
I accept the review website may have been missed by Mr and Mrs N as it doesnt 
appear to have been a highly prominent internet search result at the time. So, I didnt 
think this alone would be enough to say Mr and Mrs N are partly responsible for their 
loss.But Id given further thought to whether a reduction in the award due to contributary 
negligence would be fair in line of Rs points around celebrity endorsements. And I 
noted Rs reference to other complaints which had been decided by the Financial 
Ombudsman that they considered support their position. But I explained I would be 
considering the specific circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ns complaint and therefore 
only commenting on that, and not the other complaints. 
Given Mr and Mrs N invested a significant amount of money with E, over £125,000, I 
think its reasonable to have expected them to have carried out due diligence before 
proceeding  particularly as they were inexperienced with crypto. And, beyond 
receiving terms and conditions and reviewing Es website, Mr N cant recall what 
other information he relied upon. 
At the very least, I wouldve expected Mr N to have carried out an internet search. 
And although there may have been very little negative information about E, from my 
own historical internet search (as well as the search shared by R), there was likewise 
little  if any  information indicating E was a genuine firm either. In the absence of 
this, I think Mr and Mrs N ought to have been concerned about Es legitimacy. 
I therefore consider, given Mr N was intrigued by the investment opportunity due it 
being endorsed by Elon Musk, it wouldve been reasonable for him to have 
researched this further online too  which, as Ive said, wouldve led to Mr N finding 
various websites referring to crypto scams and indicating deepfake videos of Elon 
Musk being used by illegitimate firms to promote crypto. 
I also thought, given the amounts involved, that it wouldve been reasonable for 
Mr and Mrs N to have sought further advice before investing with E  whether 
prompted by the internet search or not. And they eventually did this when Mr N spoke 
with his son  who, quite easily, realised something wasnt right and led to the scam 
being uncovered.
Because of this, and in these specific circumstances, I thought it was fair to hold 
Mr and Mrs N responsible for their loss too by applying a 50% reduction due to 
contributary negligence. 
I therefore remained of the view that HSBC refunding £63,793.80, and paying £300 
compensation, resulted in a fair outcome here. 
R confirmed Mr and Mrs N remained of the same view as theyd outline earlier  in that a 
reduction for contributary negligence isnt fair, nor is it consistent with other decisions made 
by the Financial Ombudsman. And so, a final decision was requested. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate R, and Mr and Mrs N, disagree that a reduction in the award due to contributory 
negligence is fair. But in the absence of any further points for my consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the above  as I think HSBC failed to protect Mr and Mrs N from the 
scam, but I also consider Mr and Mrs N were partly responsible for what happened too. And 
so, I therefore remain of the view that both parties should share equal responsibility for the 
loss Mr and Mrs N suffered from this scam. 
It follows, to put things right, HSBC should refund Mr and Mrs N £63,793.80. HSBC should 
also pay £300 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs N experienced 
because of the scam too. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
Refund Mr and Mrs N £63,793.80; and
Pay them £300 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman