DRN-3428880
The complaint
Mr Js complained that TSB Bank plc failed to refund a credit balance on his credit card 
statement for several years  despite him repeatedly contacting them, asking them to do 
this.
What happened
In early May 2021, Mr J complained to TSB that hed been trying to get them to return a 
credit balance from his inactive credit card for several years.  He said hed made concerted 
efforts but hadnt been successful.  Mr J asked for a refund of the credit balance, 8% 
interest, £35 for calls to TSB and compensation for distress and inconvenience.
TSB investigated Mr Js complaint but didnt uphold it.  In their written response, TSB said 
they could see Mr J had contacted them in early May 2021, asking for a refund of the credit 
balance  which TSB had found was created by Mr J sending them an overpayment in 
November 2017.  They arranged for the credit balance to be transferred to Mr Js current 
account.  
But TSB said they couldnt find any record of Mr J contacting them about the balance before 
May 2021.  They invited Mr J to provide them with evidence to show he had done.  But, 
without this, TSB said they hadnt done anything wrong.  
Mr J wasnt satisfied with TSBs response and brought his complaint to us.  Our investigator 
considered it and concluded TSB didnt need to do anything else to resolve it.  He said the 
evidence showed TSB processed the refund promptly when it was requested, and hed seen 
nothing to suggest they ignored earlier requests from Mr J.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.  Ill explain why.
I can see the credit balance on Mr Js credit card account was only a small sum.  And I 
understand its frustrating that not being able to access a sum of money  however small.  
But, as our investigator explained, I can only say TSB should do more to resolve Mr Js 
complaint if Im satisfied by the evidence Ive seen that they didnt deal with him fairly.  Thats 
not the case here.
While I appreciate Mr J has said he spent several years requesting the return of the credit 
balance, TSB have said they have no record of him contacting them before May 2021.  Im 
satisfied from what Ive seen thats what their records show.  
And Ive seen that both TSB and our investigator invited Mr J to provide any evidence he has 
that he contacted them before this.  Mr J hasnt provided anything.  So the only evidence on 
which I can base my decision is the evidence TSB sent.
That shows TSB received Mr Js complaint on 4 May.  They wrote to him on 7 May 
addressing his concerns and confirming the balance was being transferred to his current 
account.  And Ive seen evidence this was credited on 10 May  less than a week after Mr J 
complained.  
I think thats reasonable, given TSB had to check their records for the credit balance and 
transfer it.  And in the absence of any evidence they could have dealt with Mr Js request 
earlier, I dont think they need to do any more to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman