DRN-3550414
The complaint
Mr O complains that ReAssure Limited have provided him poor service in its management of 
his pension funds. ReAssure Limited did not apply two £500 payments to his fund, provided 
poor customer service and he was unable to complete the fund switch he wanted to make, 
resulting in a financial loss as the stock market rose when his funds were not invested.
What happened
Mr O has a personal pension plan (PPP) with L&G, which was transferred to ReAssure when 
it took over the administration of this part of the business.
On 15 October 2020 Mr O made two electronic bank transfers of £500 (total £1000) 
intending these to be paid into his pension fund. He sent these to L&Gs bank account. On 
the same day he called ReAssure to set up online access to his account and asked about 
the payment hed made. ReAssure told him it didnt know if the payment would be 
transferred over to its account automatically, but it would find out for him. He also asked how 
he could go about making payments into his ReAssure account, obtained a fund value and 
discussed which funds his pension was invested in.
At this time Mr Os pension was invested in cash and property funds. One of the cash funds 
had an annual management charge (AMC) of 4.5% whilst the others had an AMC of 0.5%. 
Mr O said he wanted to transfer the fund with the higher AMC into the main fund with the 
AMC of 0.5%, but the call cut off before this was actioned. 
Mr O followed this up with a further call to ReAssure on 22 October 2020, again asking when 
his £1,000 would show on his policy.
On 2 November 2020 ReAssure wrote to Mr O at his old work address. In the letter it 
explained it was not possible to complete the fund switch hed requested due to the type of 
fund. It explained this switch would be automatically actioned at his nominated retirement 
date.
On 3 November 2020 ReAssure wrote to Mr O again at his old work address explaining it 
had been unable to locate the two missing £500 payments, and as theyd been made into 
the L&G account they may not have been transferred over. ReAssure said Mr O would need 
to talk to L&G about this.
On 25 November 2020 Mr O called ReAssure as hed been having trouble accessing his 
online account. He said hed called several times to try and activate it but the code wouldnt 
work. He also said hed still not had the £1,000 added to his fund. ReAssure told him that 
matter was still being looked into, and it would be marked as a priority. ReAssure explained 
a letter was sent to him about this on 3 November 2020, but Mr O said this was an old work 
address and that hed asked specifically for post not to be sent to that address, and to only 
use his home address. ReAssure apologised and said it would ensure its records were 
amended. Mr O went on to ask about the fund switch hed requested (to go to the 0.5% AMC 
fund) as this hadnt happened. He said he had wanted to put it all into the managed fund 
about a month ago as he thought the stock market was going to go up, and asked if 
ReAssure could do this for him. As he had to go into a meeting, he asked for ReAssure to 
call him back so it could be arranged. Mr O said he had wanted to switch his funds into the 
managed fund but wasnt able to, and the stock market had risen by about 10% since so 
hed lost about £5,000 as a result of not being able to switch.
On 27 November 2020 ReAssure sent Mr O the full breakdown and values of the funds 
within his pension, and a list of the funds that he could transfer into.
On 17 December 2020 Mr O again called ReAssure to complain. He said the £1,000 hed 
paid into his account still wasnt showing and he kept getting told that neither L&G nor 
ReAssure were dealing with it. And as well as not getting the call-backs hed been promised, 
he couldnt understand why his fund value was decreasing as it was a cash fund.
On 22 December 2020 ReAssure called Mr O and told him the £1,000 payment had been 
located and could be applied to his fund. It took some further information from him and 
agreed that it would be applied on the date it was received (15 October 2020) and paid into 
the cash fund (0.5% AMC). ReAssure also reconfirmed Mr O wasnt allowed to transfer the 
amount held in the 4.5% AMC due to the type of fund, but the AMC would be capped at 1% 
when he turned 55 years old.
On 30 December 2020 Mr O called ReAssure. He asked for advice about how to log into the 
online portal, and was sent a web-link which enabled him to do so. He asked about the 
£1,000 payment as it was still not showing on his account, and was told it was being 
processed. He asked again about changing the fund with the 4.5% AMC into the main cash 
fund, and asked for the property funds to be transferred into the cash funds. This was 
actioned so that all his funds were held in the cash account. ReAssure wrote to Mr O on 
6 January 2021 with confirmation of the details of the switch.
On 25 February 2021 ReAssure wrote to Mr O confirming the £1,000 net payment had been 
applied to his pension fund, and backdated to the date it was received, 15 October 2020. It 
apologised for the delay in responding.
On 29 February 2021 ReAssure wrote to Mr O with its response to his complaints. In 
summary:
It apologised for the difficulties hed experienced when trying to access his online 
account, and had sent him his access instructions. It was pleased his account was 
now active. 
It apologised that Mr O had not received a call back about the fund switch when hed 
asked for one, but he was called on 22 December and the fund switch was put in 
place, with confirmation sent in writing. 
It apologised for the delay in applying the £1,000 cheque to his plan and explained 
this had been caused by an error in its internal systems. It confirmed the payment 
would be backdated and applied to the correct fund, so Mr O would have no financial 
detriment.
ReAssure sent Mr O a payment of £150 to reflect the inconvenience hed been caused.
But Mr O wasnt happy with this. He told ReAssure:
The points it had covered were only reflective of a small part of all his complaints 
logged in early November 2020.
It had failed to adhere to the FCA guidelines about complaint acknowledgement.Its letter had said it would send both £150 and £250 compensation, along with 
several other typing errors. 
Nobody had explained why the value of his cash fund was decreasing.
Being unable to locate a large sum of money for over four months was another 
breach of FCA guidelines.
Why did it keep referring to a cheque payment, when it was made by BACS.
By not getting a call-back about the fund switch he wished to make, he had lost the 
opportunity to move into the stock market fund he intended to use. And the rise in the 
market since that time meant hed been disadvantaged by about £5,500.
ReAssure responded on 18 March 2021. 
It apologised for the typing errors in its previous response, and confirmed that £150 
compensation was the correct amount. 
It said it had complied with the FCA guidelines in respect of complaint handling as it 
had sent 4 and 8 week hold letters as required.
It explained the cash fund is still unit linked with a bid price, which can still change, 
but it is a low risk fund influenced by market interest rates.
It said fund switch requests could be made by email or in writing, and a switch would 
be actioned within 24 hours of receiving the instruction. Fund switches could also be 
made via his active portal account.
Unhappy with this final response Mr O complained to our Service. He said:
ReAssure had lost his £1,000 for many weeks and said L&G had it, which was 
untrue.
He had called ReAssure several times to get his fund value, and it had been unable 
to tell him as it required a manual calculation.
ReAssure staff lacked the required understanding of policies and procedures.
It had taken ReAssure from October 2020 to March 2021 to answer his complaints, 
which was outside the required timeframe.
There were inaccuracies in ReAssures complaint response letter.
ReAssure hadnt addressed his complaint that he had been unable to switch his 
funds into a managed/stock market fund, so hed missed out on taking advantage of 
an approximate 20% rise in the market.
Since March 2021 ReAssure had been unable to provide him with a fund valuation, 
and he didnt understand how his cash fund could drop by 3% in the first six months 
of the year when the AMC was only 0.5%.
After the complaint was brought to our Service ReAssure increased its offer of compensation 
to £300. But Mr O didnt think this was fair.
Our Investigator considered the complaint, and took into account all the information provided 
by ReAssure and the additional information sent in by Mr O. And having done so she didnt 
uphold Mr Os complaint. She said shed not seen any evidence that Mr O had asked for a 
fund switch, nor that hed been prevented from completing a fund switch due to ReAssure 
being unable to provide him with a fund value. And she thought the £300 ReAssure had 
offered in compensation for the inconvenience hed been caused was fair in the circumstances. 
But Mr O didnt accept this. He said it was impossible to complete the fund switch he wanted 
if ReAssure was unable to tell him the value of his plan. Hed wanted to invest in the 
FTSE100 fund as it was low but had been prevented from doing so as ReAssure couldnt tell 
him his fund value.
But our Investigator didnt change her mind, so as no agreement could be reached the 
matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it would help all parties to this dispute to understand the parameters of my 
investigation. I understand there has been at least one other complaint made to ReAssure 
by Mr O, which is why I feel it is necessary to make this clear. I am considering the events 
connected to Mr Os PPP between 15 October 2020 up until the date he was sent 
ReAssures final response to his complaint  18 March 2021. Anything that has happened 
after this date would need to be the subject of a new complaint should Mr O wish to make 
one, if he hasnt already done so.
I have looked closely at the timeline of events and have listened to the call recordings that 
have been provided. I can see that there are some other calls, made both by Mr O and 
ReAssure, which Ive not been sent. But having assessed the calls I have received Im 
satisfied that they are most likely the relevant ones and that they contain sufficient evidence 
for me to be able to come to a fair and reasonable outcome.
I also think, having reviewed everything, that there has been a degree of confusion, both on 
behalf of Mr O and the Investigator, about what happened and when. So Ive gone into some 
detail in the background section to try and make this as clear as possible. Were an 
alternative dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding 
this complaint Ive focussed on what I consider to be the heart of the matter, rather than 
commenting on every issue in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr O. Rather it 
reflects the informal nature of our Service, its remit and my role in it.
The £1,000 payment
It is not in dispute that Mr O sent two BACS payments, each for £500, on 15 October 2020, 
and he intended these payments to go into his PPP. But Mr O sent these electronic transfers 
to the account held by L&G, and the management of his PPP had already transferred to 
ReAssure. But I dont think this shouldve caused the level of inconvenience that Mr O 
experienced as a result. As the business responsible for taking over the servicing of his 
pension funds, ReAssure shouldve had a system in place to ensure a smooth handover of 
Mr Os policy, and this included any funds being held by L&G. 
I can see it took until the end of February 2021 for the funds to be applied to Mr Os PPP. I 
dont think it fair that he had to experience the uncertainty and stress for four months without 
knowing if these funds would be found. Having said that, I can see that ReAssure have 
backdated this payment to the day it was made, 15 October 2020. So as there have been no 
significant changes to the investment funds within his PPP Im satisfied Mr O hasnt suffered 
a financial loss due to these delays. So, in respect of this complaint point, it is only the 
distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr O that I have to consider.The intended fund switch
Again, for clarity, I am only considering whether Mr O was able, between 15 October 2020 
and 18 March 2021, to make the fund switches he wanted to. And if he wasnt, whether this 
was the fault of ReAssure. Its this complaint point which I think has caused some confusion 
to the Investigator and, to a certain extent, Mr O. 
Mr Os PPP, when transferred to ReAssure, consisted of cash funds and property funds to a 
total value of approximately £55,000. The majority of this (just under £52,000) was held in a 
cash fund.
Having listened closely to the call made on 15 October 2020, Mr O and ReAssure have 
discussed in some detail the funds he has within his PPP. And Mr O focusses most of the 
conversation on the AMC associated with each of the funds. He is concerned that one has 
an AMC of 4.5% when the others are all 0.5%. The only transfer he discusses or appears to 
want on this call is to move the amount within the most expensive fund into the main and 
significantly cheaper fund. So Im satisfied that Mr O most likely didnt, at this point, want to 
transfer into any fund which wasnt already in his PPP.
Mr O called ReAssure again on 22 October 2020, but again did not mention any wish to 
transfer his pension funds. He was just concerned about when the £1,000 would be applied 
to his pension.
From what I can see, the first time an alternative switch to a managed fund was mentioned 
by Mr O was in the call he made on 25 November 2020. Hed called to get help to access his 
online account as he hadnt received the code required. ReAssure said this had been sent 
out in a letter but addressed to his old work address. So Im satisfied that Mr O wasnt able 
to access his online account and so wasnt able, up to this point, to conduct any fund 
switches he may have wished to using this online method. And Mr O said on this call that 
hed wanted to transfer into a managed fund about a month ago to take advantage of the 
low stock market, and had lost about £5,000 as a result of not being able to do so. He asked 
if ReAssure could do that for him, but he couldnt continue the call as he had a meeting to go 
to. He asked for ReAssure to ring him back to arrange the switch. A 48-hour call back was 
offered, but this call back didnt happen.
So I can see that between 15 October 2020 and 27 November 2020 Mr O was most likely 
considering switching his funds into a more equity-based arrangement. But I cant see it 
would be fair or reasonable to hold ReAssure responsible for Mr Os funds not being 
exposed to the rise in the markets to this point. I acknowledge that he didnt have access to 
the online account so was unable to make the switch himself, but he was aware he could 
telephone ReAssure to arrange this, as he had done on 15 October, and he also couldve 
sent the instruction by email. So he had reasonable options available to him to arrange the 
switch had he wished to.
Whilst not calling him back as it had agreed to do, on 27 November 2020 ReAssure sent 
Mr O a breakdown of the funds in his PPP, and a list of the available alternative funds he 
could transfer all, or part of it into. Having not received the call back, and having received the 
list of available funds, I think it more likely than not that Mr O wouldve called ReAssure at 
this point had he wanted to transfer any of his funds. I cant see that he did call them until 17 
December 2020, and the focus of this call was making a complaint about the missing £1,000 
and not getting the call back hed been promised. So I cant say it is likely that Mr O wanted 
to switch his funds up to 17 December 2020 either. And furthermore, the remaining calls 
which occurred in December 2020 all referred to the missing £1,000 and transferring all his 
funds into the cash account. There was no mention of transferring into any alternative equity-
based fund. So whilst I think Mr O was looking at the market, and using his experience to decide if and 
when it would be prudent to take advantage of low prices, I cant fairly hold ReAssure 
responsible for this lost opportunity. I say this because I can see Mr O was able to call or 
email to give transfer instructions, and Ive not seen any evidence to lead me to think he did 
this between October and December 2020.
The reason I think there is some confusion about this point is because Mr O has told our 
Investigator, on two occasions, that he was unable to transfer his funds into the stock market 
due to ReAssure not giving him a fund value. And he rightly says that you cannot transfer 
funds without knowing the value of those funds. But between October 2020 and March 2021 
ReAssure was able to provide fund values whenever it was asked. And during the particular 
calls in October, November and December 2020 these values were always provided when 
Mr O asked for them. So not being given a fund value did not stop Mr O being able to 
transfer during these months. I think the confusion has arisen as ReAssure have been 
unable to provide the value more recently (this has subsequently been resolved) as it had to 
undertake a manual calculation. But my decision doesnt cover the more recent events, and 
if Mr O feels that ReAssure is responsible for any more recent lost investment opportunity, 
then he should make a complaint to it, if he hasnt already.
Distress and inconvenience caused
ReAssure has acknowledged the customer service it has provided throughout this period is 
not up to its required standard, and I can see it has had a significant impact on Mr O. Firstly 
£1,000 of his money was apparently missing, and he only received confirmation that it had 
been located after two months, and it took a further two months to apply it to his PPP. I can 
understand how worrying and frustrating this wouldve been for Mr O, and this wouldve been 
exacerbated by the problems he was experiencing with the fund switches, the incorrectly 
addressed letters and the lack of the promised call back.
Im satisfied all of this wouldve likely caused Mr O significant distress and inconvenience. 
ReAssure has already offered to pay Mr O £300 to reflect this, and Im satisfied this is fair 
and reasonable, and is broadly in line with the approach our Service takes in these types of 
circumstances. So I wont be requiring ReAssure to do anything more in this regard.
My final decision
I do not require ReAssure Limited to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023. 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman