DRN-3144516
The complaint
Ms S complains that Wyse Services Ltd, trading as Mortgage Wyse, mis-sold her a
decreasing term assurance plan when she had taken out an interest-only mortgage. It also
didnt provide the income protection she wanted.
What happened
In 2012, Ms S started a life and critical illness mortgage protection plan on the
recommendation of an appointed representative of Mortgage Wyse, known as Best4U. The
plan provided decreasing term cover of £60,000 over 7 years.
Ms S cancelled the plan in 2017.
In 2019, Ms S complained about the sale of the plan. She said that she felt she had been
paying for something that didnt do what it was supposed to do. She said that at no time did
it cover the full amount of her outstanding mortgage, and it had been set up on a decreasing
basis when her mortgage was interest-only. She said that she had wanted income
protection, not critical illness cover and had been financially affected when shed tried to
make a claim, but found she wasnt covered.
Mortgage Wyse said that its records suggested that decreasing term assurance had been
sold because level term assurance was too expensive for Ms S. It said it had been
appropriate to include critical illness cover and this had been discussed and was what Ms S
wanted. It said Ms S had told the policy provider that she thought the plan cost a lot of
money. Mortgage Wyse said that the monthly premium was based on a number of factors
and thought her premium was correct for the type of plan, Ms Ss circumstances and the
benefits provided.
The investigators opinion
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She
said that she thought it was appropriate for the adviser to have recommended life and critical
illness cover for Ms Ss mortgage, but she said she hadnt seen anything which showed that
the costs of a level term policy were considered at the time. However, she noted that such a
policy had been previously looked at and it wasnt affordable for Ms S. The investigator
thought it was likely that it a level term policy wouldve been more expensive for Ms S in
2012. The recommended decreasing term assurance policy was within her budget and
wouldve given her the benefit of having life and critical illness cover in place for the term of
her mortgage.
The investigator also said that there wasnt any information from the time of the advice to
show that Ms S asked for an income protection policy. She said the letter of confirmation
from the adviser said that Ms Ss policy would provide life and critical illness cover.
Ms S didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for her complaint to be reviewed.
She said she had been mis-sold incorrect and unsuitable insurance by someone who wasnt
a qualified financial adviser. She said Mortgage Wyse had said she hadnt dealt with that
particular adviser directly, when that wasnt the case. Ms S said that her complaint was
justified because the adviser wasnt qualified.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. I summary, I said I 
didnt think it should be upheld.
I said that my consideration related to the term assurance policy Ms S took out in 2012. 
Although I am unable to consider a complaint about the earlier policies Ms S took out in 
2007 and 2010, I said I thought the history Ms S had with Best4U gave some indication of 
the reasons behind her taking decreasing term assurance in 2012 when she had an interest-
only mortgage.
With a decreasing term policy, the cover provided decreases over its term so it would
generally be suitable to protect a debt that also reduces over the time it is held, such as a
repayment mortgage. A level term assurance policy gives a specified amount of cover
throughout its term so would generally be suitable to protect a debt that also stays at the
same level, such as an interest-only mortgage.
In 2007, Ms S took out her mortgage on an interest-only basis when she was buying her
home under the right-to-buy scheme. The mortgage was for ten years. Rather than having a
repayment vehicle for this loan, the mortgage application records that Ms S planned to sell
the property, which I understood she later did.
The information from that time includes quotations for level term assurance policies, but the
notes were that the monthly premiums were too expensive for Ms S, and so decreasing term
policies were considered instead.
So although a level term assurance policy would generally be a more appropriate plan to
protect the repayment of Ms Ss interest-only mortgage; a decreasing term assurance policy
provided a form of protection for her mortgage for a lower monthly premium.
When Ms Ss existing protection plan was reviewed in 2012, it showed that the cover it gave
her had reduced to £46,000. The documentation from the time noted that she wanted to
increase the cover to £60,000 over a seven-year term. So a new life and critical illness policy
was recommended to provide this.
Ms S said that her expectation from this policy was that it would provide her with an
income in the event of sickness or an injury that prevented her from working, and that it
would pay off her mortgage in the event of her death.
However, this particular policy didnt include income protection. The policy schedule 
confirmed that the benefit amount would reduce each month over the seven-year term, and 
that this would be payable if Ms S died or was diagnosed as having a defined critical illness 
and lived beyond the survival period.
Having reviewed the documentation from the time this policy was taken out, I didnt see
anything to indicate that income protection was discussed or requested. The policy seemed 
to have been taken as a means to replace the life and critical illness cover Ms S already had
and increase the amount it would pay out in the event of a claim.I said I appreciated the point Ms S has made about the adviser not being qualified to provide 
her with the advice they did, but I didnt think this was the case. In its response to Ms Ss 
complaint, Mortgage Wyse referred to her belief that this adviser had arranged her mortgage 
and said that this was incorrect as they werent qualified or authorised in mortgage advice 
and arranging. But this doesnt mean that they werent authorised to arrange insurance 
products such as term assurance.
Taking everything into account, I didnt think this policy was mis-sold to Ms S. This
was because I thought it enabled her to have some form of life and critical illness cover for 
her mortgage in a means that was affordable for her monthly budget. I thought it was clear 
that the cover provided would gradually go down over the term and it did, as this was the 
reason why she looked to review her policies through the time she had her mortgage and 
replace them to get a higher level of cover for her stated budget.
The responses
Mortgage Wyse responded to say that it had nothing further to add.
Ms S said, in summary, that the central factor in her case has always been the incorrect 
advice given to her and the mis-selling of a mortgage and a mortgage protection insurance 
by an unauthorised financial adviser. She said that her requirement was for an income 
protection policy, and this has been mentioned in all her correspondences and verbal 
communications. She asked that I reconsider my decision and give recognition to some 
accountability for misdemeanour on the part of the adviser.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly reiterate that my consideration here is with regards to Ms Ss complaint about 
her term assurance policy. Her concerns about the mortgage advice she received need to be 
addressed under a separate complaint.
Although Ms S has referred to the adviser not being qualified to provide her with advice 
about this policy, as I said in my provisional decision, I dont think this was the case. 
Mortgage Wyse has said that the adviser wasnt qualified or authorised to give advice about 
a mortgage itself, and that a different person at Best4U arranged it. This doesnt mean that 
the adviser wasnt authorised to give Ms S advice about her protection and insurance 
requirements. 
And I although I appreciate that Ms S has referred to her belief that the policy was a form of 
income protection in bringing her complaint, having fully reviewed the documentation from 
the time this life and critical illness policy was sold to her, I havent seen that income 
protection was mentioned or discussed. The fact find from the time has a table to record the 
protection priorities. Death Benefit and Critical Illness Benefit both have a priority rating of 
1, where 1 is the most important and 5 is the least. Income Benefit is noted as 5, so the 
least priority rating. 
Overall, my findings remain that I dont think this policy was mis-sold to Ms S.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman