DRN-3216962
Complaint
Ms B has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) provided 
her with an unaffordable loan. 
She says that she was already £30,000.00 in debt at the time of the application and 
proportionate checks would have shown this as well as the fact that she shouldnt have been 
lent to.
Background
Tesco Bank provided Ms B with a loan for £9,445.43 in February 2017. The loan had an 
APR of 10.5% and a 48-month term. This meant that the total amount to repay of 
£11,504.16, which included interest of £2,058.73 was due to be repaid in 48 monthly 
instalments of just under £240. 
This was in fact Ms Bs second loan with Tesco Bank and some of the proceeds were used 
to settle the first loan. Ms B has confirmed that shes only complaining about the second loan 
Tesco Bank provided so weve limited our consideration to this loan. And all references 
made to loan from this point onwards are made towards loan 2 taken in February 2017. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that Tesco Bank shouldnt 
have provided this loan as it ought to have realised it was unaffordable. 
Tesco Bank disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Ms Bs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Ms Bs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Tesco Bank complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Ms B would be able to repay her loan without experiencing difficulty or suffering 
significant adverse consequences?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Ms B wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Tesco Bank act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Tesco Bank complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms B 
would be able to repay her loan without experiencing difficulty or suffering significant 
adverse consequences?
Tesco Bank provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Tesco Bank to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Ms Bs ability to make the repayments 
under these agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Tesco Bank had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Ms B. In practice this 
meant that Tesco Bank had to ensure that making the payments to the loans wouldnt cause 
Ms B undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Tesco Bank to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Tesco Banks checks reasonable and proportionate?Tesco Bank says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Ms B prior 
to providing her with this loan. This information was validated against a credit check and 
bank statements which Ms B provided. 
So bearing in mind Tesco Bank says and has evidenced that it obtained a significant amount 
of information on Ms Bs circumstances, Im prepared to accept that it did carry out 
proportionate checks  at least in terms of the information requested  before providing this 
loan to Ms B.
Did Tesco Bank make a fair lending decision?
It isnt enough for a lender to simply request information from a consumer before deciding to
lend to them. So even if a lender may have requested a proportionate amount of information,
it may still be the case that it will not have acted fairly and reasonably towards that consumer
if it didnt carry out a fair and reasonable evaluation of the information it obtained.
I say this because a lender is required to carry out an assessment of the borrowers ability to
repay any credit advanced. And any assessment requires an evaluation, judgement,
appraisal and scrutiny of any information obtained. Tesco Bank says its assessment of the 
information obtained led it to conclude that Ms Bs loan was affordable for him as hed be 
able to sustainably make his repayments.
Tesco Bank was required to establish whether Ms B could make her loan repayments 
without borrowing further or experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just 
whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided in light of this. Having done so, its worth 
noting even on Tesco Banks own assessment the internal score Ms B achieved indicated 
that she was high risk. Tesco Bank checks also indicate that Ms Bs debts had increased by 
£10,000.00 in the few months between loan 1 being taken and this application and she was 
now almost at the limit of her credit limits on her revolving credit facilities 
So while there might not have been missed payments on Ms Bs credit file, I think it would be 
a bit of a stretch to say that her debs were well managed. Indeed, Id in fact argue that Tesco 
Banks checks showed that Ms Bs financial position was deteriorating. 
Furthermore, the bank statements Tesco Bank asked Ms B to provide showed that she was 
earning less significantly less than what Ms B declared as her income. It also shows that the 
amount going into her account was less than what was going out and that Ms B was 
significantly overdrawn. 
Ive seen what Tesco Bank has said about Ms B saying that her income was seasonal and 
that she was being asked for statements for a period where her earnings were lower than 
usual. But I dont see how this means that it was reasonable for Tesco Bank to include the 
ad-hoc contributions Ms Bs statements showed she received from her son, in that period, as 
income when there was no suggestion from Ms B that she expected to receive this for the 
duration of the loan. Given the significant mismatch between what was declared and what 
Ms B was able to evidence, I dont think it was fair and reasonable to make assumptions 
about what Ms Bs son would be contributing going forwards either.
So while I appreciate what Tesco Bank said in response to our investigators assessment, 
Im satisfied that Tesco Bank ought to have been on notice that Ms Bs income was much 
lower than the figure it used in its income and expenditure assessment. And when Ms Bs 
substantially lower income is coupled with her already being heavily overdrawn, Im satisfied that it was unlikely Ms B had sufficient funds to repay what she was being asked to commit 
to without borrowing further or experiencing difficulty.
Therefore, in my view, while Tesco Bank may have believed that the monthly payments were 
pounds and pence affordable for Ms B, even though Im not persuaded of this, I, in any 
event, am satisfied the information gathered suggested Ms B was always unlikely to be able 
to make the payments she was being asked to commit to without borrowing further or 
suffering significant adverse consequences. 
Bearing this in mind, and what exactly it was Tesco Bank was required to consider, Im 
satisfied that Tesco Banks decision to provide this loan to Ms B wasnt fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Did Tesco Bank act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms B in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that Tesco Bank acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms B in some other way. 
Did Ms B lose out as a result of Tesco Bank unfairly providing him with his loan?
As Ms B paid and shes still being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan that 
she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what 
Tesco Bank did wrong.
So I think that Tesco Bank needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Tesco Bank needs to do to put things right for Ms B
Having thought about everything, Tesco Bank should put things right for Ms B by:
Removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Ms Bs loan from the outset. The 
payments Ms B made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£9,445.43 originally lent. Tesco Bank should treat any payments made should the 
new starting balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments, if there 
are any, should be refunded to Ms B;
Adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Ms B to the date of settlement;
If an outstanding balance remains on Ms Bs loan once these adjustments have been 
made, Tesco Bank should contact Ms B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this.
If, after all adjustments have been made, no outstanding balance remains, Tesco 
Bank should remove any and all adverse information it may have recorded about this 
loan from Ms Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to take off tax from this interest. Tesco 
Bank must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint. Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC needs to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman