DRN-2722701
The complaint
Mr K complains that his application for a bank account was declined by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC and that it hasnt given him adequate reasons why it was declined.
 What happened
Mr K applied for a bank account with Barclays in July 2020. His application wasnt accepted 
and he was told that it was because of issues with his credit file. He says that he checked his 
credit file and was unable to identify any issue. He complained to Barclays in October 2020 
and it said that his application was declined due to third party information provided by credit 
reference agencies.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. He says that he applied 
for a credit card with another provider and got the credit card without any issues which 
indicates that his credit report has no problems and hes a full-time employee and hasnt had 
any financial difficulties. He says that hes been discriminated against.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. He said that he 
hadnt found that Barclays had acted unfairly in the circumstances so he wouldnt be 
recommending that it do anything differently.
Mr K has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that Barclays 
didnt give him a reasonable explanation of why it rejected his application and didnt inform 
him of the credit reference agency name that it took the information from. He says that hes 
written to the credit reference agencies and theyve all said that his record was fine. He 
would like to get this information clarified to help him sort out any credit issue otherwise it will 
adversely affect him in the future.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
theres no requirement for a bank to provide banking services for a customer or 
potential customer  and there was no requirement for Barclays to provide banking 
services to Mr K  he applied for a bank account and it declined his application as it 
was entitled to do;
a bank isnt required to give reasons for a decision not to provide banking services to 
a customer or potential customer  and Barclays wasnt required to give reasons to 
Mr K for its decision not to provide him with banking services;
it says that his application was declined due to third party information provided by 
credit reference agencies  and Im not persuaded that it was required to provide any 
more information than that to Mr K;
Im satisfied that Barclays checked Mr Ks credit file and that, as a result of the 
information contained on his application, his credit file and other information available 
to it, it decided not to offer him an account;
Mr K says that the credit reports that hes checked are good, he was able to get a 
credit card from another provider and that hes in full-time employment  but that isnt 
enough to show that Barclays has treated him less favourably than someone else in 
the same circumstances, or acted incorrectly, as different financial businesses use 
different information for their decisions;
having considered all of the information thats available to me, Im not persuaded that 
Barclays has treated Mr K less favourably compared with someone else in the same 
circumstances;
Mr K clearly wants to address any issues with his credit file to avoid any problems in 
the future but, although I can understand the frustration that he feels, I dont consider 
that Barclays has acted incorrectly; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Barclays to provide 
banking services to Mr K, to provide him with any more information about its decision 
not to offer him banking services, to pay him any compensation or to take any other 
action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont upheld Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman