DRN-3829004
The complaint
Mr W complains about advice given in 2002 by O2 Associates Limited, then an appointed
representative of Investment Strategies Limited (ISL), to take out a stakeholder pension plan
(SHPP).
Old Mutual Wealth Holdings Ltd (Old Mutual) is now responsible for the advice O2
Associates Ltd gave. Old Mutual says the complaint has been made too late and we cant
consider it.
What happened
Mr W says the advice to take out a SHPP was unsuitable and he shouldve been advised to 
buy added years in his employers pension scheme instead. 
I issued a provisional decision on 4 November 2022. I considered if Mr Ws complaint had 
been made in time and if it should be upheld. On balance, I thought the complaint had been 
made too late - more than six years after the event complained of  the advice given in 2002 
 and more than three years from when Mr W became aware (or ought reasonably to have 
become aware) he had cause for complaint. 
In summary, I didnt think the fact that Mr W bought added years in 2007 was, on its own, 
sufficient to call into question the advice he received in 2002 to take out a SHPP instead of 
buying added years. As I said, his complaint wasnt that he wasnt made aware of all his 
options, including added years, but that the SHPP wasnt suitable for him. But, looking at the 
reasons why he thought the SHPP was unsuitable, I thought hed have been aware of those 
factors earlier. So it followed he reasonably ought to have become aware he had cause for 
complaint earlier too. 
But, because the position wasnt straightforward and as I recognised there was some 
overlap between jurisdiction and merits, I also considered if the complaint should be upheld. 
For the reasons I set out I didnt think complaint succeeded. 
In summary, Mr W had said that in 2002 hed returned from working abroad and hed done 
locum work. But, and as the adviser knew, he was taking up a full time position and his 
locum work would stop. I said, based on what was recorded at the time, Mr W had other 
income and so he was eligible to contribute to the SHPP. It was clear that his continued 
eligibility depended on him having other earnings. And that it was Mr Ws responsibility to 
ensure he was still eligible to contribute to the SHPP. If that wasnt the plan going forwards, 
Mr W shouldve pointed that out. Mr W seemed to have confirmed in 2005 and 2006 that he 
still had other work. I also thought the SHPP added a degree of balance for Mr W  he 
wasnt risk averse and he had capacity for loss. I didnt think the charges for the SHPP were 
an issue. Mr Ws decision to buy added years in 2007 (having been told by his employer that 
option would no longer be available after April 2008) didnt mean the SHPP was unsuitable 
in 2002. 
Mr W didnt accept my provisional decision and wanted to clarify some points, including: 
In July 2002 when the advice was given he wasnt a member of the employers 
pension scheme. But hed be rejoining in August 2000. The adviser knew Mr W 
wouldnt be doing any more locum work and shouldnt have advised taking out the 
SHPP. Mr W appreciated the onus was on him to check but he didnt know at the 
time he was required to have additional income. If that had been clearly explained he 
wouldnt have agreed to the SHPP. He and the adviser met annually so Mr Ws 
position was clear. If hed been told he was ineligible for the SHPP hed have 
stopped his contributions. 
The adviser knew Mr Ws financial situation in 2006 when Mr W switched providers. 
Mr W queried if that switch was appropriate or he hed been churned. He suggested 
the adviser had to put down £500 for additional work to cover himself and allow Mr W 
to continue to pay into the SHPP. 
Mr W suggested the adviser wouldnt have financially benefited by recommending 
added years in 2002 when Mr W rejoined the employers scheme and so encouraged 
Mr W to take out the SHPP which wasnt as favourable for Mr W as buying added 
years. Added years wouldve also been cheaper than when Mr W purchased them in 
2007. 
Mr W has a disability and, as the employers scheme offers ill health early retirement, 
added years wouldve been a better option given his medical history, of which the 
adviser was fully aware. 
In 2007 hed been notified by his employer about added years, which were to be 
phased out in 2008. It was a no brainer to take the offer up because hed joined the 
NHS Pension Scheme in 2000 and he was 27 at the time. It wasnt the case that he 
knew hed been mis sold the SHPP. He saw it just as having additional pension and 
he continued with the SHPP. 
It wasnt the case that hed bought added years due to the availability of a spouses, 
partners or dependents benefits. The reason was that hed joined the NHS Pension 
Scheme later in life than most doctors and he wanted to maximise his pension. He 
believed his added years had cost him more than if hed taken them out in 2002.
He disputed that the SHPP could deliver greater benefits than added years. The 
latter was a better option in terms of a guaranteed return. Hed have been better off 
in the long term if hed bought added years in 2002.
Hed trusted the adviser and had no idea there was a potential issue around the 
suitability of the SHPP until he was contacted by his representative in 2018. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered again if Mr Ws complaint has been made in time and if it should be upheld. 
I dont think Mr W has said anything new about why his complaint wasnt made too late. Hes 
reiterated that he was unaware until 2018, and as a result of what his representative told him 
then, that he had cause for complaint. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, even if I 
accept that Mr W wasnt actually aware until 2018 I still have to consider when he ought 
reasonably to have become aware. And, if that was more than three years before he 
complained, the complaint (unless Mr Ws circumstances were exceptional and theres no 
suggestion they were), will still have been made too late. My views about that remain as set 
out in my provisional decision. 
But, and even if the complaint has been made in time, I still dont think it can be upheld. I note what Mr W has said about having a disability and why he considers, although 
fortunately his health has been good, hed have been better off with added years. I can 
entirely understand his position and why he considers the benefits offered by added years 
are generally more valuable. But Im not deciding the complaint with the benefit of hindsight. 
What Im considering is the advice at the time. If I cant say the advice was unsuitable in 
2002 then I cant uphold Mr Ws complaint.    
For the reasons Ive already indicated, I dont think the advice to take out the SHPP was 
unsuitable. Or that Mr Ws circumstances in 2002 were such that he shouldve been advised 
to buy added years instead. 
The suitability letter did set out all Mr Ws options, including added years, and the costs. I 
think the projected returns for the SHPP wouldve looked attractive. At the time Mr W had 
other income source and so he was eligible for the SHPP. I think he was prepared to take 
some risk. Thats evidenced by the funds in which the SHPP was invested. And his position 
was that he could afford to take some risk. Although I note what Mr W has said about his 
decision to buy added years in 2007 not being based on changes to his personal 
circumstances, an individuals situation, including their attitude to investment risk and other 
factors, such as career plans and financial attitude generally, can change over time. Just 
because Mr W bought added years in 2007 doesnt mean that he shouldve been advised to 
do that in 2002. 
Mr W also suggests the advice to switch in 2006 may have been unsuitable. But, as I 
explained in my provisional decision, 02 Associates Limited left ISLs network on 31 May 
2005. So, even if there was some issue about advice given in 2006 and notwithstanding it 
may have been the same adviser, Old Mutual wont be responsible. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman