DRN-3342541
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) allowed three gambling 
transactions to go through on his account despite being aware of his gambling addiction and 
placing a block on his account. 
What happened
In October 2021, Mr A visited a casino and made three gambling transactions totalling 
£9,500, all within half an hour. He feels that NatWest should have blocked the transactions, 
or at the very least they should have contacted him before allowing the money to leave his 
account. 
He said NatWest were aware of his gambling addiction as a complaint had been raised with 
them in 2018. Hes also unhappy as he was only made aware after raising his complaint that 
there is a setting on his banking app that he could have activated to prevent these types of 
gambling transactions from going through. 
NatWest explained that they did place a block on Mr As account for gambling transactions in 
2018 and confirmed at the time that the block wasnt guaranteed. They said that Mr A raised 
a complaint following the block being put in place about another transaction that had taken 
place, and they had explained that stopping the transactions isnt a guarantee. The 
complaint was also brought to our service, and we agreed. 
NatWest also said that Mr A had removed the self-exclusion on visiting a casino in August 
2021, and that this enabled him to carry out the transactions in October. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that NatWest hadnt made any mistake or acted unfairly 
in allowing the transactions to go through. He explained that while a block was in place on 
Mr As account when he made the payments, they arent always guaranteed. He explained 
that NatWests system didnt fail to recognise the transactions, but that it was due to the 
Merchant Category Codes (MCC) that were used by the gambling merchant. He explained 
what these were and how they related to Mr As circumstances. 
He also said that while NatWest hadnt previously told Mr A about the gambling control 
feature on his app, he didnt believe it would have made a difference to the overall outcome 
of the complaint as the feature wouldnt necessarily work if the transactions were to go 
through as offline ones, which is usually the case for chip and pin (which Mr A used). 
Mr A disagreed with our investigators opinion and so his complaint has been passed to me 
for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for the 
same reasons. I will explain why. 
I note that Mr A raised a complaint with our service back in 2018. While I have considered 
events that took place at that time, I have considered this complaint on its own merit.  
NatWest placed a gambling block on Mr As account in June 2018. At the time, they 
explained the block wasnt always guaranteed and that some transactions could still be 
processed. 
When a gambling block is placed on an account, a bank will use MCCs to try and identify 
transactions that should be stopped. 
NatWest have explained that an MCC is a four-digit number that is used to identify 
merchants by the type of goods or services they provide. There are around 900 individual 
MCCs and these are assigned by merchant type, or merchant name.
The code used shows the merchant that the customer has asked for payments to them to be 
prevented, but the merchant can still process the customers payment request. 
The payments made by Mr A were also chip and pin, which go through a different 
authentication process compared to an online payment for example, and there is much less 
of a chance they would be stopped.
When NatWests case handler spoke to Mr A, he confirmed he had made the payments at a 
casino. NatWest have provided evidence of the MCC that was in place when Mr A visited the 
casino, and it wasnt one recognised as a gambling one, meaning the block was in place, but 
didnt work. 
The case handler also asked Mr A about self-exclusion and if he had done this previously. 
Mr A confirmed that he was self-excluded until August when he removed the exclusion.
Having considered this, I cant see what more NatWest could have done in this situation. 
The block was in place at the time the payments were made, but as has been previously 
confirmed, a block couldnt always be guaranteed. It would also be impossible for NatWest 
to monitor every transaction someone may make. Given that the MCC used wasnt one 
recognised as a gambling one, and as chip and pin transactions are usually a lot more 
secure and therefore allowed to go through, I cant see what else NatWest could have done 
to stop the payments from being taken. 
In relation to the gambling block feature on Mr As banking app, I can see that NatWest sent 
him an email in December 2021 explaining how it works. While I appreciate that Mr A is 
unhappy he wasnt told about this feature until after he complained, it only became available 
on the app in September 2019, after his initial complaint was made. 
As Mr A had previously made NatWest aware he had a gambling problem, I think there 
wouldve been an onus on them to have let him know that the block was available. However, 
he had removed the self-exclusion tool prior to visiting the casino, and the block would work 
in much the same way (its not permanent and he could opt in and out whenever he wanted). 
So I dont think that telling him the block feature had been launched wouldve made a 
fundamental difference.
Also, as the transactions were chip and pin and therefore shown as offline ones, its likely 
they still would have gone through even if the block had been activated. 
I do appreciate Mr As feeling on this matter, and while we always take complaints about 
gambling addiction very seriously, I cant say that NatWest were at fault here. I know this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for but I hope I have explained why Im not able to ask 
NatWest to return the money spent by Mr A.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman