DRN-4223182
Complaint
Miss T has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Finio Loans) 
provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable and so shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Finio Loans provided Miss T with a loan for £2,000.00 in August 2022. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £134.33. One of our adjudicators reviewed what        
Miss T and Finio Loans had told us. And she didnt recommend that Miss Ts complaint be 
upheld. Miss T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ts complaint.
Finio Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Finio Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss T could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Finio Loans says it agreed to Miss Ts application after she provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Miss T could 
afford to make the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Miss T has said 
she was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss T and Finio Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Finio Loans has suggested it carried out credit searches 
which showed that Miss T didnt have that much in the way of existing credit commitments 
and what she did have was relatively well maintained. It also obtained a recent payslip from 
Miss T as well as a copy of a bank statement.
Its fair to say that Miss T had had previous difficulties repaying credit. However, these were 
historic and Miss Ts existing commitments at the time of this application were relatively well 
maintained. I accept that Miss T appears to be suggesting that her actual circumstances 
may not have been fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the information 
Finio Loans obtained. 
But its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. Given the low amount borrowed, the low monthly payments  
and the lack of obvious indicators of difficulty in the information obtained, I dont think that 
Finio Loans decision to lend was unreasonable. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Finio Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Miss T - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. And, in any event, Ive not been provided with 
anything else that suggests Finio Loans doing even more would have prevented it from 
lending either.
So overall I dont think that Finio Loans treated Miss T unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with his loan. And Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Miss T. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like remind Finio of its obligation to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect on the outstanding balance on 
Miss Ts loan and it be the case that she is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman