DRN-4514310
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Vacation Finance Limited trading as VFL Finance Solutions 
(VFL) - didnt provide a fair and reasonable response to their claim under sections 75 and 
140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a timeshare product 
financed by a loan they provided.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs R were on holiday in or around June 2018 using a timeshare product theyd 
previously purchased from a supplier who Ill refer to as A. During that holiday, they met 
with A for a catch-up. Mr and Mrs R say this meeting rapidly turned into a sales presentation 
during which they agreed to exchange their existing timeshare product(s) for a points-based 
product offered by A. 
In addition to the product(s) exchanged, it was agreed that Mr and Mrs R would pay £26,500 
towards the points they purchased. They paid part of this with a by bank transfer of £7,950 
and the balance of £18,550 was funded under a fixed sum loan agreement over 120 months 
with VFL.
In April 2021, using a professional representative (the PR), Mr and Mrs R submitted a claim 
to VFL under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. In the claim, the PR alleged that Mr and Mrs 
R purchased the timeshare product having relied upon representations made by A which 
turned out not to be true. And under section 75 of the CCA (S75), VFL are jointly liable for 
those misrepresentations. In particular, the PR allege A had suggested the purchase of the 
points-based product:
would reduce annual maintenance fees payable to £1,500;
would provide access the whole year round with the option to sell points to receive an 
income;
apartments could be sold for £45,000 each which would replace some of Mr and Mrs 
Rs savings; and
would enable Mr and Mrs R to go on camper van holidays with guests and/or family  
but it was later discovered there was an age restriction impacting Mr and Mrs R and 
guests could only be taken every four years.
Further, the PR said that as A are in liquidation, they cant provide the service sold. They 
suggest this constitutes a breach of contract which VFL are jointly liable for under S75.
The PR also allege that the misrepresentations, together with other things done (or not 
done) by A renders the relationship with VFL, under the agreements, unfair pursuant to 
section 140A of the CCA (S140A). In particular, the PR allege that A breached various 
regulations and legislation that applies and:
pressured Mr and Mrs R into entering the purchase and loan agreements;
allowed them no time to read or consider the agreements;
failed to undertake appropriate affordability checks for the loan; 
failed to advise Mr and Mrs R of any commission they received from VFL;
made no comparisons to other loan companies; and
didnt inform Mr and Mrs R that they were free to arrange their own finance.
VFL didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Rs claim. They didnt agree there was any evidence to 
support the allegations of misrepresentation. Or that there was any evidence to support the 
allegations of unfairness under S140A. They also didnt think there was any evidence of loss 
from the alleged breach of contract.
The PR didnt agree with VFLs findings, so referred Mr and Mrs Rs claim to this service as 
a complaint. One of this services investigators considered all the information and evidence 
provided. Having done so, they didnt think VFL had acted fairly. In particular, they were 
persuaded that A had represented the points-based product to Mr and Mrs R as something 
that could be sold more easily and provide an income. But they havent been able to do that, 
and our investigator thought A wouldve known that at the time of the sale. Our investigator 
thought VFL hadnt fairly assessed Mr and Mrs Rs claim under S75. And had it done so, 
believes it wouldve been upheld. They thought VFL should put things right but didnt 
suggest how that should be done.
The PR acknowledged our investigators findings but said they havent received any 
subsequent offer of settlement from VFL. VFL asked that the investigator consider their own 
findings further taking into consideration the contents of the original claim response. I cant 
see that weve received anything further from VFL and they dont appear to have accepted 
our investigators findings. So, as an informal resolution couldnt be achieved, Mr and Mrs 
Rs complaint has been passed to me to consider further.
Having done that, I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. So, I issued a 
provisional decision on 15 November 2023 giving the parties to this complaint the 
opportunity to respond to my findings before I reach a final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the FCA2 Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides consumers with protection for goods or services bought using credit. Mr 
and Mrs R paid for the timeshare product under a restricted use fixed sum loan 
agreement. So, it isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. This means they would be 
afforded the protection offered to borrowers like them under those provisions. And as 
a result, Ive taken this section into account when deciding whats fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr and Mrs R and VFL 
arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreements). And 
because the product purchased was funded under that credit agreement, theyre 
deemed to be related agreements. Only a court has the power to make a 
determination under S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding 
what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered here and the 
legal claim. The complaint this service is able to consider specifically relates to 
whether I believe VFLs failure to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs claim was fair and 
reasonable given all the evidence and information available to me, rather than 
actually deciding the legal claim itself. 
1 Dispute Resolution: The Complaints sourcebook (DISP)
2 Financial Conduct AuthorityIts also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision 
of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont 
provide a legal service. And as Ive already said, this service isnt able to make legal 
findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings 
of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other 
ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address in my decision every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Based upon the information provided, it appears Mr and Mrs Rs claim here is one of 
a number of separate and concurrent claims submitted relating to various timeshare 
purchases made by Mr and Mrs R over a period of time. VFL have pointed this out in 
their claim response. So, its important to make clear that my decision here is only 
looking at the purchase Mr and Mrs R made in June 2018. And while I may consider 
other purchases made, I will do that where I feel it has relevance to the claim being 
considered.
Mr and Mrs Rs timeshare experience
In their written testimony, Mr and Mrs R have provided details of their various 
purchases and product holdings with A over the years. These include purchases 
made in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 (x 2), 2014 (x2), 2015 (x2), 2016, 2018 
(the subject of this complaint) and 2019.
From what Mr and Mrs R have said, the original purchase in 2007 appears to relate 
to a traditional timeshare apartment in a specified season. Additional timeshare 
apartments were then purchased and subsequently upgraded to higher specifications 
and seasons over time. Mr and Mrs R suggest that many of the purchase decisions 
were driven by a desire to derive a rental income with an opportunity to sell them 
later for a profit.
Its important to acknowledge that as part of this complaint, Ive not been provided 
with anything suggesting that VFL were involved in financing any of the 
aforementioned purchases. And in any event, they dont form part of this complaint  
other than for background information. So, in considering Mr and Mrs Rs complaint 
here, I havent investigated any of the (alleged) circumstances of those transactions.
Was the timeshare product misrepresented?
For me to conclude there was misrepresentation by A in the ways that have been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that A made false statements of fact when selling the timeshare product. In 
other words, that they told Mr and Mrs R something that wasnt true in relation to the 
allegations raised. I would also need to be satisfied that those misrepresentations 
were material in inducing Mr and Mrs R to enter into the purchase contract. This 
means I would need to be persuaded that they reasonably relied upon false 
statements when deciding to buy the timeshare points.
From the information available, I cant be certain about what Mr and Mrs R were 
specifically told (or not told) about the benefits of the points-based product they 
purchased. It was, however, indicated that they were told these things. So, Ive 
thought about that alongside the evidence that is available from the time. Although not determinative of the matter, I havent seen any documentation which supports the 
assertions in Mr and Mrs Rs claim, such as marketing material or documentation 
from the time of the sale that echoes what the PR says they were told. 
In particular the PR mention that the points-based product would result in reducing 
the annual maintenance fees to £1,500. But Ive not seen this documented. And I 
havent seen any comparison of what Mr and Mrs R were previously or subsequently 
required to pay. Ive also not seen anything that describes how the points could be 
used. Let alone whether they provide access the whole year round with an option to 
sell points to receive an income. And Ive seen no documentary evidence from the 
time to substantiate Mr and Mrs Rs suggestion that they were told they could go on a 
camper van holiday with family and friends. Or that any restrictions to that werent 
explained or provided to them at the time of the sale. 
Part of the claim references an allegation that A told Mr and Mrs R they would be 
able to sell apartments for £45,000 each. Again, Ive seen nothing to substantiate 
this. And as the product purchased was points-based, I fail to see how this would 
operate in any event. Ultimately, some of the allegations suggest the product was 
sold as an investment that could then be sold at a profit and/or derive an income. But 
theres simply no reference to this within the limited documentation provided.
I do think it unlikely the product can have been marketed and sold as an investment 
contrary to the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts 
Regulations 2010 (the TRs) simply because there might have been some inherent 
value to it. And in any event, Ive found nothing within the evidence provided to 
suggest A gave any assurances or guarantees about the future value of the product 
Mr and Mrs R purchased. A would had to have presented the product in such a way 
that used any investment element to persuade them to contract. Only then would 
they have fallen foul of the prohibition on marketing and selling certain holiday 
products as an investment, contrary to Regulation 14(3) of the TRs.
Mr and Mrs R have provided copies of their email exchanges with A in which they 
requested paperwork to enable them to sell part of their points allocation in 2020. So, 
Im persuaded that they intended to dispose of part of their points holding. And Mr 
and Mrs R may well have made the purchase as part of their own personal 
investment strategy. However, the question here is whether that strategy was 
specifically driven by any promises or assurances given by A. I acknowledge what Mr 
and Mrs R have said, but I havent found anything from the time of the sale that 
supports their assertions. And given their allegations around their ability to use the 
points towards a camper van holiday, Im not persuaded that they purchased the 
points solely as a form of investment. It seem clear they did intend to use them for 
holiday purposes.
In one of As email responses relating to Mr and Mrs Rs desire to sell points, they 
point out there is no guarantee on a timeframe or amount being given. So, I cant 
reasonably say, with any certainty, that A did guarantee the product could be sold for 
a profit. Im aware that A did previously offer a timeshare resale service. But I havent 
seen anything that shows they were contractually obliged to do so. And even if they 
were, I havent seen anything suggesting they gave any guarantees of a successful 
sale or the price that could be achieved. Because of that, its not possible to quantify 
if Mr and Mrs R did, in fact, incur any attributable loss in these circumstances.
Based upon the evidence available specifically relating to Mr and Mrs Rs claim here, 
I cant say, with any certainty, that A did misrepresent the points-based product in the 
manner alleged.
The breach of contract claim under S75As far as I understand, whilst A may have entered an insolvency process, the current 
management company confirm that timeshare owners remain able to fully utilise their 
timeshare products subject to the associated agreement requirements. So, in the 
absence of any specific explanation or evidence to support why Mr and Mrs R 
believe theres been a breach of contract which resulted in a loss for them, I havent 
seen anything that would lead me to conclude there was such a breach.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (VFL) and the debtor (Mr and 
Mrs R) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
The breadth of the unfair relationship test under S140A is stark. But a simple breach 
of a legal or equitable duty doesnt necessarily make the relationship unfair. It also 
isnt just about hard-edged requirements  though the standard of commercial 
conduct reasonably expected can be important. And while there may be features of 
the transaction that operate harshly against the debtor, it doesnt necessarily follow 
that the relationship is unfair. After all, such features may be required in order to 
protect what a court regards as legitimate interests. 
Relationships between businesses and private individuals are also often 
characterised by large differences of knowledge and expertise  which means theyre 
inherently unequal as a result. But as far as the Supreme Court was concerned in 
Plevin3, it cant have been parliaments intention that such relationships should be 
liable to be reopened for that reason alone.
In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor). And I think its relevant to acknowledge Mr and 
Mrs Rs existing membership and relationship with A. Theyd previously purchased 
products from A. So, I think its reasonable to conclude that, at the time of the 
purchase in June 2018, they had a reasonably strong awareness about the products 
theyd purchased, how they operated and any associated costs. I also think its 
reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs R were familiar with A (as a timeshare supplier) 
the format of their meetings and sales presentations, and their documentation. 
Particularly as the purchase in June 2018 certainly wasnt their first. 
The pressured sale and process
The claim suggests Mr and Mrs R were pressured into purchasing the product and 
entering into the finance agreement with VFL. I acknowledge what the PR have said 
about this. So, I can understand why it might be argued that any prolonged 
presentation might have felt like a pressured sale  especially if, as Mr and Mrs R 
approached the closing stages, they were going to have to make a decision on the 
day in order to avoid missing out on an offer that may not have been available at a 
later date.
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I find 
it hard to argue that Mr and Mrs R agreed to the purchase and the finance agreement 
3 The Supreme Courts judgement in Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014]in 2018 when they simply didnt want to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate 
that they went on to say something to A, after the purchase, suggesting theyd 
agreed to it when they didnt want to. And neither the PR nor Mr and Mrs R have 
provided a credible explanation for why they didnt subsequently seek to cancel the 
transaction within the 14-day cooling off period permitted here  both under the 
purchase and loan agreements. 
If they only agreed to the purchase and finance agreement because they felt 
pressured, I find this aspect difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. I 
havent seen anything substantive to suggest they were obviously harassed or 
coerced into the agreements. And because of that, Im not persuaded that theres 
sufficient evidence to demonstrate that they made the decision to proceed because 
their ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have been  significantly 
impaired contrary to the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 
(CPUT).
Time to read and consider the information provided
Ive thought about the information that I believe should have been provided to Mr and 
Mrs R as required under the TRs. Ive seen very little from the time of the sale here, 
although theres no suggestion that A didnt provide all the required documentation. 
Whilst its possible Mr and Mrs R werent given sufficient time to read and consider 
the contents of the documentation at the time of the sale, even if I were to find that 
was the case  and I make no such finding  its clear they still had 14 days to 
consider their purchase and raise any questions or concerns they mightve had. And 
ultimately, if they were unhappy or uncertain, they couldve cancelled the agreement 
without incurring any costs.
Furthermore, I understand the finance agreement also included a 
withdrawal/cancellation period of 14 days. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr 
and Mrs R did raise any questions or concerns about either agreement. 
As responsibilities and disclosure of commission paid
Part of Mr and Mrs Rs S140A claim is based upon the status of A (as the introducer 
of the loan) and their (and VFLs) resultant responsibilities towards them. In 
particular, its argued that the payment of commission by VFL to A was kept from 
them. In response to the claim, VFL confirm that no commission was paid here. 
That said, I dont think any payment of commission by VFL to A wouldve been 
incompatible with their role in the transaction. A werent acting as an agent of Mr and 
Mrs R, but as the supplier of contractual rights they obtained under the timeshare 
product agreement. And, in relation to the loan, based upon what Ive seen so far, it 
doesnt appear it was As role to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation, 
or to give Mr and Mrs R advice or information on that basis. As far as Im aware, they 
were always at liberty to choose how they wanted to fund the transaction. 
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest VFL were under any regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of any commission paid in these circumstances. Nor is 
there any suggestion or evidence that Mr and Mrs R requested those details from 
VFL (or A) at any point. And on that basis, Im not persuaded its likely that a court 
would find that any non-disclosure or payment of commission wouldve created an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship under S140A, given the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Were the required lending checks undertaken?
There are certain aspects of Mr and Mrs Rs complaint that could be considered 
outside of S75 and S140A. In particular, in relation to whether VFL undertook a proper credit assessment. The PR allege that a proper affordability check wasnt 
completed by A.
Ordinarily, responsibility falls with the lender to conduct affordability checks as set out 
within the rules and guidance in the FCA Handbook (CONC4)  VFL in this case. In 
response to the claim, VFL said theyd followed their usual process and conducted 
an appropriate affordability assessment. 
Its relevant that the PR havent provided any evidence to show that the loans were 
unaffordable or unsuitable for Mr and Mrs R. And Ive not seen anything that supports 
any suggestion of financial difficulty from that time. 
If I were to find that VFL hadnt complied with the regulatory guidelines and 
requirements that applied here  and I make no such finding  I would need to be 
satisfied that had such checks been completed, they wouldve revealed that the loan 
repayments werent sustainably affordable for Mr and Mrs R in order to uphold their 
complaint here. Furthermore, I dont believe any regulatory failure would 
automatically mean that the loan agreement is null and void. It would need to be 
proven that any such failures resulted in a loss to Mr and Mrs R as a consequence.
But as Ive seen no specific information about Mr and Mrs Rs actual position at the 
time and no supporting evidence that they struggled to maintain repayments, I cant 
reasonably conclude the loan was unaffordable for them. Or that they suffered any 
loss as a consequence. 
Summary
I do realise Mr and Mrs R will be disappointed in my findings. And I want to reassure 
them Ive carefully considered everything thats been said and provided. Having done 
so, I havent found any evidence from the time of the sale to support the allegations 
included within their claim. So, I cant say that VFLs failure to uphold it was ultimately 
unfair or unreasonable. And because of that, I dont currently intend to ask them to 
do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VFL havent responded to my provisional decision. But the PR did acknowledge receipt and 
confirmed they would seek further instruction from Mr and Mrs R. But since then, no further 
comment, information or evidence has been provided. So, in these circumstances, Ive no 
reason to vary from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman
4 The Consumer Credit Sourcebook