DRN-2072364
The complaint
Mr M complains Zurich Assurance Ltd failed to advise him correctly about an optional waiver 
of contribution (WOC) on an Adaptable Personal Pension Plan he took out in 1998.
What happened
In September 1998, an Adaptable Pension Plan (APP) was set up as part of a Group 
Personal Pension Plan for Mr M by his employer. Mr M received advice from an adviser, 
authorised by Zurich. According to the application form, Mr M was 29 years old and an 
Operations Executive, his anticipated retirement age was 55, and the regular gross 
contribution was to be £66.66 per month. The commencement date for the plan was 1 
October 1998.
Mr M raised a complaint about the pension in 2018 and as part of the investigation,
he was sent the original application and sale documentation from the time. He noticed the 
document stated WOC had been recommended but not accepted as he declined to disclose 
his medical history. Mr M disputed this was the case. He says he feels this had been 
misrepresented and so he had been mis-sold the plan He raised a new complaint with Zurich 
about the WOC issue.
Zurich did not uphold the complaint. It said the paper work showed that WOC was discussed 
and declined by Mr M. It went on to say that as part of its investigation it reviewed all 
fourteen employee applications taken out at the time. Only two declined WOC, Mr M 
included, and so on balance it felt WOC had been discussed, but at it was an optional 
benefit it was the employees choice whether it should be included. 
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. An investigator looked 
into things for him. The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said the crux of this 
complaint lay in what was or wasnt discussed in a meeting that took place over 20 years 
ago. In these circumstances, he explained the approach of this service is to look at the 
documentary evidence provided at and after the meeting between the parties. He said whilst 
he didnt discount the possibility of a misunderstanding at that meeting, both the application 
form and the suitability letter clearly showed WOC was declined and the reason why clearly 
stated.
Mr M responded with several points. These included a challenge to the accepted view that 
he declined to disclose his medical history. He provided an unrelated policy taken out three 
years earlier in which he provided his medical history and asserted this showed clearly, he 
had no issue in doing so. He also said the compliance document, which summarised the 
information he provided wasnt signed by him. He maintains he was never given this 
document. Further, he says the pension application form was signed on 16 September 1998, 
but the suitability letter was dated 15 September 1998. Mr M asserts this is evidence the 
adviser had already decided Mr M wouldnt take WOC before the discussion took place.
The investigator considered the additional points made by Mr M, and issued a second view 
but he still didnt uphold the complaint. He accepted there were some anomalies but didnt 
agree that they showed with any certainty anything to contradict his earlier findings. On 
balance, he felt it was more likely than not WOC was discussed and declined by Mr M and 
so he didnt ask Zurich to do anything further.
Mr M disagreed. He remains of the view the plan was misrepresented and asked for an 
ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information from both parties afresh. Having done so, Im not going to 
uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, Ill explain 
why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I must take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider having been good 
industry practice.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say, what I think is more 
likely to have happened.
As the investigator has already said, the crux of this complaint lies in what was discussed 
between Mr M and his adviser in a meeting over twenty years ago. As I wasnt present at the 
meeting, I have looked at the documentary evidence provided at the time. In this case, as 
has already been said, it clearly says WOC was recommended by the adviser, but this was 
declined as Mr M didnt want to provide his medical history. The application confirming this 
information was signed by Mr M.
I appreciate Mr M is suggesting that as his employer would be making the contributions 
there was no reason why he wouldnt have accepted this, and he points to other non-related 
policies he has taken out which clearly demonstrated he has shared his health records on 
other occasions. Whilst I accept the employer would be making the contributions, its 
important to note this would be by way of redirecting part of Mr Ms monthly contribution to 
an insurance element, and so would have reduced the amount paid into the pension 
investment itself. I also note, Zurich carried out an investigation into the applications of all 
the employees and found all but two had opted to include WOC. This, of course, doesnt 
show with certainty this was discussed with Mr M, on the balance of probability this suggests 
to me the adviser did hold discussions about WOC, in order to include it on some 
applications and not others. 
I havent been persuaded that by revealing his medical history three years earlier for an 
assurance policy this necessarily indicates Mr M was willing to disclose this information for 
this pension plan.
Ive considered the additional points Mr M raised about the compliance document not being 
signed and the dates on the paperwork being earlier than the meeting. Im not persuaded these do suggest anything untoward. If Mr M is certain he only met the adviser once, then 
Im not sure how the adviser could have completed any information prior to meeting him. 
I also have to take into account Mr Ms responsibility to read the paperwork confirming the 
policies and where there is a mistake to highlight this to the adviser, so if Mr M didn't agree 
with what was said about WOC, he could and should have drawn the adviser's attention to it 
when he received the suitability report.
Overall, I find it more likely than not the evidence suggests that WOC was discussed at the 
time of the application and declined by Mr M, as such I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman