DRN-4434031
The complaint
Ms T complains that a course she purchased using her debit card supplied by Santander UK 
Plc (Santander) was not as described.
What happened
In November 2022, Ms T purchased a course from a supplier Ill refer to as D for £4,000. 
Ms T said she made an initial payment of £300 using a third party debit card, which she 
wasnt claiming back and then she made a further payment of £3,700 using her Santander 
debit card. 
In January 2023, Ms T complained to Santander. She said she had been introduced to D 
through a messaging app and following a video call with D, it told her how her business 
could be assisted. She said the first video call was cancelled by D due to illness. Ms T said 
this messed her week up and told D it was important for it to stick to the schedule. Following 
this, Ms T says she contacted S and said she had a change of heart. She said she wasnt 
happy with the coaching, but said she would stick with it given she had been told she 
couldnt have a refund. Ms T completed a dispute form for Santander and said the goods 
werent as described. She said she tried to stick to the coaching sessions but she wasnt 
convinced D would be able to mentor her.
Following this, Santander asked Ms T for further information. It asked her to provide a copy 
of the contract or invoice and the terms and conditions with the cancellation policy attached.
In February 2023, Ms T wrote back to Santander. She said Santander could find the terms 
and conditions on Ds website. She mentioned the website had been updated since she had 
signed up and she wasnt shown the terms or conditions before signing up. She said she 
had a video recording of the consultation and a copy of a guarantee agreement, which she 
didnt sign. She asked Santander how she could send this to it.
Shortly after, Santander wrote to Ms T and asked her to provide the date the service was 
cancelled, details of how Ms T tried to resolve the issue with D and any correspondence 
demonstrating this and a copy of the order form or invoice. It supplied a pre-paid envelope 
so Ms T could send the information to it. It also told Ms T it would need this information 
within 14 days or it may not be able to pursue the chargeback further.
Mrs T responded and said she had uploaded many documents and correspondence to 
Santanders portal. She said she couldnt upload the terms and conditions as the website 
had changed. She said she had more evidence of the cancellation, but she felt that she had 
already sent enough information to Santander. Ms T provided correspondence between her 
and D discussing her concerns and being refunded. She asked Santander to contact it by 
email if it needed to contact her as she would be away for a period of time. 
Santander responded and said it had reviewed Ms Ts complaint and some information was 
still missing. It said it couldnt progress Ms Ts claim without it. So Ms T complained.
Santander issued its response to Ms Ts complaint in March 2023. It said it followed the 
correct dispute process but not all of the information was provided to it. It said since then,  
Ms T had provided further information which it would review and then update Ms T. 
Unhappy with this, Ms T referred her complaint to this service. She reiterated her complaint 
and said she had sent Santander information twice to support her chargeback claim. She 
said Santander denied receiving this information. She also said she notified Santander she 
would be travelling abroad and asked it not to send her post, but it ignored this. She said to 
put things right, she wanted Santander to refund the £3,700 she paid for the course.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think Santander had acted fairly. She 
said she thought Santander had enough information to attempt a chargeback. However, she 
said even if it had done this, the probability of the chargeback succeeding was low. She said 
she couldnt see that D had acted outside its terms and conditions. So she didnt recommend 
Santander refund the £3,700, but she said Santander should pay Ms T £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Santander agreed. But Ms T disagreed. She said £150 didnt cover the calls she made or the 
distress caused when she found out her case was closed whilst she was abroad. She said D 
changed its terms and conditions and this is why they couldnt be located. 
Our investigator said the closing of the dispute by Santander was considered complaint 
handling which isnt something our service could consider. She said she agreed that 
Santander should have raised the chargeback earlier, but this wasnt a guaranteed form of 
refund and in this case, she didnt think the chargeback would have been successful.
Ms T said Santander should have checked the terms and conditions before the website 
updated.
As Ms T remains in disagreement, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Ms T has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. The rules of this service allow me to do this.
What I need to decide in this case is whether Santander correctly handled Ms Ts request to 
raise a chargeback and whether it acted unfairly in any other way. If I think it has acted 
unfairly, Ill need to decide whats fair, if anything, to put things right. 
Chargeback 
A card issuer can attempt a chargeback in certain circumstances when a cardholder has a 
dispute with a merchant  for example where goods never arrived or where goods are faulty 
or not as described. Before a chargeback can be initiated by a card issuer, like Santander, 
its generally expected that the cardholder has attempted to resolve matters with the 
merchant first. 
Chargebacks arent decided on the merits of the dispute between the cardholder and 
merchant, but rather theyre decided on the relevant card schemes rules. Chargeback isnt a 
legal right and theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this 
way. In this case, the guidelines are set by MasterCard and Santander have no power to 
change them. 
When there is a dispute about goods not being as described, generally the rules of the 
MasterCard chargeback scheme require the cardholder to provide sufficient detail through 
supporting documentation to enable all parties to understand the nature of the dispute. In 
this case, Ive seen the documentation Ms T provided to Santander and I think there was 
sufficient detail in the information Ms T provided that would have allowed all parties to 
understand the nature of the dispute. I dont think it was necessary for the terms and 
conditions to be provided because this isnt a set requirement and Ms T had set out in her dispute form that she could no longer obtain the terms and conditions. I think Ms T provided 
Santander with enough information for it to attempt a chargeback.
Having said this, when a chargeback isnt raised by a merchant but it should have been, this 
doesnt automatically mean that a chargeback would have been successful through the 
MasterCard process. As ultimately, it is the MasterCard scheme that decides whether the 
claim succeeds or not.
So, where a chargeback isnt raised by a merchant, we need to consider whether there 
would be a reasonable prospect of success, if the chargeback had been raised. 
The MasterCard scheme rules give limited examples of what it looks like when goods or 
services do not conform to their description. Ive thought about these when considering the 
circumstances of Ms Ts complaint.
In this case, Ms T said she realised the course wasnt for her shortly after she paid for it. It 
seems at this point D offered Ms T a refund of half the money she had paid. Ms T declined 
this and instead agreed to attempt the course. Ds correspondence to Ms T states that it 
provided detailed information to Ms T about how everything worked and she made an 
informed decision before agreeing to make the purchase. D also said Ms T had received the 
full course and that it had also said it would additionally give her personal coaching sessions 
and set up some of the technology for her, amongst other things, free of charge.
Having thought about this carefully, it seems likely the claim would have likely been 
defended, given the extensive submission by D. D say Ms T has received the full course and 
has been offered additional items free of charge. So D was willing and able to provide the 
course to Ms T. But it seems Ms T changed her mind soon after entering into the agreement 
and she told D that she was not the right candidate for the course. But this doesnt mean the 
course wasnt as described. 
So in light of all this, Im satisfied that even if Santander had raised a chargeback, it is 
unlikely that the chargeback would have been successful. I think its more likely than not that 
the chargeback would have been defended, as it seems the course was as described and 
its likely D would have successfully defended the chargeback. And so, this means I dont 
think Santander acted unfairly.
Did Santander act unfairly in any other way?
I think Santander requested information unnecessarily. I say this because at the point Ms T 
sent in the second bit of information, I think Santander had enough information to raise a 
chargeback. The chargeback rule concerning goods and services not as described doesnt 
require the further items Santander was requesting from Ms T. So I dont think it needed to 
chase Ms T for further information after she provided information the second time. However, 
it did and this resulted in Ms T having to provide even more information. 
The lack of information was also the reason why Santander said it didnt raise the 
chargeback, which Ive already said was incorrect. I think all of this unnecessarily 
inconvenienced Ms T and it caused her stress. And so, Santander should pay Ms T £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. I think this is fair and reasonable considering the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Ms T £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her.
Santander UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Ms T accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement  to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman