DRN-3192215
The complaint
Mr V complains that ReAssure Limited failed to carry out sufficient checks when transferring
his personal pension to the STM Fidecs Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme
(QROPS) registered in Gibraltar. His representative says he has subsequently lost all the
money he invested.
What happened
It appears that ReAssure has a history of contact from, or on behalf of, Mr V looking to
transfer his pension to another provider. Its not clear how this begun, but in April 2013
ReAssure wrote to Mr V to inform him it had been unable to make a transfer to the IMAC
Pension Scheme. The reason it gave is that it had contacted the trustees of the scheme for
further information to allay concerns about the risk of pension liberation  and that
information hadnt been forthcoming.
ReAssure enclosed a copy of The Pensions Regulator (TPR)s Scorpion leaflet and said:
This doesn't mean you can't transfer your pension to another pension scheme that is
registered with HMRC where we don't have concerns about pension liberation activity. If
you'd like to transfer your policy to such a scheme please call us on the number below.
Where can I find out more about pension liberation?
The accompanying leaflet from The Pensions Regulator tells you how to avoid becoming
a victim of pension liberation fraud. You can also find more information at reassure.co.uk
under News & Media, or by visiting The Pensions Advisory Service website at
pensionsadvisoryservice.org.uk.
You should always consider speaking with a Financial Adviser (FA) before making
decisions about your financial future. If you don't have an FA you can find one in your
area at unbiased.co.uk.
Here to help
If you've got any questions about your transfer request that aren't answered by this letter
or the above websites please call us on
ReAssure then sent an identical letter in September 2013 as a result of a request to transfer
Mr Vs pension to Clear Financial Solutions.
A company called IMAC appears to be associated with pension schemes that have
subsequently been suspected to be involved in pensions liberation, which also applies to the
Clear Financial Solutions scheme.
Subsequently in March 2014 Mr V wrote to ReAssure directly to request a transfer quote,
which was provided.
Mr V has told our investigator that in 2014 he had been looking to make some more money
with his pension and looked up some investment ideas online. He cant remember the name
of the company who advised him to use a QROPS, but he was promised a certain level of
growth which he thought was more than his ReAssure pension was getting and might enable
him to retire earlier. He was aged 46 at that time.
He did research STM Fidecs online, thought they had good ratings, and that they were
based in London. He recalls having one phone conversation (with whom he understood to
be STM Fidecs) to ask some questions. He was told that if there were any problems with the
transfer, ReAssure wouldnt let it go through. As a result, he thought ReAssure would be
checking the scheme he transferred to was legitimate. He wasnt offered any other
incentives to make the transfer.
ReAssures records show that on 7 July 2014, it received a phone call asking for a transfer
payment form. Although I cant be entirely sure from the records who phoned in, ReAssure
wrote out to Mr Vs home address on 10 July acknowledging your telephone call  so I think
its fair to conclude it was either a call from Mr V or he was aware of the call being made.
ReAssures letter enclosed the transfer payment form requested and repeated the part of its
wording where it suggests Mr V seek advice from a financial adviser. Again the TPR
Scorpion leaflet was enclosed.
A fortnight later on 24 July TPR relaunched its Scorpion website to alert transferring
schemes not just to pension liberation but also (according to the accompanying press
release) the risk of customers being scammed into moving their retirement savings into
unregulated high-risk or bogus investments that could result in them losing their entire
pension pot.
The new website read: We're asking all trustees to include our pension scams scorpion
leaflet in their annual benefit statements and when issuing transfer packs to members. If you
currently issue annual statements and transfer packs via third parties, you should consider if
they should now be sent direct to members.
After receiving the necessary documentation, on 22 October 2014 ReAssure transferred
about £40,500 by cheque to the QROPS.
Mr Vs representative says that ReAssure failed to warn him of the risks involved. Nor did it
comply with the Principles set out by the Financial Conduct Authority for the firms it regulates
to follow. It didnt ensure that hed taken independent advice.
ReAssure didnt uphold Mr Vs complaint. It says that the main check that was expected at
that time was to see that the QROPS was on HMRCs list (which it was)  and it wasnt
authorised to provide its own advice to Mr V as to what he should do. Ultimately Mr V had a
right to make the transfer, which it couldnt refuse.
As Mr Vs representative didnt agree, it referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman
Service where one of our investigators looked at it. She didnt uphold the complaint, in
summary because she thought ReAssure acted with reasonable care and skill in checking
that STM Fidecs was on HMRCs QROPS list. As it was, her view was that she would expect
the transfer to go ahead in a similar way to if the transfer had been to a UK scheme
registered with HMRC. As ReAssure was Mr Vs pension provider and not his adviser, there
was no requirement upon ReAssure itself to give Mr V advice.
Mr Vs representative didnt agree with the investigator. The main points it made were as
follows:
Mr V placed his trust in ReAssure to ensure the safety of his pension funds and at all
times act in his best interests
The overseas regulation of STM Fidecs left Mr V with little protection and exposed
him to high risk investments
It would have expected ReAssure to make more of a concerted effort to retain Mr Vscustom.
ReAssure would have been acting in Mr Vs best interests to warn him of the likely
impact of transferring without getting financial advice.
The investigator has since shared a copy of ReAssures letter of 7 July 2014, enclosing the
Scorpion insert, with Mr Vs representative.
My provisional decision of 17 November 2021
As agreement couldnt be reached, I first issued a provisional decision on this complaint to 
explain my findings. A copy of what I said follows:
What rules or guidance was ReAssure expected to follow at the time of the transfer?
As Mr Vs policy was a personal pension, ReAssure was regulated by the Financial Services
Authority (FSA, now FCA) in its operation. There have never been any specific FSA/FCA
rules on the checks transferring providers need to make before someone can transfer from a
personal pension.
The FSA Handbook set out Principles and Rules that firms must adhere to. Firms must
always apply the principles, even when specific rules and guidance from the FSA/FCA in a
particular area are absent or evolving  as was the case with pension liberation. The most
relevant principles (in the PRIN section of the rulebook) to this case were:
- Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
- Principle 3  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems
- Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat
them fairly.
A firm must also act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests
of its client, which is known as the clients best interests rule at COBS 2.1.1R in the
handbook.
The FSA had issued a number of warnings on its website in June and July 2011 about the
dangers of what it referred to as pension unlocking. This included that consumers might be
cold-called by unregulated advisers and encouraged to release cash from their pensions
ahead of retirement. At the time, the FSA said it was working closely with HMRC and TPR
(which regulated occupational pension schemes) to address this.
So ReAssure would have been aware that there was a problem in the industry by February
2013, when TPR published new guidance (the Scorpion campaign) for businesses to follow
to prevent pensions liberation. This wasnt guidance issued by FSA/FCA itself - so it wasnt
set out specifically by reference to firms PRIN or COBS obligations. But I consider it was
clearly relevant, from that date, to firms following the above principles and rules. It was also
endorsed by the FSA. So in my view it represented a step-change in how all businesses
were expected to approach pension transfers after that point.
There isnt any doubt here that ReAssure was aware of the need to follow this guidance, as
it not only sent a Scorpion insert to Mr V in July 2014 (in relation to the transfer that actually
proceeded)  but it also informed Mr V that it was blocking two earlier transfers. But very
shortly after ReAssure sent Mr V the insert in July 2014, the focus of the TPR campaign
shifted to include pension scams in general  for example, risky investment proposals that
could lose all the investors money  as well as its original purpose to highlight liberation of
pension funds by accessing them early.TPR had produced action packs for transferring providers to follow. A common theme
throughout was that transfers of funds overseas was a risk factor, both for pensions
liberation and scams in general. The action pack highlighted to pension providers a number
of warning signs, including:
 Being cold-called or approached out of the blue
 Money being transferred overseas, making it harder to recover
 Promises of incentives or access to the pension before age 55
 Members inadequately informed about the investments to be made
 Pressure being applied for the transfer to complete quickly
The action pack said transferring schemes should look out for these issues, as well as
receiving schemes that were newly registered or were suddenly involved in requests to
transfer multiple individuals. It also provided a checklist that could be used if you have
concerns [my emphasis]. So this left some ambiguity as to whether transferring schemes
were expected to conduct exhaustive enquiries of the customer in every case, or (and within
reason) being reactive to warning signs as they presented themselves. Clearly, in the case
of the two earlier attempted transfers of Mr Vs policy, warning signs were already apparent
in the nature of the schemes Mr V had been looking to transfer to  even though these
appear to have been UK registered occupational pension schemes.
Some of the ambiguity in the TPR guidance was resolved by the fact that TPR expected a
separate factsheet (the Scorpion insert), highlighting some of these issues, to be sent to the
customer at the same time as a transfer quotation. And we know that ReAssure sent that
insert at least three times in Mr Vs case. However I will first consider what (if any) warning
signs ReAssure ought reasonably to have noticed in Mr Vs request to transfer to the STM
Fidecs QROPS.
Was how ReAssure processed the transfer consistent with the rules and guidance?
STM Fidecs didnt write to ReAssure requesting Mr Vs benefits be transferred until
2 September 2014. It enclosed his completed transfer payment form, HMRC QROPS
transfer forms and a copy of the HMRC letter (from 2011) recognising the scheme.
Curiously, Mr V had signed the transfer payment form on 7 April 2014. So this was the set of
transfer forms ReAssure had sent to him at his request back in April, rather than the later set
issued in July 2014. So it suggests he had been looking to transfer his pension for some
considerable time.
The transfer payment form had then been countersigned by a Pensions Administration
Manager at STM Fidecs on 2 September after Mr V also signed the HMRC forms on
2 August. The transfer proceeds were to be paid to a NatWest account in Gibraltar in STM
Fidecs name.
ReAssure then responded directly to Mr Vs address in the UK, as STM Fidecs had
completed the wrong forms. It told Mr V that it required an Overseas Transfer Request Form
as well as a Detailed Declaration Form (because a test was required against the Lifetime
Allowance when Mr V transferred benefits overseas). It also needed further documents to
verify Mr Vs identity. A copy of its letter was sent to STM Fidecs.
Mr V signed the new form on 15 September 2014. At this point it appears ReAssure knew
that a valid transfer request had been made and an appropriate level of due diligence was
required into the receiving scheme. I think its overseas nature meant it was a possible
warning sign, particularly as the focus of TPRs campaign broadened to scams more widely
about three months before Mr Vs transfer was paid across. The warning sign was the
transferring funds overseas aspect.Not all of the questions on TPRs checklist would be relevant to a QROPS, but I can see that
STM Fidecs Pension Trustees Limited had been registered with the Gibraltar Financial
Services Commission since July 2002. So whilst any QROPS taken out in an individuals
name for the purposes of transferring will be recently established, the provider was not.
Clearly ReAssure did establish that the scheme was correctly recognised by the FCA on its
QROPS list  it had been since 2011 and in fact it is still on that list. So whilst the full extent
of ReAssures enquiries at the time is unclear, if it had probed further I think its unlikely it
would have been able to find any structural problem with the way the scheme itself was run.
For example, that its rules allowed access to benefits before the minimum age. If the rules
had said this, its unlikely the scheme would have been on the QROPS list for four years or
been regulated in Gibraltar for twelve. I think ReAssure was entitled to take this into account.
The purpose of many of the other questions are to establish whether the consumer had a
genuine reason to be transferring to that scheme, such as an employer connection  and if
the scheme was connected to unregulated investment providers. This meant contacting the
consumer to ask more about how they came to be investing, and what they understood
about the investment.
Given this was a QROPS, there was no particular reason to expect the investments being
made to be regulated in the UK (although the term regulated isnt defined in the guidance,
and its not clear if the investments were regulated in another EU jurisdiction). Either way,
recourse to compensation arrangements may have been more difficult in other jurisdictions.
But what all of this comes back to is the most compelling question in Mr Vs case: why he
was transferring his UK pension to a QROPS when evidently he didnt live or work in
Gibraltar (or another European country). The action pack concluded by saying:
Speak to the member at risk  over the phone, via email or letter. It could help you
establish answers to more of the questions in the checklist, where youve been unable to
answer them with the information you have available.
Its also problematic in my view that ReAssure had blocked two earlier transfers. That might
have suggested to ReAssure that Mr V was possibly susceptible to third parties encouraging
him to transfer his pension  and therefore that he could be at risk of investment scams as
much as liberation. Taking all of these points together, Im persuaded in the particular
circumstances of this complaint that ReAssure ought to have engaged further with Mr V 
either by phone or letter  in a similar way to how it had intervened in his other transfers.
This would also have been consistent with ReAssures wider regulatory obligations under
COBS and PRIN.
Evidently, ReAssure didnt do this. In order to decide whether it would have made a
difference, I first need to consider how Mr V reacted to the factsheet and other warnings
ReAssure did send him.
The Scorpion insert
Much of the two-page insert focuses on a warning about offers to cash in a pension early
and the tax bill that could result. Mr Vs recollections of what he discussed with an adviser
and/or STM Fidecs indicate that in 2014, he was going to be making an investment for later
on in retirement. This doesnt indicate the warnings about pension liberation  whilst they
might have applied to his earlier transfers  were as much of an issue for this transfer. Mr V
also hadnt been offered an incentive, and his testimony doesnt indicate he was dealing with
a pushy adviser who was rushing him.
The insert also warns that all advisers should be registered with the FCA, and to speak to anadviser that is not associated with the proposal for unbiased advice. It appears these
prompts didnt encourage Mr V to take any further action, and its possible to see why. He
had already researched the companys background online himself  something the insert
was also telling him to do. And as hes said he had initiated contact with the adviser himself,
he may not have thought the warnings about cold-calling applied to him.
Unlike the action pack, the insert itself didnt include a warning about making investments
overseas (I expect because having some investments overseas wouldnt necessarily be a
reliable indication of a scam). And when it sent Mr V the insert for the third time ReAssure
didnt yet know Mr V was intending to transfer to a QROPS. So what I need to weigh up here
is whether Mr Vs decision not to take any further action following the Scorpion insert has
any bearing on what might have happened if ReAssure had intervened further when it did
know he was transferring to a QROPS.
Would further intervention by ReAssure have made a difference?
Many of Mr Vs representatives points are premised on ReAssure being in a position to
ensure the suitability of what Mr V was proposing to invest in, or somehow block the transfer
unless he took regulated advice. ReAssure was in a position to do neither of these things
and I think thats a fundamental misunderstanding on Mr Vs representatives part.
ReAssure wasnt engaged by Mr V to give investment advice, and the people at ReAssure
Mr V dealt with wouldnt have been authorised to give such advice. Anything that involved
fact finding about Mr Vs financial circumstances, including his attitude to risk, or comparing
the charges of the new scheme with the existing one, are things a competent adviser would
have done  but which were not ReAssures role here. ReAssure would have to respect that
Mr V had a statutory right to transfer, even to a QROPS, if it met the criteria to be a transfer
recognised under HMRC rules.
The most I therefore consider ReAssure could reasonably do is highlight to Mr V that a
transfer to a QROPS was unusual for a UK resident. And that transferring money overseas 
when he didnt have a need to do this  suggested that he could be becoming the victim of a
scam. It could then have warned him that he should seek independent, regulated advice.
The Scorpion insert, which was sent to Mr V on three occasions, did point out the
importance of speaking to a regulated adviser  and one who was not associated with the
investment proposal. ReAssures own letters which were sent with every Scorpion insert also
gave details of a website Mr V could use to obtain independent advice.
I think the overarching message Mr V would have got from the unusual level of warnings
ReAssure had been issuing to him over the years was that the actions he took on repeated
occasions were bringing him into contact with individuals who may put his pension at risk. At
first, this was the risk of liberation, which I accept Mr V did not believe he was doing with this
transfer. But I cant fairly say Mr V could have taken much comfort from ReAssures failure to
block it, when it had blocked previous transfers.
Not all issues, such as potentially poor investment advice Mr V might have received, would
show up to the same degree in the checks the transferring scheme carries out. Thats why
ReAssure still continued to send the same factsheet Mr V received on previous occasions,
and recommend that he seek independent advice in its letter.
Mr Vs recollections dont suggest he sought a second opinion from another adviser, but that
doesnt mean he did nothing at all. I note that he had done his own research into STM
Fidecs, and I think he might potentially have been concerned to do this because of the
number of warnings hed been given previously. It wasnt for ReAssure to dictate to Mr V
what form that research should take. And whilst I note Mr V gained the impression STMFidecs had a presence in London, he also signed documents indicating the scheme itself
was established overseas.
Based on what Mr V said in the call with our investigator, which Ive listened to, I think if
ReAssure had phoned or written to Mr V to ask him more about his intentions for this
transfer, he would have come across as confident in what he was doing. Neither Mr V nor
his representative have demonstrated in my view why Mr V wouldnt have been prepared to
go ahead.
In particular Im surprised that no evidence of what Mr Vs QROPS specifically invested in
has been given to this service, considering that it continues to operate in a regulated
jurisdiction. Obtaining this evidence would in my view be a straightforward matter for Mr Vs
representative, and I would expect it to have done this if its intention is to persuade me that
Mr V has made an inappropriate investment that ReAssures actions would have convinced
him not to make.
I have taken into account all the evidence we do have to consider, including what Mr V has
told us and the fact that Mr V had been undeterred from transferring his pension after two
previous refusals by ReAssure to do. Having done this, on balance I think it more likely that
he was in a position at the time to acknowledge to ReAssure that whilst there were risks
involved, he wanted to go ahead. As there wasnt an issue with STM Fidecs as a provider on
this occasion, so ReAssure couldnt have blocked this transfer, I think it would then have
gone ahead.
I appreciate my decision will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr V. But I think his
complaint has resulted from the risks coming to light of an investment that he was intent on
making within the STM Fidecs QROPS. So even if ReAssure could have prompted Mr V to
think more carefully about what he was doing, on balance Im satisfied he would still have
proceeded to transfer his pension and make his investment. As Ive noted above, it remains
unclear what losses Mr V has suffered in his QROPS.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr Vs representative said Mr V had no further comments to make, but in view of my 
observations about the losses within the QROPS they attached further evidence. This shows 
that of the £40,500 approx the QROPS received, a fee was paid to STM and a 3% fee to an 
adviser. Only 90% of the balance was invested in order to leave 5 years worth for STMs 
fees. 
This investment was in a CFS Mutual bond within the QROPS. An initial and management 
charge were taken, leaving £33,706 invested as of 17 November 2014. CFS Mutual was a 
London-based investment provider (Cornerstone Friendly Society) which until May 2021 was 
regulated by the FCA and PRA in the UK.
There is also a letter of advice from Caledonia Investments which (despite its name 
appearing to target British investors) is (or was) a Spanish registered firm of advisers. Its 
website doesnt appear to have been active since 2017. The letter explains that the CFS 
Mutual bond has a sliding scale of exit charges ranging from 10% in year 1 to nil by year 6. 
Whilst I do not know the full details this can be typical of an arrangement that may have paid 
a substantial upfront commission to an intermediary, that may be being recouped through 
the ongoing charges  hence why there is a penalty to leave the arrangement.
ReAssure had no further comments to make following the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst neither party raised any further points for me to consider, the evidence Mr Vs 
representative has provided shows that he was dealing with a firm of advisers from an 
establishment in Spain. They recommended the transfer from ReAssure to the STM 
QROPS. 
I said in my provisional decision that I thought Mr V would have come across as confident in 
what he was doing, if ReAssure had phoned or written to him at the time. I pointed out that 
he was undeterred by the warning in the Scorpion insert from speaking to another adviser 
who wasnt associated with the transfer proposal. It seems to me that Mr V was satisfied with 
the recommendations hed received from the Spanish firm.
Its unclear whether that firm was regulated by the Spanish authorities, but evidently both the 
QROPS provider and the investment bond were regulated in Gibraltar and the UK, 
respectively. So I dont think its a particularly surprising conclusion to reach that Mr V was 
willing to invest on that basis. Caledonia Investments letter describes the bond as a pooled 
investment in shares, property, fixed interest and cash. 
Unfortunately it appears that by 2015 Cornerstone Friendly Society was alleged to have 
been caught up in suspected pension liberation activity involving other third parties, 
according to press reports. Im not sure if Mr V was directly affected by the issues reported 
on at that time, nor does it mean anything like this would have been apparent to ReAssure 
when Mr V transferred. If ReAssure had spoken to Mr V and hed mentioned their name, 
CFS would have shown up on the FCA register at that time  where they remained 
authorised until May 2021.
What may well have affected Mr V is that these issues have led to CFS defaulting to the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). If Mr V was still invested when the firm 
collapsed, he may already have heard from the FSCS. Otherwise it should be a 
straightforward matter for Mr V or his representative to find out from STM Fidecs what the 
last reported value of the bond was, and approach FSCS for compensation.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Vs complaint against ReAssure Limited and make no award, for the 
reasons I give above and in my provisional decision. I suggest Mr Vs representative 
explores whether there is or has been any possibility of compensation from the FSCS in 
respect of the bond within his QROPS.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman