DRN-2188331
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that One Insurance Limited turned down her claim under her accidental 
damage policy.
What happened
Mrs H contacted One Insurance to make a claim for accidental damage when she found 
cracking in her home affecting the party wall between her property and her neighbours, as 
well as other parts of her home. Mrs H said that the damage was caused by work being 
carried out by a builder in her neighbours home. One Insurance turned down the claim 
because it said it had been caused by a third party not living at the property, which was 
specifically excluded under the policy.
Mrs H complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that One 
Insurances definition of a third party was so broad that it could cover almost any situation 
not involving Mrs H herself. He thought that the broad nature of the exclusion made it too 
restrictive to be fair and reasonable. He said One Insurance should settle the claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms.
As One Insurance did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 20 August 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was not planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms of the policy. For Buildings- Accidental Damage it said
What is Included?
We will cover any unexpected and unintended damage to your building caused by 
something sudden and external.
The policy also lists some exclusions, including damage resulting from:

Any third party who does not live in the property.
I note that the policy gave a very broad definition of what was covered by accidental 
damage. Looking at how Mrs H described the damage, I can understand why Mrs H had an 
expectation that her claim would be accepted as it seems to have been unexpected, 
unintended, sudden and external.
When Mrs H tried to make a claim, it was turned down on the basis of the exclusion relating 
to damage caused by a third party. Given that the damage was caused by a builder working 
in a neighbours home, I agree that was a third party and that One Insurance turned down 
the claim in line with its terms and conditions. So, the question is whether that was fair and 
reasonable. 
When One Insurance explained to our investigator why it didnt accept his findings, it said It 
is a common term within the industry that any damage caused by a third party not residing in 
the property is excluded. Under Mrs Hs circumstances we would expect her to register a 
claim against the builders in question who have caused the damage.
Ive thought about this carefully. Having read the policy, I think that its clear what is and isnt 
included. The policy clearly states that it doesnt cover damage that is caused by a third 
party, which is my understanding of how the damage was caused in this case. Ive also 
thought about whether the third party definition is so broad that it makes the policy too 
restrictive. I dont think that it is. Such exclusions are common in insurance policies and I 
dont consider the wording to be particularly unusual or unreasonable.
Given the circumstances in which this damage happened, and despite my sympathy for Mrs 
Hs situation, Im currently of the view that it isnt covered under the terms of the accidental 
damage policy. So, I think that One Insurance acted reasonably in turning down the claim 
and that it doesnt need to do anything further. 
I understand that Mrs H has a legal expenses policy as part of her insurance, which may be 
a way to pursue her claim for the loss.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 19 September 2020. Both parties responded before that date.
One Insurance didnt provide any further comment.
Mrs H didnt accept the decision and provided details of why she thought the claim should be 
covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, in line with my provisional 
decision. As part of this I considered the comments made by Mrs H, which related to 
standard buildings insurance rather than an accidental damage policy. However, it didnt 
cause me to change my previous view that the accidental damage policy doesnt cover the 
actions of a third party.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman