DRN-4453105
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way Santander UK Plc dealt with a chargeback claim he made.
Background
I recently issued my provisional conclusions setting out the events leading up to this 
complaint and how I thought the dispute should be resolved. Ive reproduced my provisional 
findings below, which form part of this final decision.
What happened
Mr R used his Santander debit card to pay for a mobile phone that his then partner P 
ordered with a third party online retailer A. Mr R subsequently contacted Santander to say 
that he hadnt received the phone, and that As courier had instead delivered an empty box. 
He sent the bank photos in support of his claim, and said he could also supply a witness 
statement from his neighbour who was present at the delivery.
On 25 May 2022, Santander raised a claim on Mr Rs behalf through the card scheme 
chargeback process, applying a temporary credit to his account. However, the claim was 
defended by A, who supplied its own evidence in relation to the delivery. Santander 
redebited Mr Rs account on 29 August 2022, telling him that it couldnt take his claim 
further.
Mr R was unhappy with this and complained. He was unhappy that Santander hadnt sought 
further evidence from him to pursue the claim or provided a copy of As evidence. In 
response Santander told Mr R it wasnt always possible to do so, but that the decision to 
decline the claim had been taken at the chargeback arbitration stage. It said it hadnt made 
any error in its handling of the claim and didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She felt it was reasonable 
for Santander to have accepted the evidence A had supplied  which included photos of the 
properly packaged parcel on Mr Rs doorstep. The investigator didnt think that any further 
evidence Mr R might have submitted had he been given the opportunity to do so would have 
led to a different claim outcome.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators conclusions and has asked for this review.
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr R feels Santander didnt handle his claim fairly. Generally, where a 
chargeback is defended by a merchant, as here, its reasonable to expect that the card 
issuer will inform the cardholder in a timely way. Theres nothing in the card scheme rules 
that obliged Santander to share As submissions with Mr R, but theres nothing to prevent 
that either. As a matter of good practice, I would at least have expected Santander to keep 
Mr R informed about the progress of his claim, which includes telling him that A had 
responded.
Santander didnt do so until 29 August, despite the fact that As submission is dated 1 July, 
nearly two months before. And when Santander did contact Mr R, it was to tell him that the 
chargeback process was at an end. It doesnt strike me as entirely fair to delay notification in 
this way, particularly given the strict timescales that apply in the card scheme rules. I can 
see that it would have been distressing for Mr R to discover the outcome of his claim without 
the opportunity to make further submissions.
That doesnt mean the outcome would have been different had Santander contacted Mr R 
sooner. The evidence A supplied  which has now been shared with Mr R  isnt absolutely 
legible, but theres enough in it to suggest that a valid defence was made to the claim. And a 
card issuer doesnt automatically adopt liability to a card holder for the value of a chargeback 
claim simply because it could have done a better job of communicating. Fundamentally, the 
claim for non-receipt of goods is against A. In my view the evidence is such that that claim is 
more appropriately resolved between Mr R, P and A, rather than by Santander.
Nevertheless, I do think the bank should recognise that its handling of the claim could have 
been better, and that Mr R was caused some distress and inconvenience as a result. While I 
dont consider it appropriate for the bank to address any loss alleged by Mr R, Im minded to 
require it to pay him £150 compensation in this respect.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
Response to my provisional findings
Santander accepted my provisional findings. But Mr R did not. He maintained that the 
evidence hed provided (and was willing to provide via his neighbour) ought to be enough for 
the chargeback dispute to be resolved in his favour. He questioned the evidence provided by 
A as being insufficient. And he said Santanders failure to give him the right of appeal or 
provide As submissions at an earlier stage meant I should find in his favour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr R said in response to my provisional decision. It doesnt really 
amount to anything that he hasnt already said, or that I didnt take into account in my 
provisional decision. I see no reason to change my provisional findings and so I adopt them 
in full in this final decision.
For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think the conflict of evidence between Mr R and 
A is best resolved by making Santander liable for the loss Mr R says he suffered. That 
dispute is in my view something that a court might be better placed to determine, involving 
as it does allegations against parties who arent participants in this dispute but may be in a 
position to adduce evidence that speaks to the merits of the mobile phone dispute, rather 
than an act or omission by Santander in its handling of Mr Rs claim.
As Ive said, I think the bank could have done a better job of corresponding with Mr R in 
respect of the dispute. Im satisfied that my proposed award of £150 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience this caused Mr R is appropriate in all the circumstances.My final decision
My final decision is that to settle Mr Rs complaint, Santander UK Plc must pay Mr R £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman