DRN-3336310
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt fully settled two cancellation 
claims they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K have travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
Mr and Mrs K had two holidays booked. They were due to travel to a country Ill call T in 
January 2020. And they were due to take their family on holiday to a country Ill call S in July 
2020. Theyd paid a deposit of £150 per person for each of their travelling party to their 
accommodation provider.
Unfortunately, one of Mr and Mrs Ks family members was diagnosed with a serious illness 
and so Mr and Mrs K had to cancel both holidays. They made a claim on their travel 
insurance policy for the cancellation costs theyd incurred.
Aviva accepted and partly settled both claims. It ultimately settled Mr and Mrs Ks claim for 
the cost of their accommodation in T. It said it would consider their unused flight costs on 
provision of a cancellation invoice from their airline, which showed that their costs hadnt 
been refunded. Aviva didnt agree to pay Mr and Mrs Ks full deposit costs for the second 
holiday  it simply settled the deposit costs which related to Mr and Mrs K alone. 
Mr and Mrs K werent happy with Avivas decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said theyd tried to get a cancellation invoice from the airline but hadnt had 
a response. They also didnt think Aviva had fully settled their accommodation costs in 
relation to the first claim. And they told us that theyd paid for the deposits to S as a gift. 
They said theyd intended to pay the full costs of the family holiday to celebrate a special 
occasion. So they felt it would be fair for Aviva to settle the full deposit claim.
Our investigator thought Aviva had treated Mr and Mrs K fairly. She felt that the policy terms 
made it clear that before it would settle cancellation claims, Aviva required evidence from a 
travel provider that a policyholder hadnt received a refund of their costs. So she thought itd 
been fair for Aviva to decline to settle Mr and Mrs Ks flight costs until itd had sight of such a 
confirmation.
The investigator accepted that Mr and Mrs K had paid the deposit costs for the trip to S and 
had intended to pay for the full trip. But she noted that the policy stated Aviva would only 
cover a policyholders own costs. So she felt itd been fair for Aviva to limit its settlement for 
this claim to Mr and Mrs Ks personal deposit costs alone.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed. They said the outcome felt all wrong and that they believed many 
people would also believe that they were covered for whatever eventualities might happen. 
They felt that it was unfair for Aviva to hide behind the policy wording, as they questioned 
how their family could claim for something they hadnt paid for. They didnt think the 
investigator had taken the fair route when assessing their complaint.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. I noticed that Aviva hadnt fully settled Mr and 
Mrs Ks claim for their accommodation in T. Aviva has now recalculated the settlement for 
this part of the first claim and paid Mr and Mrs K the shortfall balance of £180, together with 
interest at an annual rate of 8% simple to recognise the time they were without the money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs K, I think Aviva has now settled 
their claims fairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of the policy and the circumstances of the claim to decide whether 
Aviva treated Mr and Mrs K fairly.
First, Im sorry to hear about the circumstances which gave rise to Mr and Mrs Ks claims. I 
dont doubt what a worrying and upsetting time this mustve been for them both and for their 
family. I do hope their family member has made a good recovery.
As Mr and Mrs Ks complaint concerns two claims, for ease of reading, Ive considered each 
separately. Theres no dispute though that Aviva accepted both claims were valid under the 
cancellation section of the policy and so I havent looked specifically at this point.  
The trip to T
The cancellation section of the policy says that Aviva will pay for a policyholders unused 
travel and accommodation (amongst other) costs which they cant get back. Most, if not all, 
travel insurers will only settle claims for a policyholders irrecoverable costs.
In this case, Aviva accepted that the costs of Mr and Mrs Ks villa were non-refundable and it 
agreed to settle these. I checked its calculation and as I explained, I identified a shortfall in 
the settlement sum. And Im satisfied that by paying Mr and Mrs K this shortfall amount of 
£180, together with interest of 8%, Aviva has now fully and fairly settled Mr and Mrs Ks 
claim for their accommodation costs.
Mr and Mrs K have also claimed for their flight tickets  a cost of broadly £700. Aviva hasnt 
declined to pay these costs  its explained to Mr and Mrs K that it needs to see a 
confirmation from the airline that it hasnt refunded Mr and Mrs Ks fare costs. Thats so it 
can be satisfied that Mr and Mrs K havent already recovered these costs. As Ive set out 
above, the contract terms say that Aviva only covers costs which a policyholder cant get 
back.
The cancellation section of the policy also includes special conditions which apply to 
cancellation claims. One of these says:
All claims must be supported by documentary evidence that you have been unable to obtain 
a refund from the Travel and /or accommodation provider.
I think then that the totality of the contract terms make it clear Aviva requires documentary 
evidence from a policyholders travel provider that no refund has been paid. 
Mr and Mrs K have provided Aviva with evidence of their attempts to get in touch with the airline, together with screenshots showing they never checked-in. I appreciate that they 
havent yet been able to get a response in writing which confirms that no refund has been 
made. So I do understand how frustrated they must feel. But I also note that Aviva told Mr 
and Mrs K that there was no time limit on them being able to send in this information to it and 
that their claim would remain open. And on this basis, I think its reasonable for Aviva to 
require sight of evidence from the airline that it didnt refund the costs of Mr and Mrs Ks 
January 2020 flight before it settles this cost. If Mr and Mrs K are able to obtain this 
information, they should send it onto Aviva for it to consider.
The trip to S
Its clear that Mr and Mrs K intended to pay for a celebration holiday for their family. And I 
dont doubt their testimony that they paid the full deposit costs for their hotel. I can 
understand how disappointing it mustve been when Aviva only settled the costs of their own 
deposits and excluded the deposits for the other seven members of their family. So again, 
Ive looked carefully at the relevant policy terms and conditions.
Page 8 of the policy provides a Table of Benefits which sets out a brief overview of cover. 
Under the cancellation section it says:
What are the main features and benefits?
Refund of your own personal travel and accommodation costs that you cannot get back.
Page 23 sets out the full cancellation cover. This says:
We will pay for costs that each insured person has paid, and cannot get back, or which 
legally have to be paid for their own personal travel and accommodationif you have to 
unavoidably cancel your trip for one of the reasons below.
In my view, the policy terms make it sufficiently clear that Aviva will only pay a policyholders 
own travel costs. I dont think I could reasonably interpret them in such a way as to find that 
Mr and Mrs Ks family members deposit costs should also be met. 
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ks position, because I appreciate theyve been left out of 
pocket for the remainder of the deposit they paid. But I dont find that Aviva acted unfairly 
when it calculated the settlement due to Mr and Mrs K for their trip to S. This means that Im 
satisfied that Aviva has now settled this claim fairly.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Aviva has now settled Mr and Mrs 
Ks claims fairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman