DRN-3265597
The complaint
Miss R complains Link Financial Outsourcing Limited arent writing off a debt she owes them 
when theres no reasonable prospect of her ever repaying it.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision, setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision. 
Miss R says she became disabled within the last five years and was diagnosed with an 
incurable condition at the time. She said shes been in financial difficulties for over ten years 
 and has sent Link over ten years worth of financial income and expenditure forms which 
all show her situation has got worse not better over time. She said shes also sent them 
medical information which confirms shes got no reasonable prospect of ever working again.
Miss R says shes told Links Specialist Support Team (SST) would help her, but says shes 
never had any support that meets her needs. Shes also unhappy with Links letters, saying 
she needs to call them, as she cant do that. Shes also said she cant complete any more 
income and expenditure forms, due to her health issues  and when she has completed 
them in the past, with Link saying theyd consider writing off her debt, they havent. Miss R is 
unhappy with this because of the impact the debt is having on her, and also says she cant 
understand why another lender has written off her debt, and Link wont.
Ive been deliberately vague about when Miss R was diagnosed, and the specifics of her 
health, to protect her anonymity when this decision is published.
Link said theyd received similar complaints from Miss R previously, and theyd explained 
theyre not obliged to write-off debts, but her circumstances were taken into account  and 
she was signposted to the SST. Link added Miss R does owe the balance, and theyre 
willing to work with her to develop an affordable repayment plan. They also said theyd 
explained theyd attempted to contact her since her initial write-off request but require an up 
to date statement before moving forward. 
Link said the SST had previously placed holds on her account, and they were prepared to 
consider writing off the debt if a new income and expenditure form is completed. So, 
because of that, they didnt uphold her complaint.
Miss R asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, and found overall Link 
had acted fairly in their dealings with Miss R.
She strongly disagreed. She said shed been discriminated against, and lenders must write 
off a debt if theres no reasonable prospect of the borrower repaying it. Miss R asks why her 
circumstances dont constitute a write off situation and says no one ever answers that 
question.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain lenders arent required to write off a debt if theres no 
reasonable prospect of the borrower repaying it. But, for reasons Ill go on to explain, I think 
Link should write off Miss Rs debt due to her circumstances.
Normally, Id say Link havent acted unreasonably in asking for the income and expenditure 
form to be completed. This gives them a clear picture of someones circumstances and helps 
them to know what they can and cant afford. Although Miss R has said shes returned ten 
years worth of these, Link appear to only have two.
The first of those is dated 26 February 2017. This shows she has a total income of £77.81, 
total expenditure of £4,991.62  and per month has £4,913.81 less than she needs to live 
on.
The second form is dated 5 March 2018. This shows she has a total income of £278.92, total 
expenditure of £2,201.06  and per month has £1,922.14 less than she needs to live on.
In both forms, shes mentioned mortgage arrears. So, in both forms Link do have on file, 
shes quite significantly in debit each month  strongly suggesting she cant afford the debt  
and with a priority debt in place as well (her mortgage). And, if she were to keep up the 
repayments of £1 a month shes been making, itd take over 670 years to pay off the debt. I 
cant see in their responses to Miss R theyve clearly explained why she doesnt meet their 
criteria for a write off  something I can see has caused Miss R real frustration.
Miss R has been clear and consistent in saying she has a long-term incurable condition, and 
that tasks get more difficult over time. Shes also said shes no longer able to complete 
income and expenditure forms because her memory isnt what it used to be. From what I can 
see, her circumstances changed in June 2020 when she was awarded a payment from the 
Government due to her disability  confirmed in a summary dated March 2021.
This form, which Link provided to our service, says Miss R cant verbally communicate, read 
or make any budgeting decisions without help. As Miss R completing an income and 
expenditure form would likely require all of these factors, I think this is important information 
to factor in.
In addition, I can see theres medical evidence recorded on file which says, I confirm that in 
my professional opinion, due to their disabilityMissRis permanently unfit to actively 
seek or carry out any type of paid employment in their lifetime.
So, Link have been provided with evidence to show Miss R is in debt, doesnt have enough 
to live on month to month, isnt able to complete any new income and expenditure forms 
unaided  and theres medical evidence to say shell never work again. 
I think taking all of that into account, plus how long itd take to clear the debt at the current 
rate, the fairest thing to do is write off the debt. When doing so, Link will need to update the 
relevant credit reference agencies to show the debt has been partially settled  as Miss R 
has made payments to the debt.
Miss R says she feels Link have discriminated against her given the problems shes 
experienced. I can understand why Miss R feels this way but having looked at all the 
evidence I dont think Link have done so. I hope it helps knowing someone independent and 
impartial has looked into her concerns. Despite this, I do think theyve not handled things as well as Id expect.  Link were told about 
Miss Rs change of circumstances in June 2021, and it seems rather than critically assessing 
how her circumstances had changed, they just said they still needed an income and 
expenditure form  despite all the evidence they held at that time. So, I think itd be fair for 
them to also pay Miss R £200 compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss R replied, and said she had nothing further to add, and agreed with my decision.
Link didnt provide a substantive reply by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss R accepted my decision, and Link didnt provide me with any further information to 
consider, I still think Miss Rs debt should be written off, the credit reference agencies 
updated  and £200 compensation to be paid.
Putting things right
I require Link to:
Write off Miss Rs debt
Record the debt as partially settled with the credit reference agencies
Pay Miss R £200 compensation
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Link Financial Outsourcing Limited to carry out the 
actions in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman