DRN-3946879
The complaint
Mr N complains that Nationwide Building Society miscounted his cash deposit in branch. 
What happened
Mr N went into a Nationwide branch to deposit some cash. He initially thought this was 
£3,740, but when it was counted in branch, he was told it was £3,640. He says that he then 
checked his online banking and found only £3,340 had been deposited into his account. 
When he contacted the branch, they explained it had been miscounted initially and £3,340 
was the correct amount. 
Nationwide said that they reviewed the CCTV for the transaction and could see that after Mr 
N left the branch, the cashier recounted the amount and it can be seen on her face that she 
realises she initially miscounted. They said a second cashier then recounted the money and 
agreed the amount was actually £3,340. They say they attempted to call Mr N but could not 
get through, however he called back later and he initially accepted the situation, but asked to 
see the CCTV footage which was sent to him. Nationwide also explained the cashiers till as 
a whole was recounted and came back correct. And this was repeated the following 
morning. Because of this, Nationwide are satisfied £3,340 is the correct amount. 
Mr N referred the complaint to our service. Our Investigator looked into it and issued a view 
explaining that while there may have been some confusion as to whether a counting 
machine had been used or not, it was confirmed one had been used. And that having 
reviewed the evidence available, they thought it was more likely Nationwide had not made 
an error when it said the final amount was £3,340. 
Mr N disagreed with this as he felt if a counting machine was used, the initial count could not 
have been incorrect. He therefore felt it was possible that the cashier had taken some of the 
funds.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think its more likely the figure of £3,340 is correct, so I dont think 
Nationwide needs to take any further action to remedy the complaint. Ill explain why in more 
detail. 
Ill firstly set out what Ive relied on, as not all the evidence is still available. As this occurred 
in a branch, and branches dont often keep documentation for extended periods of time, I 
dont think this is unreasonable. While I havent seen the actual footage from the CCTV, I 
have read a description of what it showed. Ive also seen the investigation notes from 
Nationwide, contact notes from conversations with Mr N as well as Mr Ns testimony. Ive 
considered all of this to decide what I think is most likely in the circumstances. 
Ive firstly considered the use of the cash counter. In a later contact note with Mr N, he says 
that he was told one had not been used when he deposited the funds. However, it is unclear 
where he has gotten this information from. Having reviewed the evidence available, I can 
see that the description of the CCTV footage says a cash counter was used, the final 
response letter also confirms one was used and the initial phone call from Nationwide to Mr 
N confirms a cash counter was used. So, Im satisfied that its more likely a cash counter 
was used. 
Each piece of evidence that confirms a cash counter was used, also confirms that the 
cashier put it on the incorrect settings when counting the cash, which is what led to the 
incorrect figure in the first place. On balance, this explanation seems reasonable and has 
consistently been given as the reason for the incorrect figure throughout the investigation. 
Following the incorrect count, Nationwide has confirmed the cash was counted by the 
original cashier as well as a second one. The whole till was recounted as well as the back 
safe and front tills again. And this was repeated again the following morning. I have no 
reason to doubt what Nationwide has told me and Im satisfied the branch staff have made 
reasonable checks to make sure the end figure is correct. And having carefully reviewed 
everything, I think its more likely it is correct.
So, on balance, I think its more likely the initial error was quickly rectified and that the figure 
of £3,340 is correct. I hope this goes some way to put Mr Ns mind at ease about the 
situation.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman