DRN-2322396
The complaint
Mrs Ps complaint is that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt respond to her questions about how to 
make a repayment after her account was frozen. She says that a default was then recorded 
on her credit file without any notification. She wants to be told how to repay her overdraft and 
for the default to be removed from her credit file. 
What happened
Mrs P says that she received a text message on 29 August 2019 saying that her account 
would be frozen. She says she was unbale to make a payment online as her internet 
banking had been shut down. She said that she couldnt visit a branch at this time due to an 
injury and although she tried to call Lloyds the advisers werent able to provide the service 
required to resolve the issue.
Mrs P says that her account was then defaulted without any notification. She says she is 
willing to repay the amount outstanding if the default is removed from her credit file.
Lloyds says that on 29 August 2019, Mrs P was sent a text message saying that it was 
withdrawing her banking facilities and her account would be closed in 60 days. It sent a letter 
to confirm this and to say the outstanding balance of just over £1,000 needed to be repaid. 
A letter dated 27 September 2019 was sent which included payment options and support 
available. A formal demand letter was then sent dated 22 October 2019. It says that Mrs P 
didnt call it until 7 November and that this call was cut off when it was trying to transfer 
Mrs P to the correct department. The call back wasnt successful. Mrs P then called again on 
20 January 2020 but again this call was disconnected and the returned call unsuccessful. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that Mrs P should have been 
reasonably aware of the state of her account and the risk of default. He noted the letters that 
had been sent and that Mrs P was given time to make a payment before her account was 
closed. He didnt think that Mrs P had been treated unfairly by Lloyds and so didnt require it 
to take any further action.
Mrs P didnt accept our investigators view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about Mrs Ps personal account and having considered the evidence, I 
agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs P received a text message on 29 August about her banking facilities being 
withdrawn and saying that her account would be closed in 60 days. I understand she 
was also sent a letter with this information. I havent seen a copy of the notice given 
but I have looked at Lloyds system notes from 29 August and these refer to facilities 
being withdrawn and an application to close the account. Lloyds will make a 
commercial decision about whether it wishes to continue to provide services to a 
customer and this isnt for me to comment on. As Lloyds provided the notice required 
under the account terms and conditions, I do not find I can say it has acted 
incorrectly regarding the closure of Mrs Ps account.
In the notification of account closure, I understand that it explained the outstanding 
balance on the account would need to be paid and that this would need to happen in 
branch. Mrs P has also said that she was aware that she didnt have access to 
internet banking, and she couldnt make a payment by telephone. I am sorry to hear 
that Mrs P had suffered an injury that meant she wasnt able to visit a branch. 
However, given the information provided I think it reasonable that Mrs P would have 
contacted Lloyds to explain her situation if she couldnt make a branch payment. As 
she didnt do this I cant say that Lloyds did anything wrong by taking further action 
when the notice period expired at end October 2019.
Lloyds wrote to Mrs P on 22 October with a formal demand for payment of the 
amount outstanding on her account by 5 November 2019. The letter provided 
alternative ways to make payment, which I accept may have been unhelpful as only 
branch payment was an option to Mrs P. The letter said that Mrs P could contact it 
and I think it would have been reasonable that Mrs P would have called Lloyds at this 
time. Mrs P didnt contact Lloyds before 5 November. The letter set out what action 
could be taken if payment wasnt made, including a default being registered. 
Therefore, I think Mrs P was made aware of the situation on her account and the 
actions that could be taken if she didnt make the required repayment. 
Mrs P called Lloyds on 7 November. This was after the two months notice period 
and after the deadline in the formal demand notice. The call was disconnected and 
so a call back was attempted to advise her to speak to the relevant team about her 
account. Unfortunately, the call back was unsuccessful. I also note Mrs P sent a 
letter dated 7 November asking how to make payment. I understand she didnt get a 
response to this but as a return call was attempted on 7 November I find it 
reasonable that had Mrs P not been able to make the payment in branch she should 
have attempted further contact with Lloyds to see if an alternative solution could be 
found.
An account closure letter was sent to Mrs P dated 28 November 2019 again setting 
out the payment that was needed and providing a timeframe for this to be made. I 
have nothing to show that Mrs P took any action to make the payment and no contact 
was made until after the deadline. Had Mrs P contacted Lloyds at this time, a solution 
to the payment issue could have been discussed and a default may have been 
prevented.
Therefore, while I note Mrs Ps comments about making the payments, she was told 
this could be done in branch and I have nothing to show she informed Lloyds that this 
wasnt possible. Lloyds didnt default the account until January 2020 and before then 
it had sent her letters explaining the situation on her account and the actions that 
could be taken if payment wasnt made. Therefore, on balance I find that Lloyds 
provided Mrs P with the information she needed to understand the status of her 
account and about how to prevent a default. As she didnt take the action required by 
the deadline I do not find that Lloyds acted unreasonably by closing her account and 
applying the default.Mrs P called Lloyds on 20 January 2020 and to ask how to make a payment on her 
account which had been closed. The call was disconnected and the return call 
unsuccessful. However, by this time the account had already been closed and the 
default applied. 
Because of the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman