DRN-3982558
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC did not properly apply the direct debit guarantee and, 
separately, it cancelled the wrong direct debit.
What happened
Mr W asked Lloyds to raise a direct debit indemnity (DDI) claim after a service provider took 
a significantly increased payment without notice. This was disputed by the service provider. 
This meant Lloyds reversed the refund it had previously credited to Mr Ws account. It told 
Mr W as the service provider had defended the claim he would need to raise the matter with 
it directly. When Mr W had initially contacted Lloyds about this payment he had also 
instructed it to cancel one of the two direct debits he had to this service provider. Lloyds 
cancelled the wrong one in error. For this it paid Mr W £30 compensation.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. She said Lloyds had correctly followed the 
DDI claim process, and initially made a claim as Mr W said he had not been told his direct 
debit was increasing. However the service provider evidenced that it had sent notice to Mr W 
that the amount would be increasing and so Lloyds rejected the claim. This meant Lloyds 
was right to reverse the refund. And as the dispute was in essence a contractual issue 
between the service provider and Mr W Lloyds has acted appropriately. She felt the wrong 
direct debit was cancelled as a result of a misunderstanding and lack of clarity on the call, 
and the compensation Lloyds paid was fair in the circumstances.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr W asked for an ombudsmans review. He accepted the 
finding about the error with the cancellation of the wrong direct debit. But he said he did not 
think Lloyds had correctly followed the DDI claim process and he should not have had to 
contact the service provider to resolve this. He maintains he had not been informed the 
monthly payment would be increasing and Lloyds should have done this. The payment is 
now resolved but he wants compensation for all the time it has taken him to sort this out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I will explain why.
As Mr W now accepts the £30 compensation from Lloyds for cancelling the wrong direct 
debit is fair I will not comment further on this. I will focus here on what remains in dispute  
did Lloyds correctly follow the DDI claim process?
I am satisfied that it did. Ill explain why.
The direct debt guarantee says The Direct Debit Guarantee applies to all Direct Debits. It 
protects you in the rare event that there is an error in the payment of your Direct Debit, for 
instance if a payment is taken on the incorrect date, or the wrong amount is collected. It 
cannot be used to address contractual disputes between you and the billing organisation.
When Mr W first contacted Lloyds it seemed the wrong amount had been collected and so 
Lloyds refunded the payment and started the claim process. But the service provider 
defended the claim, sending Lloyds evidence that it had notified Mr W that his monthly 
payment would be increasing to the amount it then went on to collect. For this reason Lloyds 
reversed the refund. This is in line with how the guarantee works. 
And it follows that Lloyds would not agree to start the DDI claim process again for Mr W 
once the original cost had been re-debited given the findings of its original investigation.
Mr W says he was not told about the pending cost increase, but Lloyds has shared the 
notice he was sent which set out the new monthly cost and the effective date. I cannot fairly 
hold the bank liable for the non-receipt of this by Mr W. And I disagree with Mr Ws position 
that Lloyds ought to have told him the value of the direct debit was increasing. That would be 
a matter between the supplier and Mr W. 
Based on the results of its DDI claim investigation I find Lloyds decision to reverse the 
refund to be fair and reasonable. Its advice to Mr W to then pursue the matter with the 
service provider was in line with its internal process, and the direct debit guaranteed 
guidelines. 
As I have found no error in Lloyds actions it follows I am not making a compensatory award.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman