DRN-1519167
 
The complaint
Mr S has complained about two loans he took out with Provident Personal Credit Limited 
trading as Satsuma Loans. He says the loans were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr S took two instalment loans with Satsuma; one in November 2017 for £300 and a second 
loan in March 2018 for £1,000. There is still an outstanding balance on the second loan.
Our adjudicator upheld the second loan and recommended Satsuma put things right for
Mr S.
Satsuma made an offer in line with the adjudicator's recommendation. This was to remove 
the interest from Mr Ss outstanding balance to the sum of £992.00 and to remove any 
adverse data in relation to loan 2 from Mr Ss credit file. This leaves a remaining outstanding 
balance which Mr S still owes Satsuma of £737.07.
Mr S did not accept the offer as he doesn't believe it is fair. He considers the outstanding 
balance should be written off.
As the complaint has not been resolved informally; it's been passed to me for a decision.
There is no dispute about the merits in this case, so my decision will focus on redress and 
whether I think Satsuma's offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S asked, as part of his complaint that the outstanding balance is written off (in other 
words - that the business nullifies his loan). When a business does something wrong, Id 
expect the business to put it right by putting the consumer in the position they would be in if 
that error hadnt taken place. 
Mr S wouldnt have paid interest and charges on loan 2 had it not been granted, so I would 
expect the business to refund that interest (or remove it from the outstanding balance). But 
Mr S wouldnt have had the £1,000 from the loan either. But the problem here is that
Mr S has used the funds. So its simply not possible to put Mr S back in the position he 
would be in if he hadnt been given this loan in the first place. 
In circumstances where I dont think the lender shouldve given a loan, I would generally still 
expect a consumer to repay the money borrowed. This is because the consumer has had 
the benefit of this money. So typically I wouldnt say the business needed to write off the 
outstanding capital balance and I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to do so in this 
case.As there is outstanding balance, Satsuma should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr S. In doing so, I would remind Satsuma of its obligation to treat Mr S positively and 
sympathetically and Mr S should be aware he has a duty to engage with Satsuma over the 
repayment of the loan.
My final decision
 My final decision is that the offer made by Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as 
Satsuma Loans is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and I make 
no further award. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman