DRN-4163176
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) treated him in relation to a hire 
purchase agreement when he got into financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr H took a hire purchase agreement to acquire a car in September 2017. The car had a 
cash price of £23,480. Mr H paid a deposit of £500 and was due to pay 60 repayments of 
£604.18 per month, with a final payment of £754.18. Including interest and charges, the total 
repayable under the agreement was £37,517.98.
Unfortunately, Mr H got into financial difficulty. He says he was made redundant around April 
2018. And he made BMF aware in May 2018 that he had split from his partner. Mr H missed 
repayments under the agreement and BMF issued a notice of default in June 2018.
Mr H told BMF in June 2018 he would pay £1,200 towards the agreement following this 
notice, but then explained he could only afford £700. Later in June 2018 the agreement was 
terminated.
In July 2018 Mr H told BMF his financial situation took a turn for the worse, but this should 
improve. It appears he asked for a settlement quote for the finance. In August 2018 Mr H 
again explained he thought his situation would improve over the next few weeks, but asked 
for a list of options available to him. He also explained he was discussing his finances with 
other creditors.
Later in August 2018 a repayment plan appears to have been agreed but doesnt appear to 
have been met. In September 2018 Mr H again requested a settlement figure.
In October 2018, Mr H explained to BMF that his financial situation had not improved and 
asked to discuss the return of the car. BMF then said it was passing the details to a third 
party to repossess the car. Mr H then asked BMF to look at all of the options available to 
him. BMF told him repossession had already begun and the car would be sold at auction.
In November 2018 the car was sold at auction and in December 2018 Mr H was told BMF 
had received £15,873 from the sale, and the outstanding balance on the account was 
£15,704.36.
Mr H asked for a breakdown of this balance as he believed it should be much lower. In 
January 2019 Mr H explained to BMF he was expecting the balance to be around £1,065.20 
based on the cash price of the car, the amount hed paid to the agreement and the amount
the car sold for. He also told BMF that his financial situation had got worse, hed lost his 
home and was considering bankruptcy.
In February 2019 Mr H explained he was talking to his creditors to reduce his outgoings. He 
gave BMF the same update in April 2019.
In December 2020 Mr H got in touch with BMF and explained he now had no fixed address 
and said no one had responded to a previous email. BMF got in touch and said the balance 
of the account was £15,704.36.
Mr H again questioned the amount he owed and said this should be much less. He said at 
no point had BMF explained he would owe the interest under the agreement if he returned 
the car. He said he was in a dire financial situation and could not pay back the money owed.
Mr H later complained to BMF and in May 2022 it issued its final response. It said, in 
summary, that Mr H had chosen to voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement. It said the 
terms and conditions of the agreement explained that to VT, Mr H would have to pay half the 
total due under the agreement, £18,757.49. It said as he hadnt paid this, he owed 
£15,704.36. BMF said it didnt respond to an email Mr H sent it and it apologised. It said as 
the debt had now been sold, Mr H should contact the third party it was sold to, to discuss 
repayment.
Mr H was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our service. He reiterated what 
hed told BMF and said if it had been explained what handing the car back meant, he 
wouldnt have done it.
When BMF responded to our service, it explained that contrary to what it said in its final 
response, Mr H did not VT the agreement and in fact the car was repossessed. It said Mr H 
was given no advice about returning the car and his only other option wouldve been to clear 
the arrears but hed told it he couldnt afford this.
Our investigator issued an opinion. She said, in summary, that she didnt think Mr H had any 
reasonable alternatives other than to return the car. She said the terms of the agreement 
made it clear Mr H would be responsible for the total amount payable. And she said given Mr 
H had settlement figures, if he couldve raised this money she thought he wouldve paid it off.
Mr H responded and said he found out he couldve sold the car privately after hed handed it 
back. He said he thought the value of this was between £22,000 and £25,000.
Our investigator responded and said shed got a valuation for the car at the time which was 
for a retail price of £16,800 or a trade value of £14,600. So she said she didnt think Mr H 
couldve raised enough to pay off the settlement figure.
Mr H responded and said he wasnt given options to think about this. He said BMF are not 
£15,000 out of pocket so he shouldnt be charged this. And he said the valuation must be 
wrong, because the car sold for more than the price suggested at auction. He also said he 
couldve borrowed money from family to cover the difference if he sold the car.
Our investigator explained this didnt change her opinion. So, the case was passed to me to 
decide.
I sent Mr H and BMF a provisional decision on 21 April 2023. My findings from this decision 
were as follows:
Mr H complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Hs 
complaint about BMF.
What I need to consider here is whether BMF treated Mr H fairly and reasonably when he 
got into financial difficulty and told it about his circumstances.When considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to consider relevant law, regulations 
and good industry practice from the time. So, Ive firstly considered what guidance and 
obligations BMF had to follow.
There are a number of requirements set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the 
Principles for Business handbook (PRIM).
PRIM 2.1.1 6 sets out that:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
The FCA also sets out responsibilities in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
CONC 7.3.4 sets out:
A firm must treat customers in default or arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration
CONC 7.3.5 goes on to give some examples of treating a consumer with forbearance:
considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges
allowing deferment of payment of arrears
accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a customer to 
recover from an unexpected income shock
Its also worth pointing out here that BMF had some responsibilities to consider Mr Hs 
personal situation at the time. Hed explained to it when he got into financial difficulty that he 
had been made redundant and then split from his partner. And when he complained, he 
explained hed lost his home.
The FCA issued Occasional Paper No. 8  Customer Vulnerability in 2015 that aimed to 
increase understanding around good practice for dealing with vulnerable consumers.
This explained:
A vulnerable consumer is someone who, due to their personal circumstance, is especially 
susceptible to detriment, particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of care
Under Examples of risk factors for vulnerability it says:
change in circumstances (e.g. job loss, bereavement, divorce)
So, it follows this that Im satisfied Mr Hs circumstances had more than one of the risk 
factors for vulnerability. And Im satisfied BMF wouldve been aware of this when he first 
discussed his financial difficulties with it and as the situation developed to the point it 
repossessed his car and then he later complained.
In summary, BMF needed to make sure it paid due regard to the interests of Mr H, treat him 
fairly and treat his situation with forbearance and due consideration. And it needed to do this 
while having regard to his situation as a vulnerable consumer.
Ive then gone on to consider what happened.
Mr H first made BMF aware of his situation in April 2018 and he asked for a payment break. I cant see BMF initially took any steps to help with his situation beyond asking him to contact 
it. And it terminated the agreement around two months later, despite being aware of Mr Hs 
personal circumstances and that he was vulnerable, and despite Mr H making an offer to 
pay over half of the amount outstanding at the time.
Following this, Mr H asked for his options for the car several times. I cant see any evidence 
his options were discussed with him, other than settlement quotes being issued.
When Mr H did request to return the car, BMF immediately arranged for the car to be 
repossessed. I cant see it explained the implications of this, explored any other options or 
gave Mr H an idea of what he would owe before it did this.
Thinking about this, Im satisfied here that BMF didnt treat Mr H in line with the FCAs 
principles or guidance set out above. It follows that I think it shouldve done more under the 
circumstances.
As an example of what couldve happened, if Mr H had been given the option to VT the 
agreement  which despite what BMF said in its final response wasnt what occurred  his 
liability wouldve been limited to half the amount due under the finance agreement. This was 
£18,757.49. Mr H had paid a deposit of £500 and from what Ive seen made nine 
repayments towards the agreement, this in total appears to be £5,937.62. This meant Mr H 
wouldve been left owing £12,819.87, or around £3,000 less than what BMF said he owed 
following the repossession.
Beside this, I need to think about the specific circumstances of this complaint and what BMF 
are now charging Mr H for. The vast majority of the amount BMF said Mr H owed after the 
car was repossessed was made up of interest, on money lent that was largely returned to 
BMF once the car was sold.
Ive considered whether it was fair and reasonable, given Mr Hs circumstances, to make him 
liable for over £15,500 for this.
The settlement figure Mr H received in April 2018, which I accept was some time before the 
car was sold at auction, was for £22,512.49. BMF received £15,873 from the sale of the car 
 meaning a shortfall of £6,639.49 from this. This is significantly less than the roughly 
£15,700 BMF said Mr H should pay.
But, Ive thought about what BMFs actual loss was here. The cash price of the car was 
£23,480. BMF received £15,873 for it from auction, meaning a shortfall of £7,776. But, as 
above, Mr H had paid £5,937.62 towards the car  some of which covered interest. So, it 
appears BMF is short around £1,669.38. On top of this, Ive also considered that BMF also 
had a loss from the interest that accrued on the amount outstanding when Mr H wasnt 
making payments, but still had the car.
Thinking about this, Im satisfied that BMF charging a vulnerable consumer over £15,700 
when it has suffered an actual loss of much less than this isnt fair and reasonable and 
doesnt meet the FCA rules in place. In particular Im satisfied this does not represent 
treating Mr Hs situation with forbearance and due consideration, nor is it paying due regard 
to the interests of Mr H and treating him fairly.
I have considered that BMF did ask Mr H to discuss the situation with it at times and it 
appears he didnt get back to it. But, I need to consider his situation at the time. And the FCA 
in the Occasional Paper 8 explained:
 FCA expects firms to engage sensitively with borrowers who have specific needs or circumstances that are likely to limit their ability to engage effectively
So, I think BMF still shouldve done more here.
In summary, Im satisfied BMF didnt treat Mr H as it should when he made it aware of his 
financial difficulties and vulnerability. Im satisfied it shouldve done more to consider his 
circumstances. Im satisfied it didnt consider his best interests when it repossessed the car.
Im satisfied BMF didnt explain available options nor the implications of repossession to Mr 
H. And Im satisfied it is not fair and reasonable to charge Mr H the full amount of interest 
due under the agreement given his circumstances and the fact it has received back the 
proceeds from the sale of the car.
So, I now need to consider what would be fair and reasonable to put things right.
I should explain here that Im also satisfied Mr H has been caused a significant amount of 
distress and inconvenience because of whats happened. BMFs actions, or lack of in parts, 
wouldve added more stress and significant financial worry during a time when he was 
already going through what must have been an incredibly stressful period in his personal life. 
And Ive considered that this was over a period of several years, given the debt is still, 
presumably, outstanding.
As above, I dont think its reasonable to charge Mr H the whole amount of interest due here. 
But, I do think there was a period when interest was legitimately due on the agreement and 
wasnt paid. I dont know what this exact figure is. But, thinking about whats fair and 
reasonable, along with Mr Hs situation, rather than making a separate award for distress 
and inconvenience I think BMF should limit Mr Hs liability to the £1,669.38 that it lost out on 
from the situation.
I gave both parties four weeks to respond. 
Mr H responded and said he agreed with the decision and would be happy to set up a 
payment plan for the £1,669.38 with BMF. He also said BMFs actions had played a huge 
part in him struggling with his health at the time, which he gave some further details about.
BMF responded and said it strongly disagreed with the decision. In summary, it said the FCA 
guidance didnt extend to automatically writing off debt. It said it accepted it might have dealt 
with Mr H more sympathetically around the time of the repossession but he wasnt 
responding to contact. BMF said a better solution wouldve been to offset the sale price of 
the car from the settlement figures, which wouldve left Mr H with a liability of around 
£6,703.37.
BMF also said my decision was punitive, as I hadnt taken into account the additional cost of 
lending the funds to Mr H. It requested I reconsider the calculation or the outcome of the 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought about what BMF said in response to my provisional decision. Im happy 
some parts have already been covered in the provisional decision and set out above  I 
wont repeat things here. I accept what BMF said about the FCA guidance not obliging firms to automatically write off 
debt and instead says customers should be treated with forbearance and due consideration. 
But, Im not suggesting BMF should automatically write off debt. BMF needed to consider the 
very specific circumstances Mr H was dealing with to make sure they were in line with what 
the FCA does say. Im still satisfied it did not do this. I should also point out that the FCA 
gives examples of what firms can do  but this doesnt mean they are limited to these 
specific options.
Ive carefully considered what BMF said about the redress I recommended being punitive.
BMF said there were other costs in lending the money to Mr H that havent been considered. 
And I accept this may be the case. But, BMF hasnt demonstrated what these costs were. I 
understand the difficulty it may have in providing accurate figures here, but it hasnt provided 
examples of these costs nor estimates.
In the absence of other information here, and considering the severe distress and 
inconvenience caused, along with what Mr H told us about the impact on his health, I still 
think not awarding Mr H a separate amount to reflect this and instead reducing the liability to 
£1,669.38 is fair and reasonable under the circumstances. And Im also satisfied this isnt a 
punitive award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to put 
things right by doing the following:
Take the debt back from the third party it was sold to
Limit Mr Hs liability under the agreement to £1,669.38* **
Update Mr Hs credit record to reflect this
* I have assumed, given what Mr H has told us, that he hasnt paid towards the arrears on 
the agreement with the third party who bought the debt from BMF. If he has, BMF should 
reduce the amount above by any repayments made. If Mr H has paid over £1,669.38, BMF 
should return this to Mr H and add 8% simple interest. If BMF considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr H how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
**I would politely remind BMF that the FCAs guidance about financial difficulties, and the 
current guidance about vulnerable consumers, may apply to Mr Hs current situation. It 
should treat this with forbearance and due consideration. This should include setting up an 
affordable repayment plan for this amount, if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman