DRN-2093462
The complaint
Ms A and Mr C say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them two payment protection
insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
Ms A and Mr C took out a PPI policy in 1990 when they applied for a mortgage. At that time 
PPI was compulsory on Nationwide mortgages if the loan was over 95% of the property 
value or purchase price, whichever was lower.
They then took out a new policy in 2000, again at the same time as they were applying for a 
mortgage.
The 1990 policy gave Ms A and Mr C accident, sickness and unemployment cover. The 
2000 policy gave solely unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for the policies. 
They recall both sales took place in a Nationwide branch, but the society cant confirm this.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms A and Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive
followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
the 1990 sale
The first thing Ive considered is whether Ms A and Mr C had a fair choice about buying the 
policy. This is central to their complaint  theyve told us Nationwide insisted they took out its 
PPI, saying without it their mortgage application would be declined. In their response to the 
adjudicators view, Ms A and C told us that they thought all compulsory policies were mis-
sold.
Nationwide says taking PPI did form part of their conditions for certain mortgages, but this 
would have been made clear throughout and if Ms A and Mr C didnt want PPI, they couldve 
rejected the mortgage offer. I cant know what was said in the meeting, but Ive thought 
carefully about Ms A and Mr Cs comments and looked at the available paperwork. 
Sometimes PPI policies were compulsory in order to secure a particular interest rate or a 
specific mortgage deal. In this case Ms A and Mr C wanted to take out a mortgage with an 
LTV (loan to value) of over 95% and that meant they had to take out PPI. So, I need to 
decide as the product was compulsory, whether Nationwide was entitled to make it 
compulsory. In my view, a lender can make a policy compulsory as it can decide and set the 
terms on which it is prepared to lend. So there was nothing wrong in that. And whilst the PPI 
was compulsory for them, I think that was likely something Ms A and Mr C had accepted in 
order to get the mortgage they wanted. 
Their mortgage offer stated that PPI was compulsory in their circumstances, so I can see 
Nationwide made Ms A and Mr C aware it was a condition of their mortgage. And as Ive 
said making PPI a condition of a mortgage doesnt mean it was mis-sold. Ms A and Mr C 
couldve chosen to apply for a mortgage from a different lender if this wasnt the overall 
mortgage package they wanted. So this isnt a reason for me to uphold their complaint. 
Overall, I think Nationwide made it clear the PPI was a condition of their mortgage, and they 
agreed to take it out. 
the 2000 sale
Ms A and Mr C indicated that they wanted PPI on their mortgage application form. They both 
signed separately to confirm this. They selected only unemployment cover, not the more 
common package of accident, sickness and unemployment cover. This suggests to me they 
had discussed the cover with the society and understood they had choices. There was 
nothing on the form that I think could reasonably have led them to believe the cover was 
mandatory. So Im satisfied Nationwide made it clear the PPI was optional, and Ms A and Mr 
C agreed to take it out.
both sales
Nationwide says it didnt recommend the policies to Ms A and Mr C, so it didnt have to 
check the cover was right for them. Ms A and Mr C say it was recommended. I havent seen 
any evidence that Nationwide looked at their individual circumstances and then gave tailored 
advice. Ms A and Mr C say it was compulsory in 1900 so it was more than recommended, 
and they point to the wording strongly recommend on their 2000 mortgage offer. But I dont 
think they could have interpreted this as a bespoke advice. However, even if Nationwide had 
recommended the PPI to Ms A and Mr C based on what Ive seen of their circumstances in 
1900 and 2000 I think the cover was suitable for them. I say this because:
Ms A and Mr C were eligible for the cover and wouldnt have been affected by any
of the main things not covered by the policies
They were entitled to six months sick pay from their jobs, but the PPI wouldve paid 
out in addition to their work benefits and for much longer - up to 24 months under 
their 1990 policy (they didnt select accident and sickness cover under their 2000 
policy). It would have paid out in addition to any redundancy payments from their 
employers, giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. And it 
wouldve allowed them to use any savings to cover other living expenses whilst not 
working, or to keep them intact for their future needs. On both occasions Ms A and 
Mr C were borrowing a significant sum secured on their home. Given the serious 
consequences of missing mortgage payments I think PPI couldve been useful for 
Ms A and Mr C in addition to their existing means. 
I dont know at what stage during the sale the costs were made clear. But the PPI
was reasonably priced for the benefits offered and apparently affordable. 
Ms A and Mr C say there were no regular reviews of their circumstances and the continuing 
relevance of the insurance, but Nationwide was under no obligation to do this. It was Ms A 
and Mr Cs responsibility to notify the insurer of any changes that might affect their eligibility. And they could have cancelled the 2000 cover at any time if their circumstances changed, or 
they no longer wanted it  without incurring any further cost. 
Nationwide also had to give clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI so Ms A 
and Mr C could make a properly informed choice. And its possible Nationwide didnt give 
them as much information as it shouldve done. But for the same reasons Ive found the PPI 
suitable, I dont think better information wouldve put them off taking out the PPI.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the 2000 policy to Ms A and Mr C 
because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI
premium) - so it should have told Ms A and Mr C about that. Because Nationwide 
didnt tell Ms A and Mr C, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding this complaint.
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms A and Mr C.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Ms A and Mr C any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium of the 2000 policy. I 
understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman