DRN-1968898
 
Complaint
Mr M has complained about the way Halifax Share Dealing Limited (Halifax) handled the 
transfer of his ISA portfolio from another financial business (business A). He says his 
instructions werent followed and he has lost out as a result. 
Background 
In August 2019, Mr M set up an online share dealing account with Halifax. He wanted to 
transfer his ISA portfolio from business A to Halifax. He held cash and shares in his portfolio. 
He contacted Halifax by phone before completing the transfer and discussed various options 
he was considering as part of the transfer. Following this discussion Mr M completed the 
relevant transfer form and emailed it to Halifax. The transfer was completed towards the end 
of August 2019. 
After speaking to business A, Mr M discovered that his portfolio of shares had been sold 
before being transferred as cash, which was not what he wanted. He says he only wanted 
the cash element of his portfolio to be transferred. He contacted Halifax as he was 
concerned it would cost him more to re-buy the shares. He says he was told by a call 
handler at Halifax that it would re-purchase the shares, so that he didnt lose out. But he was 
later told the transfer had been completed correctly because he had indicated he wanted a 
cash transfer, so Halifax wouldnt be re-purchasing the shares at the sale price. Halifax did 
offer Mr M £200 compensation to recognise the mistake it made by suggesting it would re-
purchase the shares. Mr M disagreed that he had indicated on the form he wanted his 
shares liquidated. He didnt accept the offer made and brought his complaint to this service. 
The complaint was looked at by one of our investigators who felt that the offer made by 
Halifax was fair in the circumstances. She didnt think Halifax needed to do anything further. 
She didnt think Halifax had acted against Mr Ms instructions, and although he was given 
misleading advice about re-buying the shares, this was quickly corrected. Mr M didnt agree 
with the assessment. He felt that Halifax had incorrectly completed the transfer and he had 
lost out as a result and it had caused him a lot of inconvenience. As no agreement could be 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator. 
The question at the crux of this complaint is whether a mistake by Halifax caused Mr Ms 
entire holdings to be transferred as cash rather than just the cash element he held with 
business A, as he has explained he wanted. 
Ive listened to the telephone call Mr M had with Halifax on 23 August 2019. During this 
conversation there is a long discussion between the call handler and Mr M about his requirements. There were several different options discussed about the way Mr M wanted 
the transfer to happen. At one point Mr M mentions transferring both cash and shares but he 
also mentions a partial transfer. So, I cant say the Mr M gave a clear instruction or that the 
Halifax call handler confirmed an agreement of the exact way the transfer would take place. 
But the call handler did say to Mr M on more than one occasion that if he had precise 
instructions, he should include the details in an email to Halifax. 
Mr M completed the ISA transfer form Halifax sent to him online, took a photo of it and 
emailed it to Halifax. Ive seen a copy of the email he sent and the form. There is a section in 
the form that asks How do you want this transfer to be made?  the word cash is printed 
and the word only is hand written (and some other handwritten words are crossed out). Mr M 
says he completed the form in this way as it was his intention to only transferring the cash he 
held in his ISA with business A. Within the email Mr M didnt include any specific instructions 
about how the transfer was required to place. He did ask at the end of the email to be 
informed before the transfer is about to. An email was sent by Halifax later the same day to 
say the transfer was being processed. So, I havent found that Mr M gave Halifax a specific 
instruction about partially transferring his portfolio or any other specific requirements about 
how he required the transfer to take place. 
The most common ways to transfer from one ISA provider to another is either by liquidating 
any holdings and completing a cash transfer or by transferring without the underlying 
investment being sold (known as a stock transfer or an in-specie transfer). It is clear from the 
calls Mr M had with Halifax that he understood that a stock transfer would take longer. It 
seems in the end Mr M required a partial transfer  so he intended for his shares to remain 
in the ISA he held with business A. It isnt unheard of to partially transfer an ISA holding but 
it isnt something all providers offer. The online transfer form didnt provide an option for a 
partial transfer. And while Mr M did discuss partial transfers in the 23 August call, I dont 
think the transfer form and email he sent was clear that was his intention. The instruction Mr 
M gave to make the transfer by cash only was interpreted by Halifax as full transfer of his 
ISA holding. Without any specific instructions around a partial transfer, I think Halifaxs 
interpretation was reasonable. This means I havent found that it did anything wrong by 
asking business A to liquidate the shares and complete the transfer in cash. 
I appreciate that Mr M felt the form and transfer process isnt clear. I know Mr M thinks that 
Halifax should have picked up that he only intended to transfer the cash element of his 
portfolio and contacted him before completing the transfer to clarify. But I dont think this is 
practical nor is it feasible in every transfer request given much of this process is likely to be 
automated. So, I think its reasonable it relies on the information it receives from its 
customers. 
Ive considered the information Mr M was given after he noticed his shares had been sold as 
part of the transfer. Having listen to the initial call he had with Halifax about this, I can see 
why he thought that the shares would be re-purchased for him. For him to be later told that 
this wouldnt be happening has clearly caused him upset and raised his hopes that the 
position could be remedied for him. Im conscious that Halifax did quickly correct the position 
for Mr M. My understanding is that the day after the call, Mr M was told his complaint wasnt 
being upheld in respect of the transfer being completed incorrectly. And subsequently a 
payment of £200 was offered to recognise the confusion caused and for the loss of 
expectation. Halifax has said this offer is still open for Mr M to accept.  Having considered 
the offer, I think it is a fair and reasonable level of compensation to recognise the impact on 
Mr M for the way Halifax handled this situation. 
It is very unfortunate that the transfer of Mr Ms ISA didnt happen as he intended but Im not 
persuaded that this was as a result of something Halifax did or failed to do. For the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think Halifax are at fault here, so I wont be recommending that it covers the losses Mr M has said he suffered. However, I do agree that it did cause him 
distress and a loss of expectation by giving him unclear information about the re-purchasing 
the shares. I think the £200 offer Halifax made in this respect is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision 
My final decision is that Halifax Share Dealing Limited has made a fair and reasonable offer 
to settle Mr Ms complaint  so I require it to honour that offer, but nothing more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman