DRN-4217361
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that more 2 life Ltd trading as Standard Life Home Finance caused 
unreasonable delays during their mortgage process.
What happened
The details and background of this complaint are well known to both Mr and Mrs M and 
Standard Life. With this in mind, Ive purposefully not listed everything that has happened, 
instead, Ive highlighted some key milestones in the timeline.
Mr and Mrs M, with the assistance of an adviser, applied for a Lifetime Mortgage with 
Standard Life in February 2022. The mortgage was to be taken on a new build property 
being purchased by Mr and Mrs M.
A valuation was completed for Standard Life on 8 February 2022 and questions were raised 
at this point by the surveyor who completed the valuation. Standard Life passed these 
questions on to its solicitor (company A) who were acting on its behalf. A number of 
questions were sent to the adviser who had completed the application and these were 
responded to on 17 February 2022.  Company A reviewed this and it let Standard Life know 
that it will need to see the title documents from Mr and Mrs Ms solicitor before it could 
confirm if the questions raised had been answered or caused an issue.
Standard Life issued its mortgage offer on 27 February 2022 and added a condition to 
ensure Mr and Mrs Ms solicitor checked and confirmed these questions were answered 
together with its other special conditions.
Company A were misinformed who was representing Mr and Mrs M and didnt send the 
mortgage offer which included the special conditions to their solicitor (Company B) until 9 
March 2022.
Mr and Mrs M hoped to complete their mortgage and move to their new home in April 2022 
and moved out of their previous property at this point. The mortgage did not complete as 
expected and it was not until 15 July 2022 and Mr and Mrs M raised a complaint at the end 
of June 2022 about the actions of Standard Life. They felt it had delayed the process through 
failing to do what it should have. This caused considerable distress and inconvenience as 
expected moving days came and went. Mr and Mrs M highlighted the impact this had on 
their health.
Standard Life looked at the complaint and provided a timeline of events. It felt Company A 
had caused delays which were avoidable and this had added to the process and distress 
and inconvenience Mr and Mrs M had experienced. It didnt accept it had been the only 
reason for their mortgage completion taking longer than expected and said they felt 
Company B had failed to provide information, which resulted in this needing to be chased by 
Company A. 
To recognise the impact of Company As errors, it offered to pay £500 for distress and 
inconvenience. It felt this was fair as although the process had taken longer than expected, it 
had continued to honour the original rate offered, so Mr and Mrs M didnt need to reapply 
with a higher interest rate. 
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt think Standard Life had gone far enough. 
He agreed it wasnt fair and reasonable to say it was the only cause of the delay in the 
process as there was still information outstanding from Company B at the end of June 2022. 
But Company A could have reviewed what it had been sent sooner and when it didnt, it 
resulted in delays in the missing information being chased. He felt it was fair to ask Standard 
Life to cover some of the storage costs Mr and Mrs M had incurred when their belongings 
needed to remain in storage for longer than expected. He asked that it pay £240 towards 
these costs, equivalent to 3 weeks worth of storage.
Our investigator didnt think Standard Life needed to increase its offer made for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. He felt what had been offered was fair to reflect the impact of 
Standard Life and Company As failings. But as he didnt think it was responsible for the bulk 
of the delays with the mortgage, he didnt think it was right to increase this.
Standard Life accepted the recommendation. Mr and Mrs M did not. They feel the impact on 
their mental and physical health has been significant with considerable anxiety caused by 
Standard Life. They do not believe £500 for the distress and inconvenience is fair and 
throughout the process, Standard Life made false promises and assurances which added to 
the distress. 
Our investigators opinion remained unchanged and as a result, Mr and Mrs M asked that 
their complaint be referred for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M, but Ive decided to uphold this complaint 
in much the same way as our investigator has. 
It is not disputed that Standard Life and Company A could have done things better when 
dealing with Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage completion. In total from offer to completion, the 
process took almost five months and this is longer than its reasonable to expect. Standard 
Life doesnt think it is responsible for all of the delays that occurred and it has highlighted 
that Company A was waiting on information from Company B until the end of June 2022. 
This was information to confirm all of the special conditions attached to the mortgage offer 
had been met.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M feel Company B who was acting on their behalf was doing all 
they could to ensure their transaction was progressing quickly and I dont doubt this was the 
case. Company B was sent a copy of the mortgage offer on 9 March 2022 and this included 
the details of the special conditions that needed to be met.
From the information provided, the letter exchange demonstrates that information was being 
provided in relation to the outstanding enquires but that the responses sent were not 
answering all of the questions raised. So follow up enquiries were sent to clarify final points. 
Company A could have responded sooner than it did to the information it was provided but 
when Company B did not provide everything needed from the outset, it needed to be 
chased. Based on this, while I think Company A took longer than it should to review 
information that it was provided and request what was missing, I cant say it is the only 
reason why the process took as long as it did to complete.I am grateful for Mr and Mrs M sharing the details of the impact their house move had on 
them and their health. It is clear this was an extremely worrying time. Ive needed to consider 
whether, based on the information presented to me, that I think Standard Life and the 
actions of Company A are the cause of this loss. And while I think it is clear things could 
have been better and mistakes were made, I am not persuaded that but for its errors, that 
there wouldnt have been delays or distress and inconvenience experienced. So Ive needed 
to bear this in mind when thinking about what is a fair and reasonable award for Standard 
Life to make when considering the impact of its failings. 
The delays in the mortgage completion caused significant upset and worry to Mr and Mrs M 
and this was over a period of weeks and months. Although there was information being 
waited on from Company B, Standard Life were not able to be clear with Mr and Mrs M on 
the next steps and what was needed and I think this added to the anxiety caused. Standard 
Life has made an award to recognise the impact of this and while I acknowledge this isnt at 
the level Mr and Mrs M feel is appropriate, it is inline with what Id expect to see for a 
complaint of this nature and the impact described. Had I been persuaded Standard Life was 
responsible for all of the delays, this award would be higher, but as it stands based on my 
reasoning above, I am not going to ask it to increase this.
Our investigator also recommended that Standard Life pay Mr and Mrs M £240 towards the 
storage costs incurred as they waited to move into their new home. I think Mr and Mrs M 
would have likely needed to always pay for some storage based on when they moved from 
their old home but this was increased by the delays added with both Company A and B. 
There is no guarantee on timeframes when thinking about what might have happened and I 
accept this. So I think the recommendation made by our investigator is fair and recognises 
the impact Standard Life and Company A had on the timeframe and added costs.
Putting things right
If Standard Life hasnt already done so, it should pay Mr and Mrs M £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused when it added delays to their mortgage completion process.
It should pay £240 to Mr and Mrs M as a part refund of the storage costs incurred. As this is 
an out-of-pocket expense already paid, it should add simple interest of 8% to this payment 
from the date of the invoice (25 July 2022) until the date of payment.  If it feels it is 
appropriate to do so, it may deduct tax from this interest payment at the standard rate and 
upon request, provide Mr and Mrs M a statement of any tax paid.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman