DRN-2575450
The complaint
Miss A believes Secure Trust Bank Plc acted irresponsibly by agreeing a hire purchase 
agreement shed applied for.
What happened
In July 2015, Miss A was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Secure Trust. Miss A paid a £1 deposit, and the agreement was for £11,456.69 over 60 
months, with monthly repayments of £324.21. After falling into arrears, the car was 
repossessed in October 2016. And Miss A still owes an outstanding balance to Secure Trust.
Miss A has complained that Secure Trust didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. 
Shes said she only wanted a cheap run-around, as her existing car was beyond repair. And 
shes said she was misled by the dealership into taking out a finance agreement she couldnt 
afford, as she was on a low income at the time. Secure Trust didnt agree theyd acted 
irresponsibly, so Miss A brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Secure Trust provided a copy of the credit file and the payslip they considered when they 
approved Miss As application. They said the credit file showed no adverse data, but our 
investigator didnt agree. She said there was a small default the month before the agreement 
started. And she said they calculated Miss As weekly pay to be higher than it actually was 
based on the payslip provided. Taking this, the size of the loan, the term, the interest rate 
and that the monthly repayment was around 25% of Miss As monthly salary; the investigator 
didnt think Secure Trust had carried out sufficient checks.
The investigator thought that Secure Trust shouldve checked Miss As expenditure to 
determine whether the agreement was affordable, and whether the monthly repayments 
were sustainable. The investigator reviewed Miss As bank statements from the time of the 
application to establish her expenditure. And she said that Miss A had a disposable monthly 
income of £438.49 after paying all of her commitments and the payment to Secure Trust.
So the investigator said that, if Secure Trust had carried out sufficient and appropriate 
checks, then they would most likely have seen the agreement was affordable to Miss A. So 
the investigator didnt think Secure Trust had acted irresponsibly by agreeing the finance.
Miss A didnt agree. She said she wasnt on a fixed income and money shed borrowed from 
family members hadnt been taken into consideration. This, plus her other commitments, 
meant she was constantly using her overdraft facility. Miss A also said that the credit search 
Secure Trust did didnt show a true picture of her financial situation. Because Miss A didnt 
agree, this has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Secure Trust complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss A would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Secure Trust make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss A 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Secure Trust act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Secure Trust didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Miss 
As application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Secure Trust complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss A 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Secure Trust said they verified Miss As employment from her 10 July 2015 payslip, and they 
calculated her weekly taxable income to be £414.38. Theyve also said Miss A passed their 
affordability assessment and she met the necessary credit checks. And, in signing the 
agreement, Miss A confirmed that she could afford the monthly payments. 
I dont consider it acceptable for Secure Trust just to rely on Miss As declaration that the 
agreement was affordable. Id expect them to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks 
to satisfy themselves that this was the case.
Ive seen Miss As payslip for 10 July 2015, and this shows she picked up £341.06 net 
(£414.38 gross) for that week. But, when looking at the year to date figures, her average 
weekly income was actually £300.15 net (£352.98 gross). While I appreciate Miss A has said 
she wasnt on a fixed income, and her hours changed on a weekly basis; based on the 
payslip Ive seen Im satisfied that calculating an average weekly income is a reasonable 
way of working out what Miss A actually picked up.
Secure Trust provided a copy of the credit file they checked at the time of Miss As 
application. This says Miss A had an account with a mobile phone provider, and that shed 
had a £10 default in June 2015. While the default was for a small amount, because it was 
very recent, it could be an indicator of current financial difficulties. And Miss A was taking out 
a large loan in proportion to her income, at an interest rate of 24.7%. So I wouldve expected 
Secure Trust to do additional checks before making their lending decision.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss A could sustainably 
repay the borrowing?
The main additional check Id expect Secure Trust to have done is to have asked Miss A 
about her commitments and other expenditure to ensure their finance was affordable at the 
point of application, and to see that affordability was sustainable throughout the lifetime of 
the lending. This couldve been done by a number of methods, and I wouldnt necessarily 
have expected Secure Trust to have asked Miss A for copies of her bank statements.However, Miss A has provided her bank statements for the period 2 April to 2 July 2015. She 
signed the agreement with Secure Trust in July 2015 so, in the absence of anything else, I 
think these statements give a good indication of what Secure Trust would likely have 
discovered if theyd asked about Miss As expenditure at the time.
The bank statements show that Miss A was picking up an average of £327.61 a week from 
her employment  more than the £300.15 average showing on her payslip. However, 
working on the lower of these figures, Miss A had an average monthly income of £1,300.65. 
Miss A was living at home at the time, and her only regular monthly outgoings showing on 
her bank statements were her car insurance (£233.79), her car tax (£12.68) and payments to 
her mobile phone (an average of £104.68)  a total of £351.15. 
Miss A said she was borrowing money from a family member. Ive seen she paid money to a 
family member on an irregular basis. From 2 April to 2 July 2015 she paid the family member 
an average of £271.66 a month; and shes said that £200 of this was payment for her board. 
So the remainder would be paying back the money shed previously borrowed. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, Miss As monthly disposable income was £677.84, 
more than double the payment to Secure Trust. Miss A has also said that she was constantly 
overdrawn. Ive seen that Miss A occasionally used her overdraft facility, but she wasnt 
constantly overdrawn. 
Finally, Miss A has said that the credit search didnt reflect her actual financial situation at 
the time. While I havent seen any evidence of any other credit commitments from Miss As 
bank statements, not all lenders update the credit reference agencies. So, while Miss A 
mayve had more credit commitments at the time, she didnt declare these to Secure Trust. 
And I dont think Secure Trust have done anything wrong by not taking into consideration 
things they werent aware of at the time.
Based on this, Im satisfied that, had Secure Trust carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks, they wouldve seen that the finance was affordable. So, Im also satisfied they didnt 
act irresponsibly when approving the loan. And I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Did Secure Trust act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think Secure Trust acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss As complaint about Secure Trust Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman