DRN-2379141
The complaint
Mr D complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) quoted him the wrong price 
when he wanted to sell some shares. He wants HSDL to compensate him for the loss he 
would have made, and for the inconvenience and distress hes been caused.
What happened
On 14 April 2020, Mr D wanted to sell his holding of Apple Inc Common stock (AAPL). He 
knew that the bid price was around $286, but the price showing on HSDLs online platform 
was $267. He queried this in an online webchat, but says he wasnt reassured. He decided 
not to sell his shares and he complained to HSDL about its inaccurate prices.
HSDL said that, because AAPL is an international stock, prices on its website are indicative 
and are shown as the previous trading days closing price. It said, if Mr D had placed a sale 
order, he would have received the market price.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt 
conclude that Mr D had made a loss and she couldnt conclude that there had been any 
errors in the information provided by HSDL.
Mr D didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
He wanted to place a market order, not a limit order, so he should have been quoted the 
market price.
If hed placed the order, he would have lost out.
HSDLs order execution policy is misleading.
Other platforms do provide up to date prices and their charges and exchange rates are 
cheaper than HSDL.
HSDL said the price shown was at close on 13 April 2020, but he thinks the price was 
from 10 April 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators conclusions for the following reasons:
If I was to conclude that HSDL had made a mistake, I would expect it to put Mr D back in the 
position he would have been in if an error hadnt occurred. But Mr D did not make a financial 
loss. Mr D says he would have made a loss if hed decided to sell the shares. I dont think he 
would have made a loss  and I will explain why later. But, if I did think HSDL had made a 
mistake, I would not expect it to compensate Mr D for a loss that he didnt incur.
The shares Mr D wanted to sell an international stock. HSDL does not quote live prices for 
international stocks. Mr D says that other platforms do, and that may well be the case. But 
my role is not to tell HSDL how it should operate its business. Rather, I am required to 
resolve individual disputes between businesses and consumers. 
The indicative price for AAPL shares on 14 April 2020 was shown as the latest closing price. 
Mr D says it showed the closing price on 10 April, rather than 13 April. Its possible this was 
the case  HSDL said in its response to his complaint that its price feeds may have been 
delayed due to the bank holiday. But the price was indicative, so I dont find any delay in 
updating the closing prices makes any difference to my overall conclusion, particularly as 
Mr D did not take any action as a result of this price which caused him to make a financial 
loss.
Mr D queried the price that was showing by an online webchat. The operator explained that 
the price shown was indicative and that, if you place the trade now you will get the price we 
obtain from the market. Mr D was not reassured and said:
You need to send me an undertaking that I will get the current price not yesterday's price. If 
I sell it and get yesterday's price are you going to pay me the difference?
HSDL said:
You would get the price we trade the stock at today depending on the price on the market, 
you can save the chat for confirmation.
I find HSDL provided enough clear information for Mr D to make an informed choice. Hed 
already checked the current market price, so if he was happy to trade at this price, I think he 
reasonably could have done so. He chose not to go ahead with the sale.
Mr D says that if he had decided to sell, he wouldnt have received the market price. I dont 
agree. HSDL made it clear he would receive the market price, in line with its obligations to 
obtain the best possible result for Mr D.
HSDLs order execution policy outlines how it executes international trades. There isnt a 
requirement for this policy to explain how prices are quoted on its website. Rather it is to 
provide information, in general terms, about how it ensures it obtains the best possible 
results when it trades. I dont find theres anything in the order execution policy that makes a 
difference to my conclusion - because Mr D did not place an order.
Mr D wants compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused. I appreciate 
hes spent time pursuing this complaint. But, as Ive not found HSDL made a mistake, it 
follows that I dont find it is required to compensate Mr D.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman