DRN-2479091
The complaint
Mr B complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI), trading as Green Flag, didnt properly help him 
and his wife when he called them out under his roadside assistance policy.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr B and his wife were on their way to a funeral when unfortunately, their 
car broke down. They said they told UKI when calling up how cold it was, that Mr B had a 
medical condition affected by the weather, they were both elderly and just getting over a viral 
infection. Mr B also let UKI know he was disabled.
Mr B received messages from multiple different recovery companies telling him they were 
coming to collect him which he found confusing. The person who did attend the car wasnt a 
mechanic just recovery, so Mr B asked her to take them to the local services and call a 
mechanic to get them on their way. After around four hours since the original call, Mr B 
asked UKI where the mechanic was, and he was told itd be another hour at least as one 
hadnt been booked yet. When the mechanic did arrive, he diagnosed the issues promptly, 
and it was then agreed Mr Bs car would be taken to a garage for repairs.
After this Mr B complained, saying he wanted to be compensated. He says UKI offered £30 
which he found insulting, and then £70 whereas he thought compensation of £137  the cost 
of the policy, was fairer. UKI didnt agree, so Mr B asked them to write out to him so he could 
bring his complaint to us.
In their letter, UKI said they didnt think theyd done anything wrong in sending out a 
recovery vehicle, as fixing an alternator beside the road was too dangerous. But did say their 
service was unacceptable. They said their suppliers didnt arrive within the suggested time, 
and there were further delays when Mr B asked for a mechanic to come out, but the job 
hadnt been registered on their systems. In the letter, they rounded up the compensation 
offer from £70 to £75.
Mr B didnt accept this though and asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did 
so, and thought given the delays, confusion and circumstances of this complaint £120 would 
be a fairer amount of compensation.
Mr B agreed with the outcome our investigator reached, but UKI didnt. Across a number of 
responses, they said itd only taken them around one and a half hours to get to Mr B, the 
delays were caused by Mr Bs requests rather than listening to their advice. And under their 
policy terms, which said theyll get there as soon as they can, they felt theyd done that.
Across a number of responses our investigator said that the estimated time of arrival for the 
first portion of the pickup was still breached, and it took several hours after that to get a 
mechanic out. He also didnt think UKI set out their advice as clearly as theyve said they did. 
And he said yes theres no question recovery was the right answer initially, but then there 
were delays UKIs end setting things up which caused the further issues. Each time he 
recommended UKI still meet the £120 payment  but each time UKI said they wouldnt and 
ultimately asked for an ombudsman to consider the case.
Because of that the case has been passed to me to decide, and Mr B wrote to us expressing 
some further concerns over UKIs actions in this case  saying their TV ad says theyre 
experts but theyre not, and he cant believe its been over a year since the issue happened 
and theyre arguing over such a small amount of money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI in their response to Mr Bs complaint said Ive reviewed your file and I can see our 
suppliers didnt arrive within the estimated time of arrival. I can also see there were further 
delays as you requested for a technician to come out to you once we recovered you to a 
service station, but the job hadnt been set up.
And they said The service youve received is unacceptable and our area manager has been 
made aware of this. To help make up for the trouble and upset weve caused, I offered to 
send you a payment of £75 which youve declined.
The evidence Ive seen supports this  from the text messages which set an expected time 
of arrival which werent met, to the internal notes confirming that the job wasnt set up when 
it should have been. Ive thought about UKIs arguments, which do differ quite substantially 
from their response to Mr B, but Im not persuaded by them. I dont think Mr B has done 
anything wrong in the way hes conducted himself in this claim.
I do agree it was right for Mr B, his wife and their car to be recovered to a service station to 
then determine what the issues were. This was done outside of the quoted timescales, and if 
this were the only issue then I may find its reasonable for UKI to rely on their policy terms 
which say theyll get there as soon as they can. But that wasnt the only issue  Mr B and his 
wife were then sat at a service station for considerably longer than they should have been 
had UKI done things properly.
Overall then, Im satisfied compensation is appropriate. I note our investigator has suggested 
£120 which Mr B has accepted, so that seems a fair figure to resolve this issue. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and order U K Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr B £120 compensation in settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman