DRN-3376564
The complaint
Ms S complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to help when she was the 
victim of an investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2020 Ms S was sadly the victim of a scam. At the time she believed she was making 
payments towards an investment with a legitimate trading company that Ill refer to as G. 
But she says she later learned it was a scam. The payments all appeared on Ms S 
statements as going to a merchant that Ill refer to as C. Ms S made three payments on her 
Barclays Visa debit card as a result of the scam:
Date Amount Merchant
7 February 2020 £1,000 C
11 March 2020 £2,250 C
7 April 2020 £3,000 C
When Ms S realised shed been the victim of a scam she reported this to Barclays and 
asked that they help her to get her money back. Ultimately Barclays raised a chargeback for 
the first £1,000 payment (and made a temporary credit to Ms S account) but didnt do so for 
the other payments. The chargeback wasnt defended by C and the temporary credit later 
became permanent. 
Ms S complained to Barclays and later referred the matter to our service. One of our 
Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Ms S disagreed and 
asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
In August 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im intending to reach the same outcome as our Investigator, but for 
different reasons. So, Im issuing this provisional decision to give everyone a further 
opportunity to comment before finalising my decision.
It isnt in dispute that Ms S authorised the payments on her debit card. But banks do have 
obligations to be alert to instances of fraud and scams and to act in their customers best 
interests. There is clearly a balance to be struck between stopping and checking payments 
and allowing customers to freely use their accounts. 
The payments Ms S made as a result of the scam were spread over several months and the 
largest individual payment was for £3,000. Whilst this was more than she typically spent, it 
isnt unusual for people to occasionally make larger payments for one off expenses or 
investments. And having looked at the previous activity on Ms S account, I dont think the 
spending (either individually or collectively) was so unusual that its reasonable to have 
expected Barclays to have intervened at the time. 
There were also no warnings about G from either the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or 
from the International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) prior to all of Ms S 
payments being made. And even if there had been such warnings, C appear to be a 
legitimate crypto-currency exchange. It seems that Ms S payments were converted into 
cryptocurrency before being passed on to G. It wouldnt have been apparent to Barclays that 
there was a potential problem in relation to Ms S payments as theyd have had no way of 
knowing they were ultimately intended for G. 
As I dont think Barclays ought to have intervened when the payments were made, Ive gone 
on to consider if they could have done more to help Ms S get her money back. The only 
option for a potential refund of these debit card payments was the chargeback scheme. 
Barclays are bound by the card scheme providers rules which in this case is Visa. Whilst 
there is no right to a chargeback, I generally consider it to be good practice that one is 
raised if it has a reasonable chance of succeeding. 
I asked Barclays why a chargeback was raised in relation to one payment, but not for the 
others. Their response was that they asked Ms S for some further information in relation to 
the second and third payments. And when Ms S didnt provide the further information that 
had been asked for, no further action was taken. Barclays say they ought to have done the 
same for the first payment. 
I think at this point it would be helpful for me to explain that when a customer asks their bank 
to raise a chargeback one of the first steps would be for the bank to assess the claim and 
decide if it has a reasonable chance of succeeding. This would ordinarily require the bank to 
determine what chargeback code is most applicable (based on what the customer has said) 
and this may lead to them asking their customer to provide further information before 
deciding if the claim is valid under the scheme rules. This request is commonly to ensure 
that the evidential requirements of the scheme are met. If satisfactory evidence is not 
provided it isnt unreasonable for a bank to decide not to take a claim forward on the grounds 
that it doesnt have a reasonable prospect of succeeding.
A chargeback can only be made against the merchant that received the payments (which in 
this case is C). There wouldnt be an option to do so against G. And it seems that C did what 
was asked of them, that is they converted the funds and sent them on to the wallet address 
provided. As such, I dont think there was a valid underlying reason to pursue a chargeback. 
It was G not C who scammed Ms S and refused to allow her access to the funds in her 
account. And I cant say that in these circumstances Barclays not raising further 
chargebacks for the second and third payments was unfair or unreasonable. 
I appreciate a chargeback was raised for the first payment and a temporary refund was 
provided which Ms S got to keep as the claim was not defended. And whilst I can 
understand why Ms S might think that had chargebacks been raised for the further two 
payments, C might similarly have not responded, and she would have had all her money. 
But that doesnt mean Barclays decision at the time of assessing the claims for the second 
and third payment was not a reasonable exercise of its discretion. I cannot find that Barclays 
shouldve raised a chargeback in the hope that the merchant doesnt reply, especially where 
the required evidence to raise a chargeback wasnt available.Im of course sorry to hear Ms S lost such a significant amount to scammers. But as I dont 
think Barclays are responsible for this, or ought to have done more to try to recover the loss, 
Im not intending to tell them they need to do more to resolve this complaint.
Ms S responded with some further comments that Ill address below. Barclays responded to 
say that they accepted the outcome of my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S says that she provided Barclays with further information when asked and she was 
unhappy that Barclays said this wasnt received. She also provided some evidence of 
Barclays request for information from her.
Ive considered this but it doesnt change my mind as to the outcome of this complaint. Ive 
no reason to doubt Ms S testimony that she sent information as requested. But for the 
reasons Ive already explained, Im not persuaded this would have made a difference. 
Had Barclays done a more thorough job of assessing the chargeback claims, Ive concluded 
that they likely still wouldnt have progressed these, as there wasnt a valid claim under the 
scheme rules that could be raised against C. And again, a chargeback against G wouldnt 
have been an option.
This isnt a case where Im saying that because Barclays didnt receive information from 
Ms S, theyve acted fairly by not pursuing the claim. Its more that Ms S was never going to 
be able to evidence a valid claim about C. And even though Barclays disputed one payment 
in error (which ended up being to Ms S benefit), that doesnt mean it would be fair for me to 
tell them to do more based on not repeating that error for the other payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman