DRN-3958640
Complaint
Mr W complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 and section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr W is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background 
In or around August 2018, Mr W was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr W decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In January 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ws behalf under section 75 and section 140 
of the Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr W to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding.
The feed in tariff (FIT) and a savings on energy bills would provide enough income to 
cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr W or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr W and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Mr W didnt agree. He reiterated he was led to believe that the system would be self-funding 
and resubmitted documents including a handwritten note he made from the time of sale. He 
says this showed he purchased the system on the basis that he would be making a profit 
from the system. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
In my provisional decision of 27 January 2023, I set out why I minded to not uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Shawbrook did not respond while Mr W and the CMC 
made some additional comments which I will address below. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr W could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr W and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr W says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, and a handwritten note that Mr W made 
at the time of sale. Ive considered these, along with the consumers testimony and 
recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. This quote includes 
information about a battery storage pack as well as other optional extras Mr W was offered 
by P. I understand Mr W eventually purchased the battery storage pack in cash at a 
discounted price to what was offered to him in the quote, and he also received a refund for a 
boiler doctor after installation when P discovered it wasnt compatible with his system. 
However, the quote still details the information he was given at the point of sale, so I still 
think its relevant evidence. 
So, Ive taken this into account, along with the consumers version of events when 
considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. The cost of the system
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Mr W was told that the cost of the system was £9,940.35. The credit 
agreement sets out that the cash price of the system was £9,940.35. The monthly payment 
was £117.42. The total amount of credit is £9,840.35 (after deducting a deposit of £100) and 
goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £14,178.40.
Having considered all the evidence Im satisfied that the credit agreement made it clear that 
although the cost of the system was £9,940.35, it would cost Mr W more than this as he had 
decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Financial benefits covering the monthly cost 
Mr W has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The what will you earn and save per year? analysis page of the quote sets out the 
estimated income Mr W could expect to receive by way of FIT payments as well as savings 
on energy bills he can expect from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments and savings every year for the first 25 years. Although the FIT scheme only 
provides payments for a 20-year period. Ive included details of the first year for ease of 
reference. 
The table shows that Mr W could expect to receive a total FIT income in year one of £201.75 
(£121.05 generation and £80.70 export), which results in an average monthly income of 
£16.81. The expected year one electricity savings is £292.50. 
Mr W was also offered a range of optional extras and combined with his FIT income and 
electricity savings, his combined first year income was £1,090.81, which resulted in a 
monthly return of £90.90 
Im satisfied that the credit agreement set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment 
due of £117.42 (which works as annually as £1,409.04).  His total year 1 income and 
savings of £1,090.81 is as significantly less than the annual cost of his loan (£1,409.04). His 
expected monthly return of £90.90 is also less than his monthly cost of £117.42. So Im not 
able to conclude that the consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT payment and additional savings. 
The sales quotation document offered Mr W a solar panel system as well as a battery 
storage pack. It therefore sets out the finance cost of both the system and the battery 
storage pack. I understand Mr W eventually chose to pay for the battery storage pack in 
cash rather than through finance  however at the time of sale, he was given information 
about the combined cost of the system as well as the battery storage pack. And I think thats 
important to consider when deciding whether its likely he was led to believe that the system 
would be immediately self-funding during the sale. 
The total combined monthly cost of the system and the battery storage pack is shown as 
£145.13 in the quote. This table shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of 
£145.13. For each year of the 10- year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the 
system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan 
repayment of £145.13, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
This shows there would be a significant shortfall between the income and savings Mr W 
could expect to achieve and the cost of the system  which supports my finding above, that I 
dont think its likely he was told the FIT income and additional savings would cover the 
monthly cost of the system. 
Mr W has also sent in a handwritten note of information he wrote down during the sales 
meeting below. 
As you can see, it seems he was told that the combined cost was around £145, and the 
estimated total income and savings was around £90.90. This results in a monthly deficit of 
around £54. 
Overall, I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr W could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. And it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. 
Overall, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would be 
self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson likely went through the quote 
at the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected 
monthly return and the monthly loan repayments.
Self-funding during the term of the loan
However, I do accept that Mr W was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The what you will earn and save? page of the quote has a table detailing the performance 
over 25 years. This shows that by year 10 (which is within the loan term) the overall benefits 
that Mr W could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the 
loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr W that the system would pay for itself by 
year 10, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
So, Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with 
the contract between P and Mr W. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3080.19 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Ws FIT statements and can see what the solar panels are generating on 
average annually. Im satisfied that the system is performing at around the expected level of 
performance. 
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have 
been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think explain why he hasnt been 
receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since 
actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved 
through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr W couldve expected to receive 
from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as 
estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mr W entered into the contract.
I would add that Im aware that the utility prices have recently increased significantly for most 
consumers, and it may be that Mr W finds his electricity savings will be significant going 
forward. While the financial returns he has been expecting have been lower in the past, it 
may be that that over the lifetime of the system the benefits will increase, and the system will 
eventually achieve what he was expecting.
But overall, I think the underlying assumptions used to calculate the estimates were 
reasonable at the time. So I dont think these figures constitute a misrepresentation. 
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A of the Act. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under s.140.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr W to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
The CMC and Mr W disagreed with my provisional decision for the following reasons: 
The CMC reiterated that Mr W was sold the system on the basis that it would be self-
funding.
The CMC highlighted that the repayment table suggests the system would be self-
funding from year 8 but this is not true. 
Mr W also pointed out that his savings havent materialised, and his current bills are 
likely to go up. 
The CMC has added that the technical information provided was confusing, and 
Mr W would not have installed a system at his cost if he was to gain no financial 
benefit from the system. 
As explained in my provisional decision, I accept that Mr W might not have received the 
financial returns he may have been expecting from the solar panels and the system might 
not have performed over time in line with the way P estimated. However, I have to bear in 
mind that the information given to Mr W regarding the performance of the system over the 
term of the loan and the lifetime of the system, were estimated and not guaranteed. And I 
have already explained that I think the estimated benefits shown in the quote were based on 
reasonable assumptions. 
I do not think that the system producing lower benefits constitutes a misrepresentation where 
that is due to FIT and energy unit rates not increasing as much as expected, or Mr W not using as much electricity from the solar panels as predicted by P at the time of sale. I 
reiterate that the way P formulated the estimates were based on reasonable assumptions at 
the time they were made, and I dont think that constitutes a misrepresentation. 
Ive also explained that I dont think its likely that the system was sold on the basis that it 
would be self-funding. While there was a lot of information contained in the sales documents, 
based on what we know of Ps sales processes, I think its likely that the sales representative 
went through the quotation document with Mr W. Mr Ws handwritten record mirrors the first-
year figures  which suggests he was able to understand the information he was given. I do 
appreciate Mr Ws strength of feeling regarding this issue, but my view remains unchanged 
from that set out in my provisional decision for the same reasons. 
Mr W has also pointed out that P tried to sell him two optional extras, one was taken off as it 
didnt suit the system. The other was actually sold to him and installed but subsequently also 
removed. I understand Mr W was given a refund of £600 for this. Mr W says P ought to have 
been aware that these extras werent right for him. While I share his concerns, it does look 
like he was given a refund for the optional extra that was sold to him, so I dont think 
Shawbrook needs to do anything to put things right now. And this doesnt affect my overall 
view of his self-funding complaint. Without the optional extras, I think its apparent that the 
savings associated with them wouldnt be achieved. But even with the optional extras, the 
sales document still shows the system would not be self-funding in the way Mr W says he 
was led to believe it would be. 
Summary 
I have carefully re-considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint and Im 
still satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr W to 
enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint. So overall, Im satisfied that Shawbrook did not act unreasonably or unfairly for 
not accepting the claim.
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman