DRN-2697109
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc has given him misleading information about a 
debt.
What happened
Mr H says Bank of Scotland has given him misleading information about a debt and who 
owns it. He says he received a cheque for £50 but without a clear explanation about what it 
was for. Mr H says he called Bank of Scotland and it told him it had bought his debt back 
from a third-party business. He says he has no idea if he owes money and or to whom.
Bank of Scotland says it doesnt have a record of giving Mr H misleading information and 
has paid him £50 as a gesture of goodwill. It says it wrote to Mr H in 2015 to tell him it had 
sold his debt to a third-party business and that company owns the debt. It also says that 
company also wrote to Mr H to tell him it bought the debt and how much was owed. 
Mr H had brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Bank of Scotland and the third-party business had both written to Mr H 
with information about the loan and how much was owed. The investigator thought if Mr H 
had been given misleading information by the third-party business then he would need to 
raise that with it.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says he didnt receive the letters in 2015 and maintains 
he was told the loan had been bought back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. 
I have looked at the letters sent to Mr H by Bank of Scotland and the third-party business in 
2015. Im satisfied that they both make clear that the debt was sold, and the amount owed 
was just over £3,419. I appreciate Mr H says he didnt receive those letters. But Im satisfied 
they were sent, and I cant fairly hold Bank of Scotland responsible for the safe delivery of 
the mail or if an old address had been used if Mr H didnt update it.
I have not seen any evidence that Bank of Scotland has bought the debt back or that it told 
Mr H that. If Mr H was told by the third-party business the debt had been bought back, then 
he will need to raise that issue with that business. In any event I dont think it is a significant 
issue as it seems Mr H does now know how much he owes and hasnt made any 
repayments since 2015 to either business.
Overall, I cant fairly hold Bank of Scotland responsible for any incorrect information a 
separate business may have given Mr H. Im satisfied Bank of Scotland has told us it doesnt 
own the debt and that its acted fairly by paying a gesture of goodwill payment in 
circumstances where I dont think there is any evidence of a mistake.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman