DRN-2247664
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint is about Al Rayan Bank PLC (ARB) not automatically providing him with 
an annual certificate of profit and the time he spent waiting on calls trying to make contact.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr T set up a fixed-term deposit account with ARB in 2019. At that time, he says he 
was told that he would receive an annual certificate of profit automatically. I have 
looked through the conditions of the account and this isnt included and so I cant say 
that it was a requirement on ARB to deliver this under the account conditions. 
I dont have further evidence of the information discussed when Mr T opened the 
account, but ARB has explained that at that time it was providing an annual 
certificate of profit automatically. Mr T has explained that he needs the certificate for 
his accounts and so, on balance, I accept his testimony that this was discussed. As 
the certificates were being provided automatically at that time, I cannot say Mr T was 
given incorrect information about this.
ARB has provided copies of its internal communications document which states that 
a certificate of profit would no longer be sent automatically from 2020 and instead 
would be provided on a request-only basis. While I appreciate that this change meant 
Mr T had to request a copy of the certificate, I do not find I can say ARB did anything 
wrong by changing its approach to this. 
There is no evidence to show there was an external communication regarding this 
change and so I accept that Mr T wasnt informed. While I appreciate ARBs 
comments about this change occurring due to many customers no longer needing 
the certificate, as Mr T did want this and had been told when he set up the account 
that it would be provided automatically, I accept this was frustrating for him. However, 
as he received the certificate on the day this was requested, and this was in line with 
the policy, I do not find I can say Mr T was treated unfairly.
Mr T wants to be compensated for the issue with the certificate of profit and the time 
he spent on calls trying to get through to ARB. In regard to the certificate of profit, as 
I do not find that I can say ARB did anything wrong by changing its approach 
regarding how these were provided, and Mr T was treated in line with ARBs policy, I 
do not uphold this part of Mr Ts complaint and so do not require compensation to be 
paid for this.
There is conflicting evidence about how long Mr T had to wait on calls. ARB has said 
that the average call times on the day Mr T requested the certificate and the day 
before were 8 and 10 minutes respectively. Mr T said he had to wait a lot longer. 
While I do not dispute that Mr T had to wait to get through to ARB, and I understand 
this must have been frustrating, I do not find that compensation is required in this 
case. I say this because I have no evidence to show Mr T suffered a financial loss or 
any material distress due to the time he spent on calls. He was then provided a 
certificate of profit on the day he requested.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Al Rayan Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman