DRN-3233915
The complaint
Mr H complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) sold some 
of his shares without his permission and hes suffered a loss as a result of having to 
repurchase these. 
What happened
Mr H held some US shares in his HLAM investment account. HLAM contacted Mr H via 
secure message on 2 and 18 December 2020 to let him know he needed to complete a US 
Internal Revenue Service form by 31 December 2020. HLAM explained that if he failed to do 
so then it would sell his shares in the US company.
Mr H says he tried clicking on the link in the emails in order to complete the form but neither 
link worked. As Mr H failed to submit a new form by the deadline, HLAM sold his US shares 
on 1 February 2021.
Mr H complained to HLAM as he was unhappy that it sold the US shares without giving him 
a final warning email or phone call. Mr H subsequently completed the from and repurchased 
the US shares on 2 February 2021. He requested that HLAM refund him the losses incurred 
as a result of having to unnecessarily repurchase them.
HLAM didnt uphold his complaint. It said it requires all its customers to complete the form in 
order to hold US shares and this was explained in its terms and conditions hed agreed to 
when opening his account. As the form expires every three years, HLAM requires customers 
to complete the form prior to expiry. HLAM said its terms and conditions confirms that if 
customers dont submit the form before the date specified, it has the right to sell the US 
securities held.  HLAM also explained that Mr H has registered to its paperless service, 
meaning his preferred method of contact was via secure message and so it was satisfied 
that it contacted him in line with his set preference. 
Mr H didnt agree with HLAMs findings and so he brought the complaint to our service for an 
independent review. One of our investigators considered Mr Hs complaint but didnt think 
HLAM had acted unfairly. In summary she said:
Mr Hs account is on an execution only basis and so it was his responsibility to 
monitor his investments. 
HLAMs terms and conditions made it clear that it would require an appropriate US 
Internal Revenue Service form if Mr H held US securities and that it had the right to 
sell those if a form wasnt completed before the date specified. 
She was satisfied HLAM had contacted Mr H in line with his contact preferences and 
that he had received and read the secure messages. 
The messages didnt appear to include a link to click in order to access the form. 
Rather, they explained he needed to go back to My accounts and dealing then 
select the Account settings tab, then select Share dealing and live prices and follow 
the instructions on-screen.
The messages gave a deadline of 31 December 2020 and so he ought to have 
contacted HLAM prior to this date. She acknowledged that he said he did attempt to 
call but couldnt get through. However, she wouldve expected him to have made 
more attempts as it was his responsibility to complete the form on time.
She also noted that although the deadline was 31 December 2020, HLAM waited an 
additional month before selling his US shares and so he had a longer period of time 
to complete the form. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view. In short, he said:
Whilst he accepts HLAM had previously provided a deadline, the deadline had 
passed a month before it sold his US shares and so it failed to provide a final warning 
before doing so.
The message he received from HLAM having sold the US shares said to contact it if 
there has been a mistake, which he did immediately.
The main loss hes suffered is due to HLAMs own transaction fees and so, at the 
very least, it should refund these fees. 
The investigator considered Mr Hs additional points, but her opinion remained unchanged. 
She said HLAMs fees were made clear to him and so it was fair for it to charge these. She 
also didnt think hed been treated unfairly by HLAM giving him an additional month to 
complete the form. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings. Ill explain why.
HLAMs terms and conditions which Mr H agreed to when opening his account clearly 
explained that the relevant US form was required:
You must sign the appropriate US Internal Revenue Service form (which we will 
supply on request) and submit it to us before we accept a trade from you for 
securities listed in the US. If you have not previously provided us with a valid form, 
and you already hold US securities, you must complete a form.
The terms and conditions also made it clear what actions HLAM could take if the form wasnt 
completed:
If you do not submit the form before the date we specify (usually 30 days) we 
reserve the right to sell US securities held in your Account.
HLAM has provided a copy of the messages sent to Mr H and I can see that it gave a clear 
warning that it would sell his US shares if he failed to renew the required from before 31 
December 2020. I understand Mr H says the link in the emails didnt work, however, the 
emails did clearly provide instructions on how to submit a new form without the need to click 
on the links. And so Im satisfied Mr H knew when the deadline was, how he could go about 
submitting a new form and what the consequences would be if he didnt do this by 31 
December 2020. 
Mr H says HLAM should have given him a final warning and/or contacted him phone before 
selling his US shares, however I dont agree. It had already provided the deadline twice 
which he failed to adhere to. I also dont think it needed to call him as his preference of communication was set to secure message. Ultimately, as Mr H holds an execution only 
account with HLAM, its his responsibility to manage his investments and I dont think it 
would be fair to hold HLAM responsible for any costs associated with him not doing so. This 
includes any fees associated with him having to repurchase his US shares. This is also 
explained in HLAMs terms and conditions: 
You are responsible for ensuring you are, and continue to be, eligible to hold your 
chosen investments. You should make yourself aware of any restrictions on holding 
or trading your chosen investments, whether those restrictions are imposed by law, 
the issuer or provider of an investment, or otherwise. If you fail to dispose of 
investments you are not eligible to hold or are otherwise required to sell within any 
applicable timescales, we reserve the right to dispose of any such investments from 
your Account without notice. You will be responsible for any costs and expenses 
associated with such a disposal and we will not be liable for any loss you suffer as a 
result.
Whilst its unfortunate that Mr H didnt complete the necessary forms within the deadline 
provided, I think HLAM has acted fairly and in line with its terms and conditions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman