DRN-3316959
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned down his loss of rent 
insurance claim. 
Mr L has been helped in bringing this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
actions and comments as being those of Mr L. 
What happened
Mr L held a property owners insurance policy with Allianz. He looked to claim on the loss of 
rent section of the policy after being impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response 
to the pandemic. 
Allianz declined Mr Ls claim. It said the core loss of rent cover and some of the extensions 
only provide cover where there has been damage to property and Covid-19 didnt cause 
damage to property. It said that while the policy provides cover for a specified list of 
illnesses, Covid-19 isnt one of the illnesses listed. 
Unhappy with Allianzs response Mr L brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think Mr Ls policy provided cover for the circumstances of his claim. 
Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He didnt think the investigator had 
considered the impact of the judgments in Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Business 
Interruption Insurance test case on his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr L. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Property owners policies offer protection from a number of risks, but different policies can 
provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the policy terms and 
conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if Allianz has acted 
fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining       
Mr Ls claim.
Damage
The core loss of rent section says that it covers loss of rent in consequence of damage. The 
policy defines damage as:
Loss or destruction of or damage to Property Insured at Premises used by the 
Insured for the purpose of the Business
There is also extension for denial of access which covers business interruption or 
interference due to loss, destruction or damage to property in the vicinity of Mr Ls 
premises which hinders or prevents access to his premises. 
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property at Mr Ls 
premises, or to property in the vicinity of his premises which prevented or hindered 
access to them. So these parts of the policy dont provide cover. 
Specified illnesses
The extension for specified illnesses covers business interruption or interference in 
consequence of any occurrence of a specified illness occurring at Mr Ls premises. The 
list of specified illnesses doesnt include Covid-19. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of illnesses. But there were similar policies on the market that 
provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which covered all 
notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Mr Ls policy is not 
like this  it sets out a defined list of the illnesses which are covered. And there is nothing in 
the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new illnesses which 
might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new 
illnesses and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Mr Ls claim.
Action of Competent Authorities - Denial of Access - Non-Damage
This extension covers business interruption or interference in consequence of:
Access to the Premises or any property or rights of way in the immediate vicinity 
of the Premises being hindered or prevented as a result of the actions or advice 
of the Government a Local Authority or other statutory body due to an emergency 
arising which is likely to endanger life or property
Cover is excluded under this for Any consequence of labour disputes infections or 
contagious diseases or drought.
In reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account, is the relevant law.
I think the High Court judgment in the FCA test case is relevant to Mr Ls complaint because 
the High Court considered a similar term to that within Mr Ls policy and this part of the 
judgment wasnt appealed.
Paragraph 376 of the judgment says:
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in
the 21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under
either [this type of] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of
the premises.
I see no reason to depart from the position reached by the High Court. I think Mr Ls 
premises closed as a result of Covid-19, which the World Health Organisations website 
describes as an infectious disease.Mr L has referred to the FCA test case but whether the claim should be paid still depends on 
the terms and conditions of each policy. And in this case the outcome of the test case 
doesnt impact Mr Ls claim.
I recognise this isnt the answer Mr L was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Allianz to pay his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman