DRN-2818515
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited unfairly declined their 
home insurance claim for storm damage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N made a claim for storm damage after their chimney collapsed and damaged 
the roof below. They believe the chimney collapsed due to the weight of snow.
Lloyds appointed a surveyor, who declined the claim. He reported there wasnt any storm 
damage to the chimney or roof, but rather, the chimney mortar had deteriorated.
Mr and Mrs N provided their own report from a roofing contractor. He concluded the damage 
was due to recent adverse weather. He noted the remaining brickwork and mortar is all to a 
good standard, and the remaining structure doesnt indicate the collapse was due to mortar 
issues. He thought moisture build up had frozen and expanded in unforeseen areas, which 
had caused the collapse. He thought the chimney had been maintained within the last 20 
years; and he didnt think it would have been subject to a lot of weathering, due to its 
position.
Lloyds still thought the chimney had collapsed due to the deterioration of mortar, rather than 
a one-off storm event. However, it paid Mr and Mrs N £75 for the service they had received 
during the claim.
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Ns complaint, but he didnt think it should 
be upheld. Because Mr and Mrs N disagreed, their complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained by our investigator, there are three conditions that need to be met before this 
service would say a claim for storm damage should succeed. Those are: 
was there a storm?
is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?  
I have re-assessed Mr and Mrs Ns complaint and all the evidence with these three 
questions in mind.
Mr and Mrs Ns policy defines storm as: strong winds with gusts of at least 55mph,
sometimes accompanied by rain; and/or hail or snow of such intensity or weight
that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Having checked weather records for a month before the incident, there were no such winds 
recorded at a nearby weather station. Nonetheless, Ive seen from pictures and local news 
reports that there was relatively heavy snowfall in the area at the time of the collapse. 
However, Im not persuaded a chimney without any pre-existing issues would collapse from 
the weight of snow, unless the level of snowfall was particularly extreme. The photos of the 
snow provided by Mr and Mrs N dont persuade me the level of snow was so significant, it 
could plausibly cause structurally sound brickwork to collapse.
Mr and Mrs Ns report also concluded the collapse was likely caused by moisture freezing 
and expanding within unforeseen areas. In my view, this supports Lloyds conclusions. As 
I understand it, moisture can enter and freeze within poorly maintained mortar, expanding 
and thawing, causing the mortar to gradually breakdown over time. Both reports point 
towards this being the cause, and such gradual damage is specifically excluded by 
Mr and Mrs Ns policy.
Having considered the reports, and photos of the snow, on balance, I consider it likely the 
mortar had deteriorated over time and this was the main cause of the chimney collapsing. 
So, whilst I accept the weight of the snow was a contributing factor, Im persuaded the 
snowfall simply highlighted an existing problem that isnt covered by the policy. 
Mr and Mrs N have pointed towards guidance and case studies on our website relating to 
gradual damage, wear and tear, and accidental damage. However, that information isnt 
relevant to the circumstances of their claim. Ill explain why.
We generally dont consider it fair for an insurer to rely on a gradual damage policy exclusion 
if the insured couldnt reasonably have been aware of the problem. But importantly, this only 
applies if the gradual event is an insured event, such as water escaping from a pipe. Im not 
persuaded the mortar deteriorated due to one of the insured events listed in Mr and Mrs Ns 
policy, so our approach to gradual damage doesnt apply in their case. 
Mr and Mrs N argue the damage should be covered if it was caused by wear and tear. Such 
damage is specifically excluded by their policy, but they point towards a storm damage case 
study on our website. However, the case study simply highlights we were more persuaded 
on that occasion, that the main cause of the damage was the storm, rather than wear and 
tear. Whats important here, is that Im persuaded the main cause of the damage was the 
deterioration of the mortar, rather than the weight of the snow. Had the mortar been in a 
good condition, I consider it unlikely that the snow would have caused the chimney to 
collapse. 
Mr and Mrs N have also pointed towards an accidental damage case study on our website. 
That case study relates to accidental damage to underground services, rather than the 
general accidental damage coverage thats often an optional extra on home insurance 
policies. So, the case study doesnt apply here.
Mr and Mrs N also havent taken out the optional accidental damage cover, so thats not a 
consideration either. In any event, we generally dont consider the gradual breakdown of 
materials to be accidental damage, as its a maintenance issue rather than a sudden 
incident. The damage caused by the falling chimney may have been covered under 
accidental damage if they held this cover, but not the chimney itself.
So, in conclusion, whilst I accept Mr and Mrs N werent aware there was a problem with their 
chimney, Im not persuaded Lloyds unfairly declined their claim. I also havent been told 
anything that would lead me to increase the £75 compensation already paid.My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs N. But for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman