DRN-4237145
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund in full money he lost 
when he fell victim to an investment scam.
Mr F is being represented by solicitors in his complaint.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties. The facts about what 
happened arent in dispute. As such, Ill only provide an overview and focus on giving my 
reasons for my decision.
Between September and November 2020, Mr F sent just over £65,000 in a series of 
payments to what he thought was an investment opportunity. He eventually realised hed 
been scammed. 
Transaction Date Amount
Payment 1 9 September £3,000
Payment 2 24 September £8,200
Payment 3 15 October £14,000
Payment 4 26 October £15,000
Payment 5 18 November £25,000
Total amount £65,200
Barclays declined to refund Mr Fs losses initially but offered a partial refund after he 
complained. Barclays didnt think the first two payments were out of character for the 
account activity, but it accepted it could have prevented Mr Fs losses from payment three 
onwards. It therefore refunded payments three to five along with interest, making a 
deduction for the two credits totalling £2,611.43 that Mr F received directly from the 
scammer.    
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our investigators concluded that the 
refund Barclays had already paid was fair. Mr F didnt agree, so his case came to me for a 
decision. I wrote to Barclays informally and explained that I intended telling it to refund the 
second payment as well as I considered it ought to have flagged as unusual based on 
previous spending activity on the account. I also thought that the interest which Barclays had 
added to the transactions it had already refunded ought to be calculated from the date of the 
transaction, not from the date it originally declined Mr Fs claim.
Separately, I provided an update to Mr Fs representative on how I intended proceeding with 
this complaint. They acknowledged the update and said Mr F agreed my findings were fair.
Barclays disagreed that payment two was out of character and said Mr F had made a 
payment for a higher amount in the months prior to the disputed transaction. And so, it didnt 
think payment two was that unusual. With regards to the interest calculation, Barclays said it 
understood my findings. I wrote back and explained that the payment for a higher amount 
which had been highlighted wasnt made from the account that the scam payments were 
made from. So, I didnt think it was relevant here. I havent heard back from Barclays, so its 
appropriate for me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has already acknowledged that had it sufficiently probed Mr F when he authorised 
payment three, the scam would have been uncovered and further losses prevented. But I 
think it should have intervened even earlier. Looking at the account statements, it seems that 
majority of the large-value transactions the investigator took into consideration for 
determining usual account activity were transfers between Mr Fs own accounts. For the 
purposes of account monitoring for fraudulent or suspicious activity, I wouldnt consider first-
party transfers in the same way as payments made to a third party.
Discounting inter-account transfers, the only other large-value payment within the 12-month 
period leading up to the disputed transactions was a payment for £30,000 to a firm C 
19 August 2020. I dont consider a one-off transaction on its own to sufficiently represent a 
pattern of account spending behaviour. Besides, from the information Ive seen, that 
payment was made in connection with another, unrelated, scam that Mr F fell victim to. And 
Barclays reimbursed his loss (minus the amount that was recovered from the beneficiary 
bank).
After reviewing the account activity, I find that the payment for £8,200 on 24 September 
2020 in connection to the scam being considered in this complaint was out of character and 
ought to have flagged to Barclays as unusual. So much so, that I think it should have paused 
it pending further enquiries. I appreciate the bank believes that payment isnt unusual given 
Mr F made a payment of £14,000 from another account only a few months earlier. But as 
explained in my previous correspondence with Barclays, when deciding whether a disputed 
transaction was unusual or out of character, our service looks at activity on the account the 
transaction was made from. This is in keeping with the BSI code which makes reference to 
the account when giving examples of what constitutes as suspicious activity.
Barclays already acknowledges that a suitable intervention during payment three would have 
uncovered the scam. I think a suitable intervention just a payment earlier would have had the 
same result. And Im persuaded that Mr F would have stopped in his tracks. So, I think 
Barclays can be held liable for payment two as well. 
I dont think a deduction for contributory negligence is warranted for this additional payment. 
At the time, Mr F didnt know the payment he made to C was a scam. So, I wouldnt have 
expected him to have been more vigilant due to being a recent victim of scam. That means, 
a fair outcome in this case would be for Barclays to refund the second payment in full, along 
with interest.
Regarding interest, I note that Barclays has calculated it from the date it declined to provide 
a refund to the date of settlement. As Barclays acknowledges, the payments arent covered 
under the CRM Code. So, its unclear why it has deviated from the usual approach of 
calculating interest from the date of transaction to the date of settlement. Barclays has since 
said it understands my finding in relation to this matter, so I dont need to comment any 
further on it. 
 Putting things right
Barclays has already refunded payments three to five, making a deduction for the two credits 
that Mr F received directly from the scammer. It now needs to refund payment two as well.
Barclays has already paid 8% simple interest per year on the payments it has refunded, 
calculated from the date it declined Mr Fs claim to the date it paid the settlement. As 
explained, I think a fairer outcome here is for it to calculate interest from the date of 
transaction of each refunded payment to the date of settlement. 
That means, Barclays Bank UK PLC needs to:
(A) refund the second payment,
(B) pay simple interest at 8% per year on that amount (A), calculated from the date of 
transaction to the date of settlement,  
(C)  for payments three to five, pay the difference between the amounts due had interest 
been calculated from the date of each transaction  rather than the date of the claim 
being declined  to the date when the payment was originally made, 
(D) pay 8% simple interest on that amount (C), calculated from the date the refund was 
originally paid to the date of settlement. This is to compensate Mr F for not having 
access to this additional amount during that period. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK 
PLC needs to put things right for Mr F as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman