DRN-3326766
The complaint
Miss B complains that J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly gave 
her two running account credit facilities that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 6 May 2017, Miss B applied for a credit account with J D Williams under the trading 
name of Simply Be. She was given an initial credit limit of £175. The credit limit was 
increased six times by May 2018 to £2000. 
On 1 September 2017, Miss B applied for a credit account with J D Williams under the 
trading name of Fashionworld. She was given an initial credit limit of £175. The credit limit 
was increased six times by May 2019 to £2100.
 
In 2021, Miss B complained to J D Williams to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that J D Williams ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before increasing her credit limits.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss B didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
J D Williams will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases of credit 
and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the specifics into question, so, I 
dont intend to cover them off here. 
Miss Bs complaint is that J D Williams made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Miss B has not been able to provide 
any bank statements from the times in question. J D Williams has explained that it carried 
out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to 
offer. Its possible that J D Williams failed to make adequate checks before providing Miss B 
with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused J D 
Williams to think the initial credit limits or the credit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limits were modest and the maximum monthly 
payments for that credit were also relatively modest. There were missed payments early 
on in the life of the accounts, but they were for very small amounts, when the credit limits 
were also small. But subsequently through all of the credit increases the accounts were 
well managed, the payments were mostly above the minimum amounts required 
(sometimes substantially so) and Miss B was not using anything close to the full credit 
limits available to her. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss B to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led J D Williams to think that the credit it 
provided Miss B was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Miss B was 
managing her account or what J D Williams could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Miss B will be disappointed with my decision and I was sorry to read about the 
difficulties of her personal situation. But I want Miss B to know that I listened to all the 
submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman