DRN-4363872
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service provided to him by Vodafone Limited (Vodafone) in 
respect of a fixed sum loan agreement (agreement) he entered into with it for a mobile 
phone handset (phone).
What happened
On 12 April 2023 Mr C entered into an agreement with Vodafone for a phone costing 
£841.00. Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr C undertook to 
make an upfront payment of £739.00 followed by 24 monthly payments of £4.25  making a 
total repayable of £841.00 at an APR of 0%.
On 17 April 2023 Mr C contacted Vodafone to say that he had received the phone but the 
box seal was broken which was of a concern.
On 21 April 2023 Vodafone issued Mr C with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of 
this FRL Vodafone said that as Mr Cs choice of handset wasnt in stock for an exchange he 
could either keep the phone or return it for a refund. Vodafone also offered Mr C a £20.00 
grocery voucher by way of compensation.
On 22 April 2023 Mr C settled his agreement by paying Vodafone £102.00.
In May 2023, and unhappy with Vodafones FRL, Mr C complained to our service.
In July 2023 Vodafone confirmed to our service that it was prepared to add £50.00 to Mr Cs 
Vodafone account by way of further compensation.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that in all 
the circumstances Vodafones offer (of a £20.00 grocery voucher and a £50.00 account 
credit) was both fair and reasonable.
Mr C didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall outcome as the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has 
already been said.
Mr C paid for the phone using a fixed sum loan agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement, and our service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of 
agreements and the goods supplied under them.
Its not in dispute that Mr C received a phone in a box with a broken seal. So, all I need to 
decide in this case is what Vodafone should have to do to fairly and reasonably compensate 
Mr C for this fact, having regards to both Vodafones legal and regulatory obligations.
Now I can understand why Mr C would have been unhappy to receive his phone in a box 
with a broken seal. But based on what both parties have said and submitted, and given Ive 
seen nothing that would lead me to conclude the phone was anything other than brand new 
and hadnt - in any way - been compromised I can confirm that Im satisfied that the offer 
Vodafone made to Mr C under cover of its FRL was a fair one, that being Mr C could keep 
the phone or return if for a refund. Im also satisfied that this offer was made to Mr C by 
Vodafone in good time.
Its my understanding that Mr C decided to wait for his choice of phone to come back into 
stock, despite Vodafone saying under cover of its FRL that As the [phone] is out of stock, 
were unable to exchange [it] and we advise we dont have a date of restock at this point. 
And then, some three months later, decided that he would like to return the phone for a 
refund.
Now in some cases I might find that a consumer taking three months to decide they would 
like to take up a business offer for the return of an item (and for a refund) shouldnt mean 
the loss of that right. But in this case Vodafone submits the phone is no longer in a new or in 
an unused state. Now I accept that Mr C says he has done nothing other than switch the 
phone on. But having considered what both parties have said and submitted on this point I 
can confirm that I find Vodafones submissions the more plausible and the more persuasive. 
In other words, Im satisfied that more likely than not the phone is no longer in a new and 
unused state and Vodafone need not have to accept its return (for a refund).
Having said the above, I accept that receiving a phone in a box with a broken seal would 
have caused Mr C a degree of distress and inconvenience. But Im satisfied that Vodafones 
offer of a £20.00 grocery voucher and a £50.00 account credit for this to be entirely 
appropriate in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Vodafone Limited, to the extent it hasnt done so already, must 
provide Mr C with a £20.00 grocery voucher and a £50.00 account credit.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman