DRN-4057625
The complaint
Mr E complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) irresponsibly gave 
him a loan account that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In 2020, Mr E took out a loan for £1,500. The loan funds were paid to reduce the overdraft 
on a current account.
In 2022, Mr E complained to Halifax to say that the account shouldnt have been opened 
for him because it wasnt affordable and that Halifax ought to have made a better effort to 
understand his financial circumstances before doing so. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint should not be upheld. Mr E didnt agree. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Es complaint is that Halifax made credit available that was unaffordable. But in this case 
Halifax was not providing additional credit. In this case Halifax arranged a loan of £1500 to 
help Mr E reduce his existing overdraft. Halifax has explained that the APR on the overdraft 
was 49.9% and the APR on the loan was 19.5%. And the loan provided a clear repayment 
vehicle for the existing borrowing.
In any event, I dont see the provision of the loan as evidence solely of new credit being 
provided by Halifax, adding to an already pre-existent amount of personal borrowing. 
Instead, rather than the new credit adding to Mr Es burden of credit, it looks like Mr E was 
taking steps, that could be termed sensible, to manage his existing debt by taking out this 
loan and using it to secure more favourable terms to existing credit. I say that because it 
looks as if Mr E would have been saving money on interest he would have been paying 
elsewhere as well as giving himself a definite repayment vehicle for existing running debt. 
So, it doesnt seem automatically unreasonable for Halifax to have facilitated that.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr E to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that the 
credit provided by Halifax to Mr E was unreasonable. 
I know that Mr E will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr E to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman