DRN-3323295
The complaint
Mr H complains that Chiltern Consultancy Limited (Chiltern) provided him with incorrect 
information when it gave him advice on his pension savings. He says that, as a result of the 
incorrect information, he will need to pay additional charges for further advice.
What happened
Mr H approached Chiltern in 2019 to provide him with advice on his pension savings. At that 
time Chiltern identified that Mr H held six separate pension plans, four of which provided him 
with the option to make use of a guaranteed annuity rate when he retired.
Some time passed before Mr H decided to formally engage Chilterns services, and he 
signed an agreement to use the firm in January 2020. At that time Chiltern agreed that it 
would charge Mr H on the basis of the work that it had done. It estimated this work would 
take between 14 and 18 hours, but said that it would get back in touch with Mr H if it became 
apparent that further time might be needed. The scope of the work had been set out for Mr H 
in an email sent the previous August. Essentially Chiltern agreed to provide a report for Mr H 
setting out some potential retirement options, and advising on how he might best fit his 
potential retirement income to his circumstances.
Chiltern provided its financial planning report to Mr H in April 2020. Essentially that report 
recommended that Mr H should combine three of his pension plans into a new single 
pension scheme. One of the plans that was recommended for transfer contained a 
guaranteed annuity, but Chiltern explained in the report why it recommended that Mr H gave 
up that benefit. As I will explain below Chiltern didnt make any formal recommendations 
regarding the other three pension plans, all of which held guaranteed annuities.
It seems, from the discussions that Mr H had previously held with Chiltern, that he intended 
to use some of his pension savings to provide a secure income in his retirement. It appears 
sensible that he would use those plans with the guaranteed annuity rates for that purpose. 
But Chiltern identified that, if it acted as servicing agent for those plans, rather than providing 
advice on them, it would receive a higher commission payment from the annuity providers. It 
agreed with Mr H that it would use those commission payments to offset part of the hourly 
fees he would need to pay.
The report that Chiltern provided to Mr H did give him details of its investigations into the 
benefits offered by the pension plans offering guaranteed annuities. But there was an error 
in the information provided about one of those plans. Although the report correctly showed 
the annual income the pension would provide to Mr H, it stated that income would be paid 
monthly, rather than the correct annually. Mr H says that he relied on that information, and 
had he been aware of the actual payment frequency he would have asked Chiltern to 
provide advice to include that pension plan into the consolidation exercise.
In April 2020 Chiltern says it advised Mr H that it was approaching the previously agreed 
limit of the hours worked. It says it told him its revised estimate was between 19.5 and 20 
hours. Chiltern says that it ultimately ended up charging Mr H for 19.75 hours of its time, 
although it notes that it didnt charge for some aspects of its work, and a greater proportion 
of the work than had previously been expected was performed by a more junior (and 
therefore cheaper) member of staff.
In July 2020, having completed the initial project, Chiltern sent a copy of its timesheet to 
Mr H. It provided him with details of the commission it had received from two of this pension 
plans that had been put into payment and received his agreement for the remaining charges 
to be deducted from his new consolidated plan. But it appears Chiltern made an error in that 
calculation by underestimating the commission it had received by £1.17. I can see that 
amount has now been refunded to Mr H together with a further 64p to cover the lost 
investment growth.
As Ive explained, the work that Chiltern had undertaken had not included a review of the 
remaining pension plan on which it provided incorrect information. It says that, had that plan 
been included in its original advice, the cost estimate, and actual costs incurred, would have 
been higher  it says that it only gathered basic information. So Chiltern didnt think the error 
it had made in the original report meant that the advice it had given to Mr H was 
inappropriate, or that he had paid for work that hadnt been performed correctly or needed to 
be redone. So Chiltern didnt think it needed to do anything to put things right for Mr H but it 
offered him an ex-gratia payment of £50 to reflect the inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr H didnt accept Chilterns offer and brought his complaint to us. It has been assessed by 
one of our investigators. He thought that, had Mr H wanted to include the additional policy in 
the advice that Chiltern provided, he would have needed to pay more for the report that was 
produced. He thought those additional costs would have been broadly similar to what Mr H 
would need to pay now to receive advice on that pension plan. And he thought that the 
ex-gratia payment Chiltern had offered Mr H was reasonable. Our investigator didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld.
Mr H didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr H and by Chiltern. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.It doesnt appear that Mr H has made any complaint about the suitability of the advice he 
received regarding the transfer of three of his pension plans (including one plan with a 
guaranteed annuity) into the new scheme. So the suitability of that advice in itself wont form 
part of my considerations in this decision. But, since Mr Hs complaint relates in part to the 
cost of that advice, its provision will be something that I consider in this decision.
There was a lengthy period of time between Mr Hs initial discussions with Chiltern and him 
providing his agreement to the work being done. But it seems that delay was acceptable to 
both parties, given that it appears Mr H was taking his time to ensure that he was satisfied 
with the work being proposed, and that it was competitively priced. Following their first 
meeting, in August 2019, Chiltern provided Mr H with a relatively detailed outline of the work 
it was proposing to carry out, and an estimate of the likely costs. And it was the content of 
that email that was used as the basis of the work covered by a fee agreement Mr H signed in 
January 2020 giving Chiltern the authority to commence the work.
In the initial stages, there was no clear agreement about which pension plans would be used 
to provide a secure income (although it was noted these were expected to be the plans 
containing guaranteed annuities), and those that would be transferred into a new plan to 
provide flexible income. Those decisions would be based on the results of the analysis that 
Chiltern was providing.
Chiltern provided its financial planning report to Mr H in April 2020. That report clearly set out 
the recommendation that three (out of six) of Mr Hs pension policies be combined into a 
new plan with the intention of them being used to provide a flexible income in retirement. 
And the report also clearly set out that the remaining three pension plans  all of which 
provided guaranteed annuity rates  would not form part of the consolidation exercise.
Chiltern accepts that it provided some incorrect information in that report. It told Mr H that 
one of the three remaining pension plans would provide him with a monthly income  when 
the guaranteed annuity rate actually only applied to annual income payments. But, given, 
that information was only provided for background, and didnt influence the 
recommendations that Chiltern gave to Mr H, I cannot see that error means the advice 
provided in the report should be considered unsuitable.
At the same time as it provided the report to Mr H, Chiltern says it told him that it would 
exceed the hours it had previously estimated for the work to be completed. And I can see 
that, in June 2020, Chiltern reiterated to Mr H that it had already exceeded the original 
estimated hours. But given any lack of objection to those messages, it seems to me that 
both Chiltern met its obligation to make Mr H aware of any over-run on its estimated time for 
completion, and Mr H accepted those additional costs.
By not providing formal advice in its planning report regarding the three pension plans that 
were to be used to provide a guaranteed income for Mr H, Chiltern says that it increased the 
amount of commission it would be paid by the providers, and so reduced the balance that 
Mr H would need to pay for its advice. I clearly have no way of knowing whether that 
statement is true  the rates of commission will be commercially sensitive and not something 
that I can easily explore. But I think it would be reasonable to conclude that it is unlikely that 
the commission Chiltern received would be less than it would have been if it had provided 
advice to Mr H. So, given that I am not considering here whether the advice Chiltern 
provided was suitable (since Mr H hasnt complained about that), I dont think Chilterns 
decision to not advise on the three pension plans has caused Mr H detriment in terms of the 
commission it earned.
Mr H says that, had Chiltern correctly identified that one of the pension plans he retained 
would pay income annually, he would have asked for that plan to be included in the consolidation exercise. He says that Chiltern told him that he would be charged for a further 
six hours of work if that was now to be done.
I think the first thing I should consider here is that there is no certainty that Chiltern would 
have recommended that this plan be consolidated. The guaranteed annuity rate it offered 
was well in excess of that provided by the plan it did recommend Mr H consolidate. And, 
given the additional regulatory burden a recommendation regarding guaranteed benefits 
places on a firm, I think it reasonable to conclude that it is unlikely that work could have been 
completed within the original cost estimate (even after it was revised to a higher figure).
So, whilst the incorrect information Chiltern provided about the payment frequency might 
have caused Mr H to take a different decision, I cannot see that it has led to him incurring 
additional costs. I think that, had Mr H indicated he wanted to consolidate that pension plan, 
the cost over-run would have been far higher, and most likely at a similar level to the 
additional six hours that Chiltern subsequently estimated for the work.
I understand why Mr H is frustrated with the error in the report he received from Chiltern. He 
did have a reasonable expectation that information he was given would be correct and had 
been carefully checked. But for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think that error  
and the potentially different decision Mr H might have made  meant that the charges he 
would need to pay are higher. I can see that Chiltern offered Mr H an ex-gratia payment of 
£50 to reflect the inconvenience hed been caused. I think that level of payment is in line with 
what I would think appropriate here. I understand that offer remains open to Mr H and he 
should contact Chiltern directly if he now wishes to accept it.
As I explained earlier, Chiltern made a small error when it calculated the charges it would 
need to collect directly from Mr Hs consolidated pension savings. Ive not seen anything to 
persuade me there was any deliberate intention to defraud Mr H by that mistake. Instead it 
appears to me that a figure that was rounded for ease of communication, was not corrected 
when the final calculations were performed. I can see that, once it was made aware of the 
error, Chiltern refunded the difference to Mr H, and added a sum to reflect the investment 
returns he would have lost. I dont think I need to take any further action on that error. 
In summary I think that Chiltern met its agreement to keep Mr H informed of any changes to 
the time it was likely to take to make and implement its recommendations in relation to his 
pensions. I think that the planning report it provided to Mr H in April 2020 made it clear that 
three of his pensions would be excluded from the consolidation exercise. And although 
Chiltern did provide some incorrect information in that report, I dont think that meant Mr H 
will incur additional costs in dealing with the potential transfer of those pension benefits.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award 
Chiltern Consultancy Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman