DRN-4389330
Complaint
Mr E has complained about a personal loan Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco 
Bank) provided to him. 
He says that he doesnt think that significant or proportionate checks were carried out 
bearing in mind the amount he was lent.
Background
Tesco Bank provided Mr E with a loan for £19,500.00 in November 2017. 
Mr Es loan had an APR of 10.3% and a term of 62 months. This meant that the total amount 
to be repaid of £25,176.60, which included interest, fees and charges of £5,676.60, was due 
to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £419.61. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr E and Tesco Bank had told us. And she thought 
that Tesco Bank hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr E unfairly. So she didnt 
recommend that Mr Es complaint be upheld. 
Mr E disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Es complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Tesco Bank needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Tesco Bank needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr E could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Tesco Bank says it agreed to Mr Es application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and Mr Es bank statement which he was asked 
to provide. In its view, all of this information showed Mr E could afford to make the 
repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr E has said he should never have been provided with this loan 
because of his existing financial position.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr E and Tesco Bank have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Tesco Bank clearly asked Mr E to provide documentary 
evidence to support his application. So I dont think that this was a case of Tesco Bank 
simply accepting an over-optimistic declaration of monthly disposable income at face value.
Tesco Banks credit searches also did show that Mr E had some existing debts. But its fair 
to say that these werent excessive and that they were being reasonably managed. 
Furthermore, having looked at the bank statement Mr E provided to Tesco Bank at the time, 
I cant see anything obvious on it which indicated Mr E wouldnt be able to make the 
repayments to this loan. 
Indeed, the information gathered appeared to suggest that Mr E had the disposable income 
to be able to make the repayments required here, particularly if he consolidated his existing 
debts in the way that he said he intended to. Equally as this was Mr Es first loan and there 
wasnt a history of Mr E applying for loans from Tesco Bank and the failing to consolidate his 
debts as he said he would, Im satisfied that it was reasonably entitled to believe that it 
wouldnt be increasing Mr Es existing indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. 
I appreciate that Mr E has disputed the accuracy of Tesco Banks checks given it recorded 
him as being a homeowner and hes provided evidence to show he was instead paying rent. 
But even if Mr E was paying rent, I dont think that this means that Tesco Banks checks 
werent proportionate or that it shouldnt have lent. I say this as it took a bank statement from 
Mr E and this showed that he had sufficient funds to cover his regular expenditure and this 
loan. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Tesco Bank did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mr E - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Tesco Bank treated Mr E unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Es complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr E. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman