DRN-3158675
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, has complained about the way AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited dealt with a group insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S, who is a director of P, brings the complaint on its behalf. 
Mr S asked his broker to move the group healthcare insurance policy from another provider 
to AXA in 2019 on no worse terms than the previous policy.
AXA provided a quote which was accepted by Mr S and cover began in 2019. 
In 2020, Mr S contacted AXA as he needed treatment relating to knee problems. But AXA 
confirmed an exclusion relating to his knees had been applied to the policy. 
Mr S complained to AXA as he hadnt been made aware of the exclusion at the quotation 
stage. Unhappy with its response to his complaint, Mr S referred the complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think AXA had done anything wrong. He 
said AXA had highlighted the possibility of exclusions being added and had also sent the 
certificate outlining the exclusion to Mr S.
Mr S disagreed and said AXA failed to send information about the policy to him in a timely 
manner. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules say a business must give clear, fair and not misleading 
information when selling an insurance policy. 
Mr S broker emailed AXA and confirmed P required cover on no worse terms than the 
previous policy. AXA provided a quote and asked for an application form to be completed. 
AXA confirmed the policy would be on a continuing medical exclusions basis. But the 
application form asked further questions about any treatment within the last 12 months and 
any treatment planned or pending. Mr S answered yes to these questions. 
The application form said:
If youve answered NO to both questions above and overleaf you are eligible to join 
with continued medical exclusions (CME). This means that you can carry over the 
same medical underwriting terms as youve had under your present insurer subject to 
the terms and conditions of the AXA PPP Healthcare plan. If you answered YES to 
either question, then we may in some cases include new medical exclusions.
AXA confirmed members of P would be covered on temporary wording whilst it waited for 
the previous insurance certificates. AXA then reviewed the previous certificates and the 
application form and added an exclusion relating to Mr S knees.  This was confirmed in the 
membership certificate sent to Mr S in August 2019. 
Mr S didnt raise any concerns relating to this exclusion until he needed further treatment, in 
2020. AXA said had Mr S raised concerns sooner, it could have cancelled the policy. It also 
spoke with the previous insurer who said Mr S could have re-joined for up to 6 months after 
leaving.  
Overall, I dont think AXA did anything wrong by adding an exclusion and Im satisfied it gave 
enough information for Mr S to decide whether the policy was suitable. AXA confirmed the 
exclusion when issuing the certificate and I havent seen any evidence to show Mr S raised 
any concerns with AXA at the time. 
As a result of the above, unfortunately for Mr S, his claim wasnt covered. Im satisfied AXA 
clearly explained in the application form that further exclusions could be applied if Mr S 
answered yes to the medical questions. 
Mr S says AXA didnt send the policy information to him in a timely manner. AXA issued the 
insurance certificates around 3 weeks after receiving the previous insurers certificate. AXA 
has explained the policy information was sent on 22 August 2019 and although it took longer 
than it would have liked, the previous insurer confirmed Mr S would have been able to re-join 
for up to six months after leaving. The delay in issuing the policy documents hasnt caused 
any loss or detriment and so I dont think AXA needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman