DRN-1934037
The complaint
Mrs B is complaining about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) processed an 
early repayment charge (ERC) refund following a relationship breakdown.
What happened
In late 2019 Mrs Bs relationship ended and the property she owned with her ex-partner was 
sold. Halifax charged an ERC when their joint mortgage was repaid. Mrs B became aware 
that her ex-partner was porting their previous mortgage product to buy a property with a new 
partner, which meant the ERC would be refunded.
In late January Mrs B spoke to Halifax to ask for half of the ERC to be refunded to her. She 
says she was told to expect a refund in about 3-5 days. But on 27 January Halifax sent her a 
letter asking for her permission to refund the ERC to her ex-partners sole account.
Mrs B called Halifax again. She said shed prefer half of the refund to be paid directly to her, 
but it could also be paid to the joint account she held with her ex-partner which she still had 
access to. The adviser said he would ask for this to happen, but when it became clear this 
may take some extra time to approve and process Mrs B agreed that the full amount should 
be paid to her ex-partners account to stop things being held up.
On 3 February Halifax sent a letter addressed to Mrs Bs ex-partner and their new partner, 
which congratulated them on their new mortgage and said the ERC would be refunded in 3-5 
days. The refund was processed on 6 February to Mrs Bs ex-partners sole account.
Mrs B says that because Halifaxs letter about the refund had been addressed to her ex-
partner and their new partner they thought the full ERC belonged to them. This led to her 
having difficulty getting her half of the ERC back which delayed the work she needed on her 
new home. She complained to Halifax, who paid her £205. It said £200 was because she 
was given incorrect advice in her first call, and because the letter with information about the 
ERC refund was incorrectly addressed. The extra £5 was for the cost of her calls.
Mrs B didnt think £205 was enough to fairly compensate her for the mistakes, so she 
brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint. She thought £205 was fair, in the 
circumstances. Mrs B didnt agree. She said she incurred further costs because of the delay 
in getting her share of the refund that she wants to be considered. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold Mrs Bs complaint, because like the investigator I 
think the payment Halifax has already made is fair. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Halifaxs process for refunding ERCs. Although it sets out that the refund 
should usually be made to both borrowers for a joint mortgage, I think it was reasonable in 
these circumstances for Halifax to have sought the agreement of both Mrs B and her ex-
partner about where the refund should be paid. 
Halifax has explained that Mrs B was given incorrect information during her first call to it 
about the ERC refund, although its been unable to find a record of the call. But it accepted it 
told Mrs B a refund would be made directly to her in 3-5 working days. From the notes of the 
conversation Halifax had with Mrs B about this when she complained I can see the adviser 
explained that the refund couldnt be made until the new mortgage had completed, although 
it couldnt share any more information about when this was as it didnt relate to Mrs Bs 
account. But from what was discussed between Halifax and Mrs B I think its unlikely the 
new mortgage had completed at the time of Mrs Bs first call. So it looks like Halifax gave 
Mrs B incorrect information about how soon she could expect the refund to be processed.
Its clear Mrs B would have preferred her half of the refund to be made to her or to the joint 
account, but ultimately in the conversation on 30 January she did agree that the full payment 
could be made to her ex-partners account. So, I cant say that Halifax did anything wrong 
here because it made the payment as instructed.
I can understand why Mrs B was upset that the letter including information about the ERC 
refund was addressed to her ex-partner and their new partner. The letter assumes that the 
parties taking the new mortgage are the same as on the original mortgage, which obviously 
wasnt the case. Halifax has apologised for its error here. But it is also clear in the letter that 
the ERC refund applied to the original mortgage. I think that Mrs Bs ex-partner should have 
known the ERC refund referred to in the letter was from the mortgage with Mrs B and not the 
new mortgage. 
So, I dont think I can reasonably say this letter led directly to the difficulties Mrs B says she 
had in obtaining her part of the refund from her ex-partner. I think its possible these 
difficulties would have arisen anyway once the full amount had been paid to Mrs Bs ex-
partner. So, I dont think Halifax should be responsible for any further costs Mrs B incurred 
while she was waiting for her ex-partner to send her half of the refund to her.
Overall, I can see Halifax has made some mistakes which it should compensate Mrs B for. It 
initially gave Mrs B incorrect information about when to expect the refund and where it would 
be paid to, and it incorrectly addressed a letter containing information about the refund to 
include Mrs Bs ex-partners new partner. But I dont think the refund took an unreasonable 
amount of time to be processed, and I cant conclude Halifax did anything wrong by paying 
the refund to Mrs Bs ex-partners account because Mrs B had agreed to this. 
With this in mind I think the £200 Halifax has already paid for the trouble and upset caused 
by its errors, along with £5 for the cost of calls, is fair and reasonable, and in line with 
awards we would make in similar circumstances. So Im not going to ask it to do anything 
else.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint, for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020. 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman