DRN-1060912
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
mortgage in 1998. Ms J and Mr J say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms J and Mr Js case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Halifax had to make it clear to Ms J and Mr J that they had a choice 
about it. But Ms J and Mr J say it wasnt made clear to them that the PPI was optional.
Halifax has sent us a copy of Ms J and Mr Js application form for the mortgage. This 
included a section on PPI with a space for them to sign if they wanted to take it out. And 
Ms J and Mr J have both signed in the space.
Halifax has also sent us a copy of a separate PPI application form, signed by Ms J and Mr J.
Based on this, I think Halifax did make it clear to Ms J and Mr J that they had a choice about 
the PPI. And that Ms J and Mr J chose to take it, knowing they didnt have to.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Ms J and Mr J, so it had to check that it was right for them. 
And, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, they dont appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than theyve told us they wouldve been 
entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve meant they didnt need to rely on their savings to 
make their mortgage repayments if either of them wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for them, Halifax had to give Ms J and Mr J clear information 
about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave them wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment and Ms J and Mr Js property couldve 
been at risk if theyd failed to make their repayments. So I think they couldve found the 
protection the policy offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think it was right for 
them, it seems like the PPI would have been useful for Ms J and Mr J if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put them off taking it out.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman