DRN-1773273
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has declined his critical illness claim. 
What happened
On 30 October 2017 Mr F commenced a job with his new employer. On 7 November 2017, 
he took out a critical illness policy through his employers benefits page. 
Sadly, in February 2018, Mr F was diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis (MS). He made a claim 
to Aviva in March 2018. In June 2018 Aviva reviewed the claim but decided to decline it. It 
said Mr F was suffering symptoms of MS in November 2017 which fell under its associated 
conditions exclusion and were linked to his later diagnosis. 
Mr F was unhappy with this decision, so he made a complaint. On 20 May 2019, Aviva sent 
its final response letter upholding its decision not to accept the claim. It said it was satisfied 
Mr Fs cover began on 1 December 2017 as this is what his employer had selected. It added 
that it felt Mr Fs symptoms in November 2017 were linked to his subsequent diagnosis of 
MS. And any symptoms that commence prior to cover starting and are linked to an illness 
diagnosed within the first two years of the policy are excluded. 
Mr F remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said he had been 
treated unfairly because he had asked for the policy in November 2017 and only became 
aware he had MS after the policy had started. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint, but he decided not to uphold it. He said that in 
November 2017 Mr F had seen his GP with sensory disturbances more than once and he 
was referred to a Neurologist with a family history of MS being noted. He added that he felt 
the evidence showed Mr Fs cover started in December 2017. So, he said it was fair for 
Aviva to decline the claim.
Mr F disagreed. He felt it was unfair that his claim had been declined on an interpretation of 
the early onset of his symptoms. 
So, this complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr F feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Firstly, I was sorry to read about Mr Fs diagnosis. Im sure this has been a very difficult time 
for Mr F and his family. Id like to assure Mr F that Ive read all the points he has made, but I wont be commenting 
on everything that hes mentioned. Ill be concentrating on what I think is important to the 
outcome of this complaint.
Mr Fs policy excludes any critical illness in respect of which any associated conditions 
existed (whether diagnosed or not) at any time prior to the cover start date. 
So Ive first considered when Mr Fs policy began. I note he began his employment in 
October 2017 and selected his cover on 7 November 2017. But from the evidence Ive seen, 
his actual cover under the policy began the next month on 1 December 2017. This is 
because the agreement his employer has with Aviva is for cover to begin the month after 
cover is selected. So, Im satisfied Aviva has correctly said Mr Fs cover began on
1 December 2017. 
So, I now need to consider whether Aviva has fairly concluded that the symptoms Mr F 
experienced in November 2017 are associated with his later MS diagnosis. 
Associated conditions under MS are listed in the policy as follows:
Any form of neuropathy, encephalopathy or myelopathy (disorders of functions of the 
nerves) including but not restricted to the following:
-abnormal sensation (numbness) of the extremities, trunk or face/weakness or clumsiness of 
a limb/double vision/partial blindness/ocular palsy/vertigo (dizziness)/difficulty of bladder 
control/optic neuritis/spinal cord lesion/abnormal MRI scan.
In the claim form completed by Mr F, it says he experienced the initial symptoms of back and 
kidney pain on 30 November 2017. This is supported by the form completed by his GP which 
confirmed he had presented to his previous GP in November 2017 with pins and needles in 
his lower limbs before being referred to a Neurologist on 30 November 2017. So Im 
satisfied, from the medical evidence Ive seen, that his symptoms fall within the associated 
condition above and first presented before his cover began. 
Mr F has said Avivas decision is unfair. I can understand the point he is making here, and I 
do sympathise with the situation he finds himself in. But the reason for the above exclusion 
and conditions is that new entrants to an employer critical illness scheme are not 
underwritten when they join.  An insurer is entitled to protect itself from claims where a new 
member is suffering from an existing illness. And applying conditions such as this is standard 
practice for these types of policies which this service feels is not unfair. Aviva must make 
sure it treats all its customers fairly by applying these conditions consistently when it 
considers claims such as this. So, Im afraid I dont agree Mr F has been treated unfairly by 
Aviva.
So, Im not going to ask Aviva to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman