DRN-2346899
The complaint
This is a complaint that St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Miss G. St Andrews didnt actually sell the PPI, but its taken responsibility for it, so 
Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2004. The policy started a short 
while after Miss G applied for the card, and St Andrews says it was sold by phone. Given 
the dates of the PPI and card application, I think thats probably correct. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Miss G has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why.
I think its likely the PPI was offered as a choice  I say that because we do have some 
information about St Andrews sales practices around this time, and I dont have any 
evidence to suggest it wasnt offered in this way. 
St Andrews has treated this as though it was an advised sale  that is, that it 
recommended the PPI as suitable for Miss Gs individual circumstances. In such a case, 
wed hold it to a higher standard of practice, and check the recommendation was suitable. 
But I dont think a recommendation would have been unsuitable from what Ive seen of 
Miss Gs circumstances. The PPI could have helped pay the credit card bill for a period 
longer Miss Gs employment sick pay, and shes said she didnt have savings to fall back on 
to pay her living costs. And it would have paid out at the same time as any sick pay or 
redundancy pay, so leaving her more financially secure for longer. 
Miss G has told us about a long-term medical condition shed had since childhood. But it 
seems this was controlled, didnt cause her difficulties in her day to day life, and she hadnt 
sought medical advice on it for some time. So I think its unlikely shed have expected to 
make a claim arising from that medical condition. And shed still have the benefit of cover for 
other conditions.
So, overall, the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  And I 
cant see any other reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its hard to know how well St Andrews explained all the costs, benefits and restrictions. But I 
think it unlikely that better information would have made the PPI seem less useful to Miss G 
in her situation at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman