DRN-3041336
The complaint
Mr H complains Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) hasnt dealt with his claim 
on his buildings and contents insurance policies fairly following a fire at his home. He says 
the standard of repair work was poor and there have been unacceptable delays. Hes 
complained this, together with being given inappropriate alternative accommodation has 
caused him significant stress and upset. As a result of how Lloyds has settled the claim, 
Mr H says hes lost out financially.
Mr H also has concerns about damage to his furniture and a guarantee for the work done. 
But that is being dealt with as a separate complaint. 
References to Lloyds includes its agents.
What happened
Mr H has a buildings insurance policy and a separate contents policy. For the purposes of 
this decision, Ill refer to them as one policy. In February 2018, Mr H made a claim on his 
policy as his house suffered a fire causing severe smoke and fire damage. The claim was 
accepted the next day and a personal claims consultant (PCC) was instructed.
Around a week later, contractors were instructed to start works and Mr H found somewhere 
for him and his family to move to nearby. Over the course of the claim, the assigned PCC 
changed twice  the first retired and the second because Mr H wasnt happy with how he 
was managing the claim. And in May 2018, a new contractor firm was appointed as the 
previous contractor went into administration.
In July 2018, after the property had been cleared, the scope of repairs was agreed. But as it 
seemed no further work happened after that point, Mr H raised a complaint with Lloyds in 
January 2019. He was unhappy as his council tax exemption was due to end the following 
month and works still hadnt finished. So hed be paying council tax for a property he wasnt 
living in. Lloyds said it would cover the council tax paid for the alternative accommodation.
Around April 2019, Lloyds told Mr H it thought it could complete the repairs before the 
alternative accommodation contract ended. But it extended the accommodation anyway. As 
the rental property Mr H and his family were already in was no longer available, Lloyds 
arranged something else. The internal notes weve been given say Mr H was willing to 
downsize but his main requirement was to stay near to where they were already.
Lloyds has given us its internal notes and emails between Mr H, the PCC and other parties 
involved in the claim. In these emails, Mr H regularly explained he was unhappy about the 
standard of the contractors repair work and he asked for updates and site visits. The 
contractors complained Mr H had delayed things by redoing their work.
Mr H raised around four complaints about delays; the standard of the repairs and further 
damage caused by the contractors; poor customer service and communication; the 
competence of the PCC and the contractor; and the suitability of the alternative 
accommodation he and his family moved to around June 2019.
In its final response letters, Lloyds apologised for the delays and the lack of updates and 
offered Mr H a total of £2,650 as compensation. It said it would move the claim along and 
whilst it accepted some of the repairs werent to an acceptable standard, it thought the 
contractor had done what it could to put this right. Lloyds arranged for a different manager 
from the contractor firm and PCC to work on the claim.
Around February 2020, Mr H provided a list of 300 snagging issues he thought were still 
outstanding. He also complained the contractors had damaged his front door and the kitchen 
had been installed poorly. Lloyds didnt accept it had damaged the door but it offered cash 
settlements for the snagging issues and the kitchen. Mr H accepted these offers but now 
says they werent enough.
In March 2020, although it thought Mr Hs house was habitable, Lloyds extended the 
alternative accommodation again due to the Coronavirus Pandemic preventing him from 
returning home. Mr H told our service he was able to move back to his property in July 2020.
As things werent resolved, Mr H asked our service to look into things. Our investigator 
upheld the complaint. He thought Lloyds had caused unacceptable delays and the quality of 
work wasnt good enough. He thought Lloyds should cover Mr Hs council tax bill for his 
property and asked Lloyds to pay him a total of £1,050 for the stress and inconvenience the 
delays and smaller alternative accommodation had caused him.
The parties didnt accept our investigators view. Mr H didnt think the amount awarded for 
the alternative accommodation was enough. Lloyds said Mr H was happy with the alternative 
accommodation at the time but it offered another £200 for not looking into that part of his 
complaint when he raised it. It also thought itd done enough to respond to and act on Mr Hs 
concerns throughout the claims process. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2021. I explained I thought the 
complaint should be partially upheld in summary because:
Whilst I understood the length of time Mr H and his family had been out of their home for 
was considerable, I could only hold Lloyds responsible for unreasonable delays and 
inconvenience over and above whats usual for this type of claim. 
I didnt think Mr H needed to take time off work to project manage the claim. And 
whilst I appreciated he felt very concerned about his property, I didnt think the level of 
contact he had with Lloyds was necessary  and had some impact on delaying things.
There were times Lloyds didnt appear to progress things  for example, from July 2018 
to February 2019. And I didnt think Mr H shouldve needed to complain to keep things 
moving. But I thought the compensation Lloyds had already paid was fair. 
I thought Lloyds shouldve covered the cost of similar alternative accommodation taking 
into account the location, size and type of property Mr H owns. But it didnt need to be a 
like for like property. And I thought Lloyds was willing to work with Mr H to find alternative 
accommodation that was right for him.
I understood why Lloyds arranged the alternative accommodation it did in April 2019 
when the first contract expired as it seemed the priority for Mr H was the location of the 
property and not the size. Whilst Mr H couldve raised concerns about the alternative accommodation sooner than 
he did, I thought Lloyds not looking into that part of his complaint wouldve impacted him 
for longer than it needed to. I didnt think the offer Lloyds had made to make up for this 
was enough. And instead, I thought it should pay him £500. 
Had Mr H been living in his own home, he wouldve had to pay council tax at the 
higher band. So I didnt think this was a loss or additional cost to him. And if Lloyds 
covered it instead, it would put Mr H in a better position financially than he would have 
been in if the fire hadnt happened. 
I thought it was fair Lloyds had agreed to cover the council tax bill for the alternative 
accommodation as that wouldve been the additional cost to Mr H  whether its in the 
same band or not. 
I thought it was reasonable Lloyds had agreed to pay a cash settlement for the snagging 
issues Mr H had identified considering the history of the claim. 
Lloyds based its cash settlement for the snagging issues on a quote Mr H had provided  
and I didnt think it was unreasonable to expect he wouldve got more than one quote. So 
I didnt think it would be fair to direct Lloyds to pay more now that Mr H had found the 
repair work was costing more. 
I didnt think Lloyds should cover the cost of the damage to Mr Hs front door as I was 
satisfied the photos showed it was already damaged before the contractors arrived at the 
property on the day it was discovered. And I could see Mr H had previously accepted he 
or his contractors might have done it. 
I didnt think Lloyds was responsible for any damage that happened to the property 
outside of its control while it was working there. 
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. Lloyds 
didnt make any further comments but asked me whether Mr H had accepted the decision. It 
also asked me to clarify whether the £500 Id told it to pay was in addition to  or instead of 
the offer it had previously made of £200. Mr H said he was unhappy with parts of my 
provisional decision. In summary he said:
The compensation Lloyds had already paid covered the service it provided until 
September 2019. But its service didnt improve after that time. So he thinks further 
compensation should be paid for October 2019 until July 2020 on a pro-rata basis. 
The compensation Ive suggested should be increased to £900 to mitigate the cost of the 
higher band of council tax he had to pay whilst not living in a larger property. 
Insurance is to protect the policyholder from financial loss. But hes been left out of 
pocket due to Lloyds poor workmanship. So it hasnt protected Mr H from financial loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive thought carefully about the comments Ive received. Whilst I appreciate the offer of 
around £2650 was paid to Mr H in September 2019, Ive looked at everything thats 
happened as a whole  and everything Lloyds has done to put things right  before deciding 
whether it needs to do anything more. And as I explained in my provisional decision, this 
covers everything that happened until Mr H moved back home  including the customer 
service he experienced throughout the claim. Ive also thought about the impact Mr Hs 
actions had on the progress of the works when weighing things up.
Having considered everything again, Im satisfied the compensation Mr H was paid, 
alongside the works Lloyds did to rectify things when theyd gone wrong, was enough. 
I can understand why Mr H feels he should be compensated  at least in part  for the 
council tax bill he had to pay in the higher band whilst he was living in a property in the lower 
band. But property insurance is designed to cover additional losses beyond the 
policyholders normal expenses if the insured event didnt happen. If the fire hadnt 
happened at Mr Hs property, he wouldve needed to pay the higher band of council tax. 
I understand Mr Hs point that he was living in a smaller property at the time  so he feels 
hes lost out as he was paying council tax for a larger property but not benefitting from living 
in one. But I think this happened because Lloyds was trying to meet his requirements around 
the location of the alternative accommodation as that seemed to be his priority. In any event, 
the loss Mr H suffered due to the size of the accommodation was the inconvenience and 
disruption to his family life. And I think the compensation Ive suggested makes up for this. 
Mr H has said hes been left out of pocket from this claim. But from everything Ive seen, Im 
satisfied Lloyds either put the works that had gone wrong, right  or paid Mr H a cash 
settlement to ensure he didnt suffer a financial loss. And that cash settlement was based on 
what he told Lloyds it would cost him to carry out the repair works. So I dont think it would 
be fair at this stage to direct it to pay more, particularly when I dont have enough evidence 
to say the additional cost to Mr H was due to anything Lloyds had done wrong.
So overall, having looked at the responses Ive received, I havent changed my conclusions 
set out in my provisional decision. And I think Lloyds should pay Mr H £500 for the trouble 
and upset he experienced from living in the smaller alternative accommodation from when 
he first raised a complaint about it around September 2019 until he was able to move back 
home. This is instead of the £200 it had already offered but hasnt yet paid.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and direct Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Ombudsman