DRN-3826343
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund £50,000 that he lost in 
2015. Mr M believes he lost the money as the result of a scam that Santander couldve 
prevented at the time.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in September 2022 to explain why I thought Mr Ms complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. This is 
an extract from that provisional decision:
Mr M believes he has been the victim of a scam. 
In 2015, Mr M was persuaded to invest £50,000 into the company he worked for at the time. 
Mr M has said the directors of the company, who he had been friends with since around 
2003, had told him that he would receive shares in the company and a return of around 
£110,000 in two years time. However, shortly after Mr Ms investment, the company 
unfortunately went into liquidation and Mr M saw no returns on his investment. 
Mr M now believes he has been the victim of a scam. He says no shares were ever allocated 
to him on Companies House as he had been promised. Mr M has told us he did initially 
pursue the directors of the company through the courts but was unable to retrieve any funds 
as they had declared themselves bankrupt.
Mr M then raised the matter with Santander. In summary, Mr M told Santander that he 
believed that he had been scammed and that Santander should now offer him a refund of 
the amount lost. Santander looked into the concerns that Mr M had raised but it declined to 
offer Mr M a refund as it believed Mr Ms circumstances amounted to a private civil dispute 
between him and the directors of the company in question. 
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr M brought his complaint to our service and one of 
our investigators looked into things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He also considered this to be a civil dispute 
between Mr M and the directors of the company. He said that, generally, investment fraud 
involves unknown individuals and fake companies. The victim generally doesnt know the 
person they are speaking with and any proposed investment tends not to exist. However, in 
this case, Mr M knew the directors of the company and had a long-standing working 
relationship with them. Mr M was an employee of the company he was investing in, so it did 
exist, and was trading legitimately. And so he felt that what happened to Mr M wasnt a scam 
but more likely, an investment gone wrong. Overall, our investigator thought it was 
reasonable that Santander had treated Mr Ms circumstances as a civil dispute. And he 
agreed that this appeared to be a bad investment - the company in question had ultimately 
failed and this had led to the loss of Mr Ms funds, rather than this being an elaborate scam 
from the outset. 
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He maintained that he had been scammed 
and said he knew of others who had also lost money. Mr M said that the £50,000 payment 
he had made in 2015 had gone to one of the directors personal accounts and Santander 
had failed to tell him this at the time. Mr M said had it had done so; he would not have 
continued with the payment. 
As an agreement has not been reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this and this simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
So, having thought very carefully about Santanders actions, Im not intending to uphold Mr 
Ms complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can 
fairly say Santander should reimburse him. Ill explain why. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr M, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that his money should be returned to him - its understandable for such a significant 
sum. I also understand why Mr M feels he has been the victim of a scam. But not all cases 
where individuals have lost significant sums are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam. 
Its clear the agreement Mr M entered into did not go as planned and Mr M did not receive 
the shares or the returns that he had been promised. However, in order to be satisfied that 
Mr M had been the victim of a scam, Id have to be satisfied that the directors of the 
company were intent on defrauding him from the outset and Im not satisfied that I can say 
that is most likely what happened here. I say this because there appears to be a number of 
factors that dont carry the typical hallmarks of these particular types of scam or of fraudsters 
with an intention from the outset to defraud:
Typically, investment scams involve a fake investment and/or a fake company and 
generally, the victim has no prior relationship with the fraudster other than the 
relationship built to discuss the investment itself. In this case, Mr M had known the 
directors of the company personally since 2003 and he had a long-standing working 
relationship with them which resulted in him becoming an employee of the company 
now in question here. There is no suggestion that this company was anything other 
than legitimate. And Im persuaded that the circumstances put forward by Mr M more 
likely lend themselves to an investment that went wrong  Mr M invested in the 
company he worked for but the company became unsustainable and was liquidated 
soon after - it therefore wasnt possible for Mr M to receive what he had been promised. 
It is not possible to say now, some seven years later, whether the company directors 
knew that when they took the payment from Mr M that the company would soon go 
into liquidation. And so, based on the evidence Ive seen, it would not be reasonable 
for me to say that it was more likely than not that the directors set out to scam Mr M. 
I understand that Mr M raised the matter with Action Fraud but Im not aware of any 
ongoing investigations, by it, or any other authority, which would lead me to safely 
conclude there was an intent to defraud here. I do understand that Mr M has 
communicated with others, who have also said they didnt get what they paid 
for/expected to. However, this in and of itself, isnt enough for me to safely say there 
was an intent for the company directors to defraud him. 
I also have to bear in mind that Mr M has pursued the company directors through 
the civil courts. I understand that this did not result in the return of Mr Ms funds. 
However, the mere fact that he pursued this as a civil matter rather than a criminal 
matter suggests that this is exactly what it is  a civil dispute. 
So, after taking everything into careful consideration, on balance, I cant safely say this 
meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. Rather, this appears to be a 
case of a bad investment in a company that was ultimately liquidated resulting in none of the 
expected shares and returns. This being the case, I dont think Santander have treated Mr M 
unfairly in not pursing this as a scam. 
I understand that this outcome is likely to seem unsatisfactory to Mr M and so for 
completeness, I also wanted to address his points about Santander having been able to 
prevent him from making the payment at the time. To be clear, even if I had been satisfied 
that Mr M had been the victim of a scam here and I had assessed Santanders actions in 
processing the payment against the relevant obligations at the time, I still dont think this 
would have resulted int the outcome Mr M wanted  the return of the funds. 
I say this because, at the time, in 2015, Santander wouldnt have been aware that Mr Ms 
funds were being transferred to a personal account, not a business account. This is not a 
check that wouldve been carried out prior to the payment being approved. And even if 
Santander had discussed the payment with him, its likely that Mr M wouldve told Santander 
that he was investing in the company he worked for and that hed known the directors for 
many years. This was the truth after all. 
Having been provided with this information and being satisfied that Mr M had an existing 
relationship with the people he was speaking to and the company was legitimate, there 
would have been no reason for Santander to block the payment. And so, it seems likely that 
the payment wouldve been processed at Mr Ms request. There wouldve been no indication 
at the time that anything untoward was happening.
And so Im not currently minded to ask Santander to refund the money Mr M has lost, as I 
dont think Santander have done anything wrong in treating his circumstances as a civil 
dispute. And I dont think there was anything else Santander could have done to prevent his 
loss either. 
I realise that my provisional decision will be disappointing for Mr M and I dont underestimate 
the impact this matter has had on him. But, based on what Ive seen so far, for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask Santander to refund his money 
now.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach the same conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision and I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander did not respond to my provisional decision. Mr M did respond and Ive 
summarised his further submissions below:
Mr M enquired if I had contacted Action Fraud and the Police to confirm the other 
cases of alleged fraud committed by the company directors. Mr M said this would 
confirm that the alleged fraudsters had a history of committing such crimes.
Mr M reiterated that Santander were required to check the recipients account details 
with him prior to him making the payment and said had it done so, the scam wouldve 
been prevented. Mr M said that had he been informed that he was sending his funds 
to a private account, he wouldnt have proceeded with the transaction.
Ive considered all of the additional points put forward by Mr M and Im afraid they dont 
change my mind.
I did not request any additional information from Action Fraud or the Police as I did not think 
this would make a material difference to the outcome of this complaint. Whilst there may be 
evidence of other alleged victims, this would not prove that Mr M had been scammed and it 
would not mean that I had enough evidence to say Mr Ms circumstances met the high legal 
threshold for fraud.
There was no obligation on Santander, at the time, to have carried out checks on the 
recipients account before allowing the payment to be processed. The only information that 
Santander would have had at the time was the recipients account number and sort-code as 
provided by Mr M. It would not have been able to readily identify that the payment was being 
made to a private account rather than a business account as Mr M has suggested and there 
was no requirement on Santander to carry out this check either. I cannot hold Santander to a 
standard that did not exist at the time.
Having taken into account the further submissions provided to me by Mr M, I am not minded 
to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision for the above reasons. I 
dont think Santander have acted unreasonably in treating Mr Ms circumstances as a private 
civil dispute. But even if I were to be persuaded that his circumstances met the high legal 
threshold for fraud and I assessed Santanders obligations as such, I still dont think 
Santander couldve prevented the payment from being processed from the outset. I wont be 
asking Santander to take any further action here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Emly HanleyOmbudsman