DRN-4260661
The complaint
Mr N says Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy by not trying to gather all the evidence that was potentially available.
What happened
Mr N was involved in an accident on a roundabout with another driver. Each blamed the 
other, but Mr N told Advantage on 6 December 2021 that there was CCTV coverage. 
Advantage later said liability should be split between the parties, but the other insurer held 
Mr N fully at fault and started legal proceedings. Advantage is defending the claim, but Mr N 
says it could have been avoided had the CCTV footage been sought  and he wouldnt have 
had to pay the policy excess. When Mr N complained to Advantage, it accepted that it 
should have tried to obtain the footage (although it says it asked Mr N to find out who owned 
the cameras, and he didnt do so). It apologised and offered him £30 compensation. 
Mr N complained to us and one of our investigators reviewed his complaint. She thought 
Advantage had acted reasonably. She said there was no guarantee the cameras would have 
captured the incident. And she said Mr N hadnt returned the accident report form (ARF) 
that Advantage said it sent him on 7 December 2021 until 4 February 2022. She said any 
reference Mr N made in it about the CCTV coverage would have been too late, as any 
footage would probably have been deleted before then.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision upholding it, and making the following points:
 Advantage said its advisor would have asked Mr N to find out who operated the 
cameras  which falls short of saying he was definitely asked. Theres no 
reference to the request in the claim notes, or to Advantage chasing Mr N for 
progress. Mr N says he wasnt asked, and that he wouldnt have known what to do 
anyway. He expected his insurer to carry out all the necessary enquiries.
 Once Mr N had told Advantage there could be CCTV footage of the accident, it 
should have checked that straight away. It would have known how vital such 
evidence can be - and that it was likely to be deleted after a short time. 
 Advantage suggested that it expected to get CCTV details from Mr N in the ARF. But 
theres no evidence that it was sent to him before 31 December 2021, close to the 
likely date of the footages deletion. When he was told the form had been sent to 
him again on 4 February 2022 he returned it within three days. He says it was the 
only ARF he received. 
 Although the CCTV cameras may not have recorded what happened, its just as 
likely that they did. So its possible that liability could have been established shortly 
after the accident. The footage could have shown that both drivers were at fault, or 
that only one of them was. Either way, Mr N wouldnt have had to face a long 
period of worry and frustration, with the prospect of a court hearing. 
 £30 compensation isnt enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience Mr N has 
faced, so Advantage should pay him £200 in total. 
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Advantage said it had now 
checked and had found only one CCTV camera on the roundabout, pointed away from 
where the accident took place. So the fact that it didnt seek any CCTV footage made no 
difference to the outcome. Mr N said the compensation proposed was insufficient, as hed 
had to pay the policy excess of £500. And he provided better images of the cameras he 
said might have recorded the incident.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage has shown that a high-level camera on the roundabout is pointed at the 
motorway below. But when I checked images of the roundabout myself, I could see two low-
level cameras, which is in line with the evidence Mr N has provided. From what I could see, 
theyre 360-degree cameras, as Mr N said. I cant be certain theyre positioned to cover the 
exact spot where the accident happened, but Mr N is sure they are, and he may be right. 
Advantage has already accepted that it was at fault, and I think the point is that it should 
have carried out a thorough check at the relevant time. Even if it could show now that there 
are no cameras that could have covered the incident (which I dont think it can) its more 
than 18 months too late. As a result of its poor service in 2021, Mr N faced much ongoing 
frustration and upset due to the potential loss of crucial evidence and in having to pursue 
Advantage to deal with his concerns. As I think that was easily avoidable, in my opinion its 
fair and reasonable to require Advantage to pay him £200 compensation in total. I dont think 
it would be fair or appropriate to increase that sum, as Mr N has asked. I know he thinks hes 
lost out because he shouldnt have had to pay the policy excess, but its payable on every 
claim. Should he be found not to be at fault later,  Mr N will be able to claim it back.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr N £200 for distress and inconvenience. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman