DRN-4197254
The complaint
Mrs V complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) continued to provide her 
with a £1,600 overdraft which was unaffordable. She says NatWest failed to review her 
account and continued to charge her despite her account showing signs of financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mrs V held an account with a £1,600 overdraft with NatWest. 
Mrs V complained to NatWest that the overdraft lending was unaffordable and that the 
overdraft and charges applied to her account caused her financial difficulty. She says the 
only way she could pay off the overdraft was by taking out a loan. 
NatWest said it couldnt look at the initial overdraft lending as it took place more than six 
years ago. NatWest said that it could only investigate Mrs Vs complaint from August 2016. It 
says Mrs Vs account at no point was managed by its financial health and support team and 
so there were no signs of financial difficulty and that all charges were applied correctly in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Mrs V was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mrs Vs complaint but didnt think there were any signs of financial 
difficulty that shouldve prompted NatWest to treat Mrs V differently.
Mrs V disagreed. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
A jurisdiction decision was issued on 17 May 2023 saying that we could only look at Mrs Vs 
complaint about the overdraft lending post August 2016. So the focus of the following 
decision is on the affordability of Mrs Vs overdraft with NatWest from this point until she 
raised her complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Vs complaint.  
Mrs V says that her overdraft was unaffordable and the charges NatWest applied to her 
account made her financial situation worse and that the only way she could pay off her 
overdraft was through a loan.
NatWest wouldnt have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs V if it applied any interest, 
fees and charges to Mrs Vs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly 
and reasonably to have been aware Mrs V was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where NatWest didnt treat Mrs V fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that NatWest did treat Mrs V unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because NatWest has no record of Mrs V contacting it about having financial 
difficulties and having looked at Mrs Vs statements, I havent seen enough to suggest for 
the period being looked at that NatWest ought to have realised she might have been 
experiencing financial difficulty prior to Mrs V raising her complaint. 
Mrs V may argue her regular and long term use of her overdraft was in itself an indication 
that she was struggling. But although I can see that there were longer periods of time where 
Mrs V didnt see a credit balance, equally there were long periods of time when she did. And 
I can also see from the statements the predominant reason she - I think - appeared to be 
overdrawn was due to payments towards holidays. Indeed, in July 2019 Mrs V transferred 
£1,750 to another account to pay for a holiday. This was enough to pay off her overdraft in 
full if she had chosen to do so. I can also see that there are significant amounts of non-
committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions  in particular on retail and leisure 
spending  though I accept these payments increased in 2019 along with her incoming 
credits.  
There were regular credits into the account and Mrs V was able to bring the overdraft down 
and often pay it off before once again going on to use her overdraft to make debit card 
transactions, at times large money transfers and cash withdrawals. I accept this doesnt 
necessarily mean that Mrs V wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything 
in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted NatWest to any potential 
financial difficulty. And although there were longer periods of time where Mrs V didnt see a 
credit balance Mrs V kept within her limit and when nearing the top of her limit would transfer 
funds over to service her overdraft. This appears to me to be someone who was very much 
in control of her finances.  
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for NatWest to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mrs Vs account was being 
used. And so I dont think NatWest treated Mrs V unfairly or unreasonably which means that 
I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Vs complaint against National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman