DRN-3033336
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way that UIA (Insurance) Limited dealt with his home insurance 
claim for water damage to his home.  
What happened
In October 2018 Mr S suffered water damage to his home caused by two leaks. He made a 
claim to UIA, who, after a site visit accepted the claim. Trace and access of the leaks was 
carried out and Mr S arranged for his plumber to repair the leaking pipes. He didnt want the 
work carried out before Christmas, so in January it was discussed that alternative 
accommodation (AA) would be appropriate.
Mr S had difficulties contacting the appointed loss adjusters (T) over the next couple of 
months. In April 2019, AA was arranged for Mr S and his family, which they moved into. Strip 
out and drying commenced and then the reinstatement works took place. They chose to 
have a new kitchen put in rather than repair the old one, and negotiated a settlement from 
UIA for this.
Mr S moved back in with his family in October 2019. However there remained some issues 
outstanding, particularly over the carpets which had been damaged during the repairs. A 
final settlement was agreed and paid to Mr S in January 2020. In February 2020 he received 
the drying certificate and warranty documents.
Mr S had numerous complaints about the way the claim was run, particularly over the 
management of the claim by T. He also felt hed been pushed into an unfair settlement. He 
made a complaint to UIA who upheld his complaint in part and offered a payment of £200 
compensation.
On referral to this service our investigator upheld the complaint and put forward the following 
proposals, that UIA should pay:
the full replacement and installation cost of all units purchased and installed to replace 
the units damaged as a result of the claim.
50% of the replacement cost for the units Mr S purchased to replace the undamaged, 
matching units which were removed from the property.
the full cost of installation of any units replaced by undamaged, matching units which 
would have required removal in order for repairs to take place anyway.
50% towards the installation of the new units which replaced the undamaged, matching 
units that did not require removal in order for repairs to take place.
a further £500 compensation.
Generally UIA agreed to these proposals. Mr S didnt and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I should set out here that this service operates as an alternative dispute resolution service. 
Our role is to resolve complaints informally. Here there is voluminous documentation which 
has been supplied by both parties. But in keeping with the informal resolution of complaints I 
wont be setting out all Mr Ss complaints in detail or reaching a finding on each and every 
one of them. Ive taken into account all the issues but in this decision Ill concentrate on the 
important issues and set out what is in my view a fair and reasonable settlement.
contact with T
Mr S says that T didnt keep in regular contact with him and that he often had to wait weeks 
before any response was received to emails or phone calls. He objected to T being 
appointed without his consent and says that the policy doesnt allow for this. UIA says there 
are over 500 points of contact noted by T.
As our investigator pointed out, T advised in its customer information sheet that it would 
appoint a claims concierge who would contact Mr S regularly to ensure everything was 
progressing smoothly. From the details provide by Mr S, including his timeline, I dont think 
that regular contact was kept, and that he had to wait sometimes weeks to get responses to 
his communications. I appreciate that sometimes further details may have had to be sought 
in order to reply, but Mr S could have been told this. As to the 500 points of contact, this is 
only an assertion by T without providing any specific details. I think it includes all Mr Ss 
attempts to communicate.
As for the actual appointment of a loss adjuster to handle the claim, this is something that 
happens in most cases involving large claims, no matter which insurer deals with it. The 
policy allows for payment of professional fees. How an insurer deals with a claim, whether it 
appoints a loss adjuster to deal with all aspects of the claim or whether it handles parts of 
the claim in-house, is really a matter for its internal procedures. 
payment of plumber
Mr S says he was embarrassed by UIAs delays in paying his plumber, and had to settle the 
bills himself before UIA reimbursed him. The plumber carried out trace and access work, 
covered by the policy. He submitted his invoice in December 2018, but this wasnt settled 
until July 2019. The plumber had to do further work in March 2019 to get the toilet and 
running water fixed for the contractors to start work. This bill wasnt paid until early January 
2020. I understand the first bill had to be resubmitted and detailed correctly. Nevertheless 
this was work covered under the policy and there was a substantial delay in paying both 
bills.
alternative accommodation (AA)
Mr S says they were given the impression that they would be able to remain in the property 
with a temporary kitchen. But he didnt realise the full extent of the strip out and work 
required. He says he incurred expenses and wasted time in arranging a temporary kitchen. 
He was given AA by UIA but wasnt given proper advice about it by T.
T says it tried to work with Mr Ss wishes in wanting to stay in the property but it was going to 
be much easier to complete the work without Mr S being there. I think this is just an example of the lack of communication. Clearly the work was going to be completed quicker without 
Mr S being there, and that should have been communicated to him. To that extent I agree 
that Mr S wasted his time in trying to organise a temporary kitchen. He hasnt shown us that 
he made any financial loss, but I will take into account the inconvenience and time wasted in 
the compensation award.
kitchen
Mr S opted to have a completely new kitchen, rather than have some parts replaced. He 
disputes UIAs contention that his new kitchen wasnt like for like. He also says that the 
undamaged units were damaged when being removed, which UIA disputes.
Its clear that UIA intended to pay the material cost of 50 % of the undamaged parts of the 
kitchen under the matching sets term in the policy. But it didnt propose to pay toward the 
reinstallation costs of the undamaged parts of the kitchen. Mr S misunderstood that and 
thought that UIA was going to pay 50% of the installation costs of the undamaged parts as 
well. He also says that when designing their new kitchen that they took that into account.
Whist this point is academic, as UIA has paid the 50% installation cost, I think the position 
could have been explained to Mr S better. In particular T waited until it got a quote from Mr S 
before setting out what UIAs liability was.
UIA drew a distinction between the units purchased to replace undamaged matching units 
and those which didnt replace a component of the new kitchen, like the units purchased and 
installed to accommodate integrated appliances. Mr S says in having the new kitchen 
designed he took into account the provisions of the policy, but that T failed to inspect the 
kitchen before it was removed and didnt clarify how the matching items clause would be 
applied to our kitchen and how that would impact them financially. 
Further I understand that the drying/strip out contractors got in touch with Mr S in early 
October 2019 to advise that it was returning the undamaged items, namely the sinks, taps 
and door handles. Our investigator initially said that these were returned too late as the 
kitchen had been fitted by then, and Mr S wasnt given the opportunity of using them. 
However she later said that as Mr S had made it clear that he was proceeding with a new 
kitchen and didnt want the old kitchen returned, so UIA didnt have to pay for these.
Pulling the threads of this together, I understand Mr S to say that the kitchen was designed 
to be as close as possible to the old one, that the units were damaged in being removed and 
that this was the reason why they proceeded with the new kitchen. He also say the sinks etc 
could have been used in the new kitchen. Further that UIA didnt take account of their 
vulnerability which made them take decisions regarding the claim which werent financially 
appropriate for them.
To a great extent Im being asked to guess at what might have happened had the claim been 
handled well, and had T given Mr S full information regarding the kitchens cost and UIAs 
liability towards it. Firstly while I note Mr S refers to the FCAs rules and guidelines, to a 
certain extent anyone who suffers an insurance claim could be described as vulnerable. 
Vulnerability is usually concerned with health or other issues where special provision has to 
be made. I dont think Mr or Mrs S would be classed as vulnerable to that extent. And whilst 
I understand the very real stresses and anxieties that such a claim could bring about, I have 
to look at whether the directions proposed reasonably and fairly address this issue.
I think fairly early on Mr and Mrs S decided that they wanted a new kitchen. Mr S is articulate 
and eloquent in his communications with UIA and fully able to understand in my view what 
he wanted. This was partly because he believed that the units couldnt be removed without being damaged, whether they were damaged by the water or not. I can understand that 
concern, and it was always made clear that if any units were damaged when removing them 
they would be replaced. But I dont think this was inevitable. Mr S was aware that they would 
only receive 50% of the cost of the new kitchen. And while UIA originally said it wasnt going 
to pay 50% towards the cost of installation, of any units purchased to replace non damaged 
units from the original kitchen, it later agreed to this.
Before any strip out of works started Mr S emailed UIA in March 2019 as follows: We have 
told [the contractors] that we have purchased a new kitchen so will not require any of the 
units, sink or fitted electrical items from the existing kitchen. So, whilst the question of 
returning them wasnt addressed until later, Mr S had already advised he didnt want therm. 
So I dont think UIA should pay any cost Mr S incurred for replacing these items.
Overall I think UIA have made a fair settlement. Im satisfied that  any issues over 
vulnerability have either been addressed in the steps UIA has already taken or will be 
addressed in my directions.
other issues
The final settlement was agreed by Mr S in mid-October 2019. It wasnt paid to him until 
30 January 2020, after UIA had directly intervened. UIA said it wanted to collate costs first 
but it admitted that it should have paid at least part of the settlement earlier. I agree that this 
was unacceptable.
There was a delay in paying the electricity costs due to an error in calculation. I agree this 
was an unnecessary delay.
There was also an unnecessary delay in providing the drying certificate which Mr S didnt 
receive until February 2020, despite agreeing the settlement some four months earlier.
Mr S wanted to employ a clerk of works to oversee the claim. It was confirmed by UIA that 
this cost wouldnt be covered under the policy. Mr S decided to do this any way. Whilst the 
policy allows for professional fees, this would only be done with the insurers agreement in 
advance. I think it was reasonable for UIA to decline payment of those fees.
Mr S wanted carpets replaced, as he felt they were damaged by the dust and heavy traffic. I 
note that T initially said this cost wouldnt be paid, I see that following UIAs intervention, it 
agreed to pay for replacement carpets.
compensation 
Our investigator proposed that Mr S be paid compensation of a further £500 on top of the 
£200 already offered. Mr S didnt feel this was sufficient for what they had to go through. I 
have to consider the length of time, the effect on Mr and Mrs S and what UIA did to put 
matters right. I record first of all that UIA accepted the majority of our investigators 
recommendations, including the proposed compensation payment. I regard a payment of 
compensation of £700 to be fair where the impact of the poor service mistake has caused 
considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience and disruption that 
needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. And I have to be consistent and say this is in line with 
awards we have made in similar cases.
Putting things right
I record first of all that UIA has already made payments in respect of the following:the full replacement and installation cost of all units purchased and installed to replace 
the units damaged as a result of the claim, as per Mr Ss invoice.  
50% of the replacement cost for the units Mr S purchased to replace the undamaged, 
matching units which were removed from the property, as per his invoice.
Further UIA should:
pay the full cost of reinstallation of any units which were replaced by undamaged, 
matching units which would have required removal in order for repairs to take place 
anyway to be settled in full  as per Mr Ss invoice, with 8% simple interest per year from 
the date of invoice until the date of settlement.
pay 50% towards the installation of the new units which replaced the undamaged, 
matching units that did not require removal in order for repairs to take place  as per 
Mr Ss invoice  including 8% simple interest per year from the date of invoice until the 
date of settlement.
pay a total of £700 compensation to Mr S. If it has paid any part of this, it should just pay 
the balance.
UIA (Insurance) Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any 
interest paid. Should Mr S request it, it should provide him with a certificate showing how 
much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, he can reclaim it.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require UIA (Insurance) Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman