DRN-1742526
 
The complaint
Mr F says Canada Square Operations Limited (CSO) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The policy was sold to him by CitiFinancial Europe but CSO has 
taken responsibility for the complaint, so I will refer to CSO in the decision.
What happened
In 2001, Mr F took out a loan with CSO. At the same time he was sold a single premium PPI 
policy. The cost of the policy was added to his loan, which meant that interest was charged 
on it.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. This was because he didnt 
think the cost of the policy had been made clear enough to Mr F. CSO disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
When CSO sold the PPI policy to Mr F it needed to make sure, among other things, he was 
given enough information about it to decide if it was right for him. This information needed to 
be clear, fair and not misleading. I dont think its shown it did this in relation to the cost of the 
policy. 
Ive reviewed the sample Insurance Application Form that CSO says Mr F would have 
signed at the time of the sale. This shows the cash price of the premium, the interest 
chargeable on it over the term of the loan and the total premium including interest. But this 
sample form that CSO has provided was signed by a customer in 2007 and the form carries 
the printed code 08/05  presumably meaning the form came into use from August 2005. 
As such, I cant fairly say that the form Mr F would have seen in 2001 was the same, or even 
similar to, the one CSO has sent us. And although CSO has also sent a sample credit 
agreement, which it suggests might have been in use in 2001, that form doesnt sufficiently 
set out the cost information - the interest payable on the PPI is not set out separately. So 
even if I knew that agreement reflected what Mr F would have seen, I dont think it gave 
enough information on the cost. 
All of which means I cant fairly conclude that CSO has shown that it adequately disclosed 
the cost of the PPI to Mr F before he agreed to buy it.And I think this would have mattered to Mr F. This cost of Mr Fs policy represented a 
significant sum of money. So I think making sure he understood the cost in full (including the 
cash price and the interest that would be charged on it, the total price and the monthly cost) 
would have been important to Mr F in making an informed choice about whether he wanted 
to take out this cover. Taking account of what I know about his circumstances at the time, I 
dont think he would have thought the policy represented good value for money or that hed 
still have wanted to buy it if CSO had given him better cost information than it's shown it did.
So I think Mr Fs lost out as a result of this failure by CSO and this should be put right.
Putting things right
Mr F borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should have been and 
he paid more than he should have each month. So Mr F needs to get back the extra hes 
paid. So, CSO should:
Work out and pay Mr F the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would have paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr F paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, CSO can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
If CSOs already repaid any commission or profit share to Mr F that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can also be deducted from the compensation it owes him.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires CSO to take off tax from this interest. CSO must give Mr 
F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold the complaint against Canada Square Operations Limited 
and require it to put things right for Mr F as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman