DRN-4408262
The complaint
Miss M complains that George Square Financial Management Ltd (GSFM) gave her 
unsuitable advice to transfer her defined-benefit (DB) pension to a personal pension plan 
(PPP). And alleges that she will be worse off in her retirement as a result.
Miss Ms complaint was made on her behalf by a legal representative, but for ease of 
reading I will simply refer to Miss M in this decision.
What happened
GSFM were approached on Miss Ms behalf around May 2016 to discuss her pension and 
retirement needs. The person acting on Miss Ms behalf expressed concerns about Miss Ms 
vulnerability as she suspected that she had been seeking advice about how to take benefits 
from her pension.
GSFM completed a fact-find to gather information about Miss Ms circumstances and 
objectives. GSFM also carried out an assessment of Miss Ms attitude to risk, which it 
deemed to be medium. 
On 7 June 2016, GSFM provided Miss M with a suitability report. It advised her to transfer 
her pension benefits into a PPP and invest the proceeds. The suitability report said the 
reasons for this recommendation was to meet her objective of being able to leave her 
pension benefits to her sister as she had no dependants. 
In February 2023 Miss M complained to GSFM about the suitability of the transfer advice 
because:
GSFM didnt give proper consideration to Miss Ms vulnerability
There was no suitable reason to justify transferring her DB pension
Miss M has been left with no means of funding her retirement
GSFM didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. It said that it had considered her circumstances and 
understood her vulnerability. It said that its recommendation allowed her to meet her 
objectives and was therefore suitable. It said she understood the benefits that she was 
giving up.
Miss M referred her complaint to our service. An investigator looked into the circumstances 
and contacted GSFM who explained that it thought we might not be able to help resolve the 
complaint because it may not have been made in time. So our investigator considered that 
issue. And was of the opinion that the complaint had been made within the three years 
Miss M was allowed from the earliest point that Miss M ought reasonably to have known she 
had cause to complain. Our investigator also went on to consider and give an opinion on the 
merits of the complaint. She explained that she thought Miss Ms complaint should be upheld 
because:
The transfer wasnt likely to be financially viable, meaning it would most likely leave 
Miss M with benefits of a lower overall value.
The importance of death benefits was most likely over-played and wouldnt justify 
sacrificing a guaranteed income in retirement
No consideration appeared to be given to Miss Ms income needs in retirement
GSFM disagreed and have asked for an ombudsmans decision, although has provided no 
additional comment or evidence in response to our investigators view. This case was passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same decision as our investigator for similar reasons. I 
can see that GSFM havent agreed that the complaint was made in time for us to be able to 
help. So I will start by giving my decision on that, which is the same as the answer our 
investigator has already given. I will then go on to give my decision on the merits of this 
case. 
My decision on jurisdiction
Before our service is able to consider the merits of a case we first need to decide that its 
something were allowed to help with. And whether or not were allowed to help with a 
dispute  our jurisdiction  is set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) part of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Amongst the things that we have to consider, which is of specific relevance here, is whether 
a complaint was made in time for us to be able to help. Consumers do not have an indefinite 
amount of time after an event to raise a complaint. The relevant rule for this is DISP 2.8.2R. 
It tells us that consumers have a right to complain about an event within six years (the six-
year rule). Or, if complaining later than that, we can still consider a complaint that is made 
within three years of the point that the consumer was aware, or had reasonable cause to 
become aware, that she had a cause for complaint (the three-year rule). 
The event complained about is the advice that Miss M was given by GSFM in June 2016. So 
Miss M only had until June 2022 to complain for us to be able to investigate her complaint 
under the six-year rule. She complained to GSFM in February 2023. So her complaint was 
made too late under this part of DISP 2.8.2R.
I also have to consider here whether the three-year rule allows us to help with this 
complaint. In this instance Ive looked at the advice that Miss M received. Which I dont think 
would have led her to believe that she would receive benefits of a specific value or in a 
specific way at retirement. And it didnt give her advice about how to take her benefits in 
retirement as she was aged 52 at the time, so not of an age to be able to take her benefits. 
I dont think she would have had cause to consider the advice was unsuitable when it was 
given, otherwise I dont think she would have accepted it. So Ive considered what incident or 
information after the advice may have caused her to think something was wrong. 
I dont think anything in her PPP statements would have caused her to think that things 
werent progressing in the way shed been advised. Which shed trusted to have been in her 
best interests. Her PPP provider has confirmed that she took all of her benefits in a single 
lump sum payment in April 2021 though. This would have left her with no remaining pension 
fund. So no death benefits and no income in retirement. Ive seen nothing earlier than that 
date that I would consider ought to have caused Miss M to be concerned about what shed lost following GSFMs advice. So, given that Miss Ms complaint was made within three 
years of the point she crystallised her pension benefits, even if that event gave her cause to 
think the transfer hadnt been in her interests, the three-year rule would still give our service 
the jurisdiction to consider this complaint. 
For these reasons my decision is that Miss Ms case is one our service can help with.
My decision on the merits of Miss Ms complaint
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) which are published by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Handbook. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of GSFMs actions here.
PRIN 2.1 - Principle 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
 PRIN 2.1 - Principle 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair, and not misleading.
 COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly, and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
 The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a defined benefit pension transfer.
The regulator, states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme should be that it is unsuitable. So, GSFM should have only considered a transfer if it 
could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Miss Ms best interests. And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in her best interests. Ive decided this for 
the following reasons:
Financial viability 
GSFM carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing 
how much Miss Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as her DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. Miss M was 52 at the time of the advice and her DB pension had a normal retirement age of 
60. The critical yield required to match Miss Ms benefits (on a single life basis) at age 60 
was 12.3% if she took a full pension and 9.2% if she took tax-free cash and a reduced 
pension. Whilst these returns wouldnt replicate her DB pension, which provided spouse 
benefits, Miss M was single and may have considered giving up spouse benefits for better 
single life benefits. This compares with the discount rate of 3.9% per year for eight years to 
retirement in this case.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Miss Ms medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point 
in Miss M giving up the guarantees available to them through her DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest 
critical yield was 9.2%, I think Miss M was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that 
attitude to risk. Which was the conclusion that GSFM reached and explained to Miss M.
GSFM has provided drawdown models which it says shows Miss Ms pension fund would 
likely be exhausted by age 78 if she instead took an equivalent level of income from her 
pension fund by drawdown. Which was short of her average life expectancy.
I conclude that this transfer wasnt financially viable for Miss M. By which I mean that she 
was likely to end up financially disadvantaged by it. But GSFM didnt recommend this 
transfer based on a likelihood of improving the level of income available. It told Miss M that 
the only way to achieve her objective was to transfer her DB pension to a PPP even though 
that would not match the benefits of her DB scheme. I understand that there might be other 
considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. 
Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
Miss M was not yet of an age to be able to take benefits from her DB pension or a PPP. She 
was unemployed and unable to work. She received benefits as a result and was in 
supported accommodation. Her DB pension appeared to be her only pension other than her 
state pension.
It appears from the limited information that GSFM ascertained about her expenditure that it 
wasnt likely to be in Miss Ms interests to take any income from this pension whilst she was 
receiving the benefits she was. At some point though, that could change and this pension 
would provide very valuable additional income to her state pension.
Other than listing the various ways in which Miss M could take benefits from her PPP, GSFM 
didnt really consider her income needs in retirement. I dont think, on a balance of 
probability, that Miss M required flexibility in retirement. This is because, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I dont think she had a genuine need to access her benefits before her 
scheme retirement age, or that the format of the existing benefits werent already suitable. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Miss M. And I accept that it was likely a driver to her obtaining financial advice. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are 
important to consumers, and Miss M might have thought it was a good idea to transfer her 
DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Miss M 
about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement. And I dont think GSFM explored to what extent Miss M was prepared 
to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for being able to name her sister as the 
beneficiary of death benefits.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a PPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Miss M. I say that because there is no evidence 
that Miss Ms sister was financially dependant on her. GSFM did not explore this at all, or the 
likelihood of Miss M pre-deceasing her sister. It simply accepted that Miss M wanted this 
without exploring whether it was actually in her financial best interests.
Summary
I dont doubt that the potential to pass her pension as a lump sum to her sister through a 
personal pension would have sounded attractive to Miss M. But GSFM wasnt there to just 
transact what Miss M might have thought she wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Miss M needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Miss M was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free, and increasing income. By transferring, Miss M was very likely to 
obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there was no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Miss M shouldnt have been advised to transfer 
purely to leave a lump sum death benefit to a non-financially dependent family member. 
Especially given the likelihood that Miss Ms fund could be exhausted in taking benefits, 
potentially leaving no death benefits anyway.
So, I think GSFM shouldve advised Miss M to remain in her DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Miss M would've gone ahead anyway, against 
GSFM's advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Miss M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against GSFMs advice. I say this because Miss M was 
an inexperienced investor with a medium attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the 
whole of Miss Ms retirement provision. So, if GSFM had provided her with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I 
think she wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Miss Ms concerns about her death benefits were so great that she 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise she 
was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for her or in her best interests. So, I dont think 
Miss M would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think GSFM should compensate Miss M for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for GSFM to put Miss M, as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Miss M would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. GSFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 60, as 
per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. Ive considered the fact that Miss M took a 
lump sum benefit from her PPP in 2021. But, if shed been given more suitable advice, that 
option wouldnt have been available to her. GSFM understood Miss M was a vulnerable 
consumer and placed her in a position where the unsuitable advice she was given meant 
she ended up with this option. Which potentially compounded the already disadvantaged 
position GSFM had put Miss M in. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Miss Ms acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, GSFM should:
calculate and offer Miss M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Miss M before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Miss M receives could be augmented to a 
personal pension rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Miss M accepts GSFMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Miss M for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Miss Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Miss M as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits 
that would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, GSFM 
may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Miss Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £190,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £190,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. Note that this limit is higher than our investigator quoted in her 
view. This is not a matter of determination for me but is a matter of fact based on DISP 
3.7.4R. It is dependent upon the date of the act (June 2016 in this case) and the date this 
complaint was referred to out service (which was 24 May 2023).If payment of compensation is not made within 90 days of GSFM receiving Miss M's 
acceptance of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If GSFM deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Miss M how much has been taken off. GSFM should give Miss M a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if GSFM asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require George Square 
Financial Management Ltd to pay Miss M the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £190,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £190,000, I also recommend that 
George Square Financial Management Ltd pays Miss M the balance.
If Miss M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on George Square 
Financial Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Miss M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Miss M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman