DRN-2719344
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) reduced his overdraft limit and with the 
service he received when he contacted it about the matter.
What happened
Mr H is a long-term HSBC account holder, with his account having an overdraft facility.
On 14 February 2020, HSBC sent Mr H a letter about reducing his overdraft limit from 
£1,500 to £650 and advising that the new limit will come into effect on 19 March 2020.
After receiving the letter, Mr H contacted HSBC. Mr H was unhappy as he felt that HSBC 
was lowering his overdraft limit deliberately, meaning he may incur charges if he exceeded 
the limit. Mr H wanted to raise a formal complaint and receive a response that enabled him 
to bring the complaint to our service.
The call handler logged Mr Hs concerns and explained that the accounts management 
team would be able to review the concerns about the overdraft limit, but that they were not 
available until after 09:00am. The call handler explained they would call Mr H back after 
09:00am and try and get the situation resolved. As Mr H had been waiting for a long time to 
get through to HSBC, the call handler offered Mr H £30 for the delay and to cover any 
additional call costs he incurred.
The call handler called Mr H back a little later in the day and tried, while Mr H was kept on 
hold, to get in contact with the accounts team. Mr H was kept on hold for a considerable 
amount of time. From listening to the call recording (internally between the HSBC 
departments) it wasnt something that the accounts managing team were able to deal with 
and the decision regarding the overdraft limit couldnt be overturned.
The call recording unfortunately stops here and it isnt clear whether Mr H was informed of 
this or whether, having been kept on hold for around 20 minutes, had discontinued the call.
Mr H called back shortly after and raised his concerns that he had been kept on hold for 20 
minutes and felt that he shouldnt have been kept on hold while a call handler tried to get in 
touch with the right department. Mr H explained that rather than him waiting, a call back 
should be made to him when the right department was available. Mr H was frustrated at 
HSBCs process. The call handler looked into Mr Hs concerns and reviewed the calls Mr H 
previously had with HSBC. The call handler initially advised that a complaint hadnt been 
recorded, but later confirmed a complaint had been recorded and resolved regarding the 
reduction in Mr Hs overdraft limit with a compensation payment of £30.
The call handler then re-opened the complaint, stopped the compensation payment for £30 
and advised that Mr Hs concerns about the overdraft would be looked into and a responded 
to.
Mr H then received a call later on the same day from a manager. The manager confirmed 
that Mr H concerns would be looked into. Mr H requested a copy of the calls hed had with 
HSBC, as he was frustrated at the number of calls either he made or made to him where he 
had been placed on hold or had to wait in a queue to get through to someone. Ultimately, 
Mr H wanted his concerns looked into and a response in writing, enabling him to bring the 
complaint to our service. And HSBCs response in trying to resolve the matter meant he was 
continually put in a queue waiting to get through to someone or was placed on hold.
On 25 February 2020, HSBC wrote to Mr H with its final response. 
HSBC explained to Mr H that every overdraft is in place for a maximum of one year and that 
it reviews the account to see what limit it can offer for the following year; this may increase or 
reduce the limit. It explained that overdrafts are on-demand lending facilities, designed to 
cover short-term borrowing needs and that the account should return to credit regularly. It 
said that it can ask customers to repay the full amount owed at any time.
It explained that it wasnt able to prevent Mr Hs limit from being reduced and that if Mr H 
wanted to reapply for a higher amount, he could do so, but it would be subject to a credit 
scored application.
HSBC acknowledged that Mr H had spent a considerable amount of time on the phone in 
trying to resolve the matter and that feedback would be provided. It also offered Mr H £50 to 
compensate him for the inconvenience caused.
With regards to the call recordings, it advised that Mr H could listen to these calls in branch 
and that if Mr H advised what branch he would be happy to attend, it would be arranged with 
the relevant branch manager.
Mr H then arranged to attend the Norwich branch  and when he did attend, the calls werent 
available.
Unhappy with HSBCs response regarding the overdraft and the overall service he had 
received, Mr H referred the matter to our service.
When the complaint was referred to our service, HSBC agreed in its submissions that the 
service Mr H had received fell below its standards and offered Mr H an additional £100 on 
top of the £50 paid. This was to recognise the wasted trip Mr H made to the branch to listen 
to the phone calls. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. In short, they considered HSBC had 
acted fairly in reducing Mr Hs overdraft limit in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
the account. And they were satisfied that HSBC had also given Mr H a reasonable notice 
period when informing him of the upcoming change to the limit. They also considered the 
additional amount of £100 compensation (on top of the £50 it offered for the service Mr H 
received when he called HSBC) was fair and took into account Mr Hs wasted trip that he 
had made to the branch to listen to the call recordings.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators opinion. As the matter hasnt been resolved its been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I think HSBCs offer of compensation for the poor service he received is 
fair. Ill explain why.
Before I go on to explain my findings, I want to take this opportunity to clarify what I am 
considering within this decision. Mr H had raised a concern about not being able to pay off 
some of his mortgage. But Mr H confirmed to our investigator that he no longer wished to 
proceed with this element of his complaint. I also note in recent correspondence with our 
investigator (after the investigator had issued their assessment) Mr H raised a concern over 
the overdraft interest rate. As this issue hadnt been raised previously, and as HSBC hasnt 
had a chance to respond to Mr H on that point, our investigator has confirmed to Mr H that 
this needs to be complained about separately, with HSBC having the chance to respond in 
the first instance.
So to confirm, this decision focuses on HSBCs decision to reduce Mr Hs overdraft limit and 
the service Mr H received when he contacted HSBC about the matter.
HSBCs decision to reduce Mr Hs overdraft limit
Mr H thinks that HSBC lowered his limit in the hope that he exceeded his overdraft, meaning 
he would then have to pay additional charges. I disagree.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Hs account. 
Under section 16. Overdrafts it states:
Types of overdraft
An arranged overdraft is one we agree with you in advance. It allows you to borrow 
from us before making any payments that take your account overdrawn. Well 
confirm your overdraft limit in writing. Theres no fixed period but well review it 
regularly.
So its clear from the terms and conditions that HSBC can regularly review an overdraft 
arrangement it has with its customer. And that it will confirm the overdraft limit to its 
customer in writing.
That is what HSBC has done in Mr Hs case. In line with the terms and conditions of the 
account, it reviewed Mr Hs account usage and took the decision to lower Mr Hs overdraft 
limit from £1,500 to £650. And, importantly, it gave Mr H a months notice before the limit 
was to be changed. 
HSBC has also explained that Mr H can reapply for a higher amount  but that it will be 
subject to a credit scored application. 
For Mr Hs benefit, I would like to add that an overdraft is a form of running account credit, 
where the lender (usually a bank or building society) allows its customer to take out more 
money than the amount they have in their current account.
 
Most lenders make it clear in the terms and conditions that overdrafts are for short term 
emergency borrowing needs, as this is often an expensive form of credit, particularly where 
the account remains overdrawn for significant periods of time. And they arent intended for, 
or an appropriate means of, long term borrowing. There is an obligation for lenders to ensure that the credit limit (overdraft limit) is right for 
their customer. Lenders are required to ensure they dont lend irresponsibly. So when a bank 
or building society reviews the account usage and the overdraft limit, it will aim to set the 
appropriate limit.
And if a customer wishes for their overdraft limit to be higher, then the bank or building 
society  as a responsible lender  needs to carry out the appropriate checks again to 
ensure the limit (as it is a form of lending, with the total amount also being payable on 
demand) is suitable for the customer. And by increasing the limit, ensure that it doesnt 
impact the customers ability to repay the overdraft (for example where there is a decrease in 
salary or an increase in dependents or expenditure).  
Taking all of the above into consideration, Im satisfied that HSBC were entitled to review 
Mr Hs overdraft limit and take the decision to lower it. Im also satisfied HSBC gave Mr H a 
reasonable notice period informing him of the upcoming change.  
The service Mr H received
HSBC in its response to our service agreed that Mr H wasnt provided with the best service. 
Having reviewed what happened and the service Mr H received, I agree. 
In short, Mr H logged his concerns and wished for the matter to be looked into and a 
response issued to him  by letter. He indicated that he wanted the response because he 
intended to take the matter to our service and didnt want to spend time on the phone. 
I appreciate the initial call handler was empathetic and did try to resolve matters for Mr H. 
Mr H was offered £30 for the waiting time and for any costs he incurred in calling. The call 
handler also arranged to call Mr H back once the accounts managing team were available 
after 09:00am. But when the call handler did call Mr H back and then tried to get in contact 
with the accounts managing team, that call led to Mr H being on hold for a considerable 
amount of time  and it didnt resolve the issue.
And when Mr H called back, he was given incorrect information about whether there was a 
complaint logged for his concerns about the reduced overdraft limit. When it was identified 
that a complaint had been logged, Mr H was then informed that it had been closed with 
HSBCs offer of £30 being accepted by Mr H as a resolution. 
So there was clearly some confusion here  which added to Mr Hs frustration. Mr H had 
accepted the initial £30 compensation as that was for the service he received (the waiting 
time) when he made his initial call. But his complaint about HSBCs decision to reduce his 
overdraft hadnt been resolved or looked into. So things could have been handled better. But 
I am mindful that things can and do go wrong, and in this case, HSBC did re-open the 
complaint, and a manager did get in contact with Mr H promptly. 
HSBC, in its formal response to Mr H several days later, also offered and paid £50 for the 
level of service it provided during those calls. I think £50 is a sufficient award here and takes 
into account the level of service Mr H received during these calls and the unnecessary 
inconvenience Mr H had been put to.
But HSBC compounded the level of service Mr H received when it said that it would arrange 
for Mr H to listen to the calls in a branch of Mr Hs choosing, only for the call recordings to 
not be available when Mr H attended. HSBC has offered a further £100 as compensation for this error  and I think this amount 
fairly reflects the inconvenience Mr H was put to in spending time travelling to and attending 
the branch and being unable to listen to the calls.
I note that Mr H wanted to listen to the calls as he considered it evidenced the poor level of 
service he received. I also note that HSBC has since arranged for the calls to be sent to 
Mr H. I would like to assure Mr H that in reviewing this complaint Ive listened to the calls and 
I do agree that the service provided by HSBC could have been better as there was an 
unnecessary amount of calls and incorrect information provided.
Overall, I think HSBCs offer of £100 in addition to the £50 it has already paid is fair 
compensation, and it fairly recognises the poor level of service Mr H received and fairly 
compensates him for the wasted trip to the branch.
 
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
I understand £50 has already been paid, so my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
pay Mr H the remaining £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman