DRN-2568830
The complaint
Mr D complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited mis-sold him a life assurance policy.
What happened
In 1993 Mr D was sold a decreasing term assurance policy (the policy) by Halifax, when it 
was a tied representative of Standard Life, at the same time as applying for his mortgage 
with the bank. The policy started in 1994 with a term of 25 years and an initial sum assured 
of £19,950 with monthly premiums set at £8. The policy matched the mortgage in terms of 
duration and amount  it also decreased in line with the repayment mortgage. The policy 
was cancelled at the end of September 1998 when Mr D repaid the mortgage.
In 2020 Mr D complained to Standard Life about the sale. He said the adviser told him the 
policy was a condition of the mortgage and this was the only reason he took it out. Mr D said 
it was the increased awareness around Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) mis-selling 
scandal that led him to question the advice he received in 1993. At this time, he was single 
with no children and had sufficient assets to cover the mortgage debt in the event of his 
death. Mr D said he didnt want or need the policy.
Standard Life originally said the matter was out of time. But following a view on jurisdiction 
from our investigator, it consented to our service looking at the complaint.
Standard Life didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It noted Mr Ds situation at the time of sale but 
said its always considered best advice to have life cover in place to protect a mortgage. 
Standard Life said if Mr D was unhappy with its recommendation hed the option to reject the 
advice or cancel the policy. Standard Life also considered the advice was suitable for Mr Ds 
circumstances as it matched the duration and amount of his repayment mortgage. It 
confirmed the policy wasnt mandatory and that this was made sufficiently clear to Mr D.
Our investigator recommended upholding the complaint. She didnt think the policy was 
suitable for Mr Ds particular circumstances. So considered itd been mis-sold on this basis. 
She said Standard Life should repay the premiums Mr D had paid from 1994 to 1998 adding 
8% simple interest to take account of the time hed been without these funds.
Standard Life disagreed. It said that whilst Mr D was single, he could still leave his property 
mortgage free to his beneficiaries. Mr D also noted he thinks the redress didnt take account 
of inflation. He also said he thought Standard Life acted fraudulently when it sold the policy 
to him. So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint. Before I explain my reasoning, I understand 
that Mr D has raised a number of points during his contact with this service. Although I may 
not mention every point he's raised, Ive considered everything Mr D has said but limited my 
findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. Further, where there's a 
dispute about what happened, I've based my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Mr D says he only took out the policy because he was told by the adviser he would not 
receive the mortgage without it. Whilst Ive taken Mr Ds testimony into account, given the 
matter happened more than 25 years ago, I think its important to balance this with the 
contemporaneous notes made at the time of sale. 
Looking at the point of sale documents, in particular the fact find completed by the adviser, I 
can see it was explained to Mr D that if hed no life cover the mortgage debt would pass to 
his beneficiaries. It also notes that a number of options were discussed, including the option 
of having a repayment mortgage with no policy. I think this is persuasive evidence of Mr D 
being told the policy was optional  something that would be good for him to have, rather 
than something that was compulsory. On balance, I think its likely the adviser 
recommended the policy and it was as a result of this recommendation that Mr D opted to 
take out the policy. Ill now consider suitability.
From what I can see, I dont think the recommendation to take out the policy was suitable for 
Mr Ds circumstances. I say this because at the time of the advice in 1993, the fact find 
shows that Mr D was 39 years old, single and had no dependents. So, on the face of it, there 
didnt appear to be anyone that would benefit from the property being mortgage free other 
than Mr D.
Standard Life say that although Mr D had no dependants, he may have felt it prudent to have 
life cover to ensure whoever stood to inherit his property, didnt have to worry about repaying 
the mortgage. It says this alone would be a valid reason for choosing to take out the cover. I 
understand where the business is coming from here and in some cases, this may be correct. 
But in this case, I cant see that Mr D felt this was a priority for him. I also note that the 
property he was purchasing was a second property. And it would seem from what he says 
about his financial situation at the time, that hed sufficient assets to leave to his 
beneficiaries in the event of his death. But I just cant see anything which would suggest this 
was a priority for Mr D at the time of the advice.
All in all, based on Mr Ds circumstances and objectives, I dont think the advice was suitable 
for him. And I think if Standard Life had provided Mr D with suitable advice at the time of 
sale, he would have followed that advice. Therefore, Im upholding the complaint.
In his submissions to this service, Mr D considers that Standard Life acted fraudulently. Ive 
considered all the information provided by both parties. And the basis for my decision is that 
by not adequately considering Mr Ds situation at the time, I dont think Standard Life acted 
fairly or reasonably by making the recommendation it did. I can see that Mr D signed the fact 
find (confidential questionnaire) which set out what was discussed at the time of the advice. 
He was signing to say that the information contained in the fact find was correct. So whilst I 
take on board how strongly Mr D feels, I cant fairly make a finding that Standard Life acted 
fraudulently in this case.
I know Mr D thinks the redress should take into account inflation. But the interest of 8% 
simple interest paid from the date that each premium was paid up until the settlement date, 
seeks to put the consumer back in a position they would have been but for the mistake. Mr D 
will appreciate that this level of interest is far in excess of the interest thats achievable from 
a normal savings account in most years since 1994. So Im satisfied our standard approach 
for taking into account the time the consumer has been denied the funds paid towards the 
premiums, is the correct one to apply in Mr Ds case.
For all these reasons, Im upholding the complaint.My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint. Standard Life Assurance Limited should refund the premiums 
Mr D paid for the policy. Standard Life Assurance Limited should also pay Mr D interest at 
8% per annum simple on each premium from the date it was paid until the date of 
settlement. 
If Standard Life Assurance Limited considers that it is legally required to deduct income tax 
from the interest, it must send a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mr D can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman