DRN-3977288
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car acquired with finance from Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BM) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with BM. At the point of supply the car was around 11 years old and had covered 93,000 
miles.
Mr S experienced issues with the car soon after the point of supply. He had to jump start the 
car every time he wanted to use it.
Mr S reported the issues to the dealership who advised that it was a battery issue and that 
replacing the battery would resolve the issue. Repairs were attempted but the issue 
continued.
Mr S complained to BM. BM didnt uphold the complaint. It said there wasnt enough 
evidence to confirm that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He wants to reject the car.
Our investigator upheld the complaint.  She said the evidence showed that there was a fault 
with the car which was present at the point of supply and that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. The investigator said that because repairs hadnt been successful, Mr S should be 
allowed to reject the car.
BM didnt agree. It said the dealership recalled helping Mr S with a battery issue in April 
2022 and had discussed Mr Ss use of the car with him and how this might impact on the 
battery. BM said the low mileage should be taken into consideration as a factor affecting the 
performance of the battery. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of 
goods includes their general state and condition, as well as other things including fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
I would expect a second hand car  such as that supplied to Mr S  to have a degree of 
wear and tear and to require more repairs and maintenance than, say, a brand new car. So, 
in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres a fault with the car 
which was present or developing at the point of supply as opposed to a fault which occurred 
due to general wear and tear.
Under the relevant legislation, where a car has a fault which makes it of unsatisfactory 
quality in the first 6 months, its assumed that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ive reviewed all of the available evidence about the issues with the car. Based on what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that theres a fault with the car. This is based on Mr Ss testimony that 
there have been issues with the battery from the outset. Ive seen correspondence between 
Mr S and the dealership which shows that the car went in for repairs for battery issues 
shortly after the point of supply.
Ive also seen a report from a mechanic which states that the battery had zero volts and 
wasnt charging. The report states that a new battery was required and that the fuse box and 
starter motor needed to be cleaned or replaced.
I can see that the supplying dealer agreed to replace the battery in April 2022, around 3 
months after the point of supply. 
Mr S experienced issues with the battery again in October 2022, Ive seen an invoice dated 
October 2022 which states that a control unit error is causing the battery to drain. The 
diagnostic notes state that a new battery is required.
Ive also seen a diagnostic report dated December 2022. This states that the ECU has 
nonstandard software. The report advises that the software should be put back to standard 
and that this could be the cause of the issues with the car not starting.
Based on all the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that the car has a fault.
Ive taken into account what BM has said about Mr Ss limited mileage and how this might 
impact the battery. Whilst I accept that a car needs to be used in order to maintain battery 
charge, Im not persuaded that the issues here have been caused by Mr Ss use of the car. 
the weight of evidence suggests that there is a fault with the battery not holding charge 
and/or an issue caused by non-standard software in the ECU.
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
The issue with the battery was referred to the dealer in April 2022. Mr S has provided clear 
and consistent testimony that there were battery issues from the outset. Theres no evidence 
that Mr S was responsible for the issues with the battery, or the non-standard software 
installed in the ECU. Therefore, I think its likely that the car had a fault at the point of supply. 
Because of this, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Putting things right
Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. In 
this case, the information suggests that the dealership replaced the battery in April 2022. 
This attempt at repair wasnt successful because the same issue had presented again in 
October 2022. Im satisfied that the business has been given reasonable opportunity to 
repair the fault and that Mr S should be allowed to reject the car.
Mr S has told this service that he used the car from January 2022 until October 2022 but that 
he had to jump start it every time he used it. This has impacted on Mr Ss use of the car. I 
think its fair to ask BM to refund 50% of all payments made by Mr S during this period.Mr S hasnt used the car since October 2022. I think its reasonable that Mer S stopped using 
the car at this point. Because Mr S hasnt used the car, I think its fair to ask BM to refund all 
payments made since October 2022.
Mr S has provided this service with evidence of other costs hes incurred, including a 
diagnostic report. I think its fair to ask BM to refund these costs.
Its clear that Mr S has been caused a significant degree of distress and inconvenience as a 
result of being supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. Hes had to jump start 
the car every time he wanted to use it and has had to arrange alternative transport since 
October 2022. I think BM should pay compensation of £200 to reflect the impact this has had 
on Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Blue Motor Finance Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further for Mr S to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr S
Refund the deposit of £2000
Refund 50% of payments made from inception of the agreement to October 2022 to reflect 
impaired use
Refund all payments made from October 2022 to the date of settlement
Refund £211 for costs incurred by Mr S
Pay 8% simple interest per year on all amounts refunded payable from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement
Pay £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file in connection with this agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman