DRN-3937418
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) irresponsibly lent him money on several 
financial products he took out with them.
What happened
Mr D is a customer of Lloyds.
In August 2021, Mr D complained to Lloyds as he believed, among other things, that they did 
not help him with his repeated usage of his overdraft facility. He also thinks they mis-sold 
him a credit card and forced him into financial difficulties by giving him a loan. Mr D believes 
he has been made to pay charges on these products for the last 10 years despite repeated 
attempts to get help from Lloyds.
Mr D would like all his charges back, plus interest on the financial products he has taken out 
with Lloyds.
Lloyds responded to Mr D, referring to six products he had taken out with them. These 
consisted of 4 loans, 1 credit card, and 1 overdraft facility.
I have already commented in a separate decision on four of the products Mr D had taken out 
with Lloyds and explained why I dont think I could look into them. So I wont be providing 
any further comments to those here.
In relation to the two remaining products Mr D took out with Lloyds, one loan of £1,408.35 
was arranged in February 2016 for 12 months, making monthly repayments of around £134. 
Another loan of £1,600 was taken in August 2019 for 37 months, making monthly 
repayments of around £50. Lloyds say the August 2019 loan was arranged by their refinance 
team.
Lloyds said that they completed checks to see if Mr D could afford to repay them. They say 
they did this by using Mr Ds monthly income or take home pay and deducting living costs as 
well as any debt he may have already had. They say they also rely on information from 
credit reference agencies and after reviewing all the information, Mr D passed their checks, 
which is why they agreed to lend him the money on both occasions.
So, Lloyds say as there had been no banking errors regarding the lending of the loans, they 
are unable to refund any interest or charges.
Mr D, unhappy with Lloyds response, referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator found that in relation to the two loans, she didnt think there was enough 
evidence to say that Lloyds conducted reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr D would be able to repay them in a sustainable way. But she did believe that if 
reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, it would not have shown that Mr D 
wouldnt have been able to repay the loans in a sustainable way. She says she reached this 
conclusion as both loans were to refinance existing debt; and for the August 2019 loan, Mr D 
had completed an affordability plan for six months prior to taking it out. Mr D was able to 
keep up with those payments  and this suggested the loan was affordable.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators findings. As he disagreed, the complaint has been 
passed to an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 January 2023 where I explained why I intended to not 
uphold Mr Ds complaint. In that decision I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold this complaint and I wont be asking 
Lloyds to do anything further. Ill explain why below.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature 
of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
 including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach while deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Lloyds needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. This means it needed to carry out 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D could afford to repay the amount it was 
lending. A proportionate check is dependent on a number of factors including  but not 
limited to  Mr Ds particular circumstances (e.g. his financial history, current situation and 
outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost 
of credit obtained.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the amount lent was high, or the 
information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired credit history  suggested the 
lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to repay. Ive carefully 
thought about what this means for Mr Ds case.
In this case, Lloyds lent to Mr D on two occasions. Lloyds says it agreed to Mr Ds 
applications after carrying out credit searches and taking some income and expenditure 
information. On the other hand, Mr D says Lloyds didnt offer any assistance and could see 
his incomings were not getting him out of the position of having debt.
February 2016 loan  were reasonable and proportionate checks completed?
The loan was taken out online and the purpose of it was recorded as purchase of a car. It 
was also used to refinance an existing loan Mr D had at the time. The amount borrowed was 
around £1,400.
I cant see that a credit search was completed by Lloyds at the time and Lloyds hasnt 
provided copies of any searches that might have been completed. But Lloyds has provided 
details of Mr Ds declared income and expenditure for the February 2016 loan application 
and which they say they relied on when deciding to approve the loan. They say Mr Ds 
disposable income met their criteria and no issues were identified.As I cant see a credit check was completed, I dont think reasonable and proportionate 
checks were completed at the time this loan was approved, as it may have shown something 
Lloyds should have considered when thinking about lending to Mr D.
So Ive gone on to consider whether reasonable and proportionate checks would have 
shown that Mr D wouldnt have been able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way.
Having seen Mr Ds statements in the lead up to the loan being provided, I dont think there 
was anything concerning during that period. There wasnt anything in Mr Ds transactions, 
which contradicted the income and expenditure figures Lloyds say they had used as they 
were broadly similar.
Given the monthly repayment amount of the loan being around £134; Mr Ds income stated 
as £1,500; and his expenditure at the time being around £400 a month, I think it was fair to 
conclude the repayments looked like they shouldve been affordable for Mr D based on the 
information he gave Lloyds.
August 2019 loan  were reasonable and proportionate checks completed?
This loan was recorded as refinancing, and Lloyds say it was also used to absorb an 
existing Lloyds debt. Given it was for around the same amount as Mr Ds outstanding 
balance on his overdraft at the time it was taken out, Im satisfied that it was for debt 
consolidation. The loan was for £1,600.
For this loan, it is disappointing that Lloyds hasnt been able to provide Mr Ds income and 
expenditure details. They also say these loans arent assessed or granted via credit scoring. 
Lloyds say their refinance team completed an income and expenditure with Mr D and it 
produced a deficit. 
But Lloyds say Mr D agreed the repayment terms for this loan with their refinance team and 
they say Mr D reassured them that his income was flexible enough to be able to afford 
making the repayments.
As I dont have sight of an income and expenditure report being completed, or credit 
searches being made, I dont think reasonable and proportionate checks were completed at 
the time this loan was approved.
So Ive gone on to consider whether reasonable and proportionate checks would have 
shown that Mr D wouldnt have been able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way.
Allowing for the fact the August 2019 loan was taken out for debt consolidation  in other 
words, Mr D said he would use the loan to repay existing debt  Lloyds worked with Mr D 
and put in place an affordability plan for the preceding 9 months. Mr D was also consistently 
able to repay the amounts required in the affordability plan. So I think Lloyds were 
reasonably entitled to take a view that Mr D was borrowing specifically to help manage his 
finances more responsibly and it looked like he ought to be able to afford to do so on the 
figures it had worked out. 
So I think it was fair to conclude that the loan repayments looked like they shouldve been 
affordable for Mr D based on the information it had gathered.
Did Lloyds act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?Ive also looked at whether Lloyds was aware or ought to reasonably have been aware, that 
Mr D could be in financial difficulties by reviewing his use of his account. And if so, whether it 
was appropriate for Lloyds to apply any interest, fees and charges.
Once a lender is aware a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, we would expect it to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. Ultimately, 
wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of their circumstances and 
then assess the most appropriate way to move forward. 
Lloyds must also monitor their customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
February 2016 loan  did Lloyds do enough to support Mr D?
I can see from internal notes that Mr D made Lloyds aware of his difficulty to repay the 
February 2016 monthly instalments. Im sorry Mr D found himself in financial difficulty. I 
accept at times Mr D may have had to go into his overdraft and also had difficulty paying his 
February 2016 repayments in some months. However, I also am mindful that the purpose of 
Mr Ds loan was mainly to consolidate debt. 
Ive noted at times that Lloyds gave Mr D repayment holidays to help support him get back 
on track with his February 2016 loan and internal notes show they also refunded some 
charges for missed payments to give some breathing space. Im satisfied Lloyds did enough 
here once they were aware Mr D had financial difficulties.
August 2019 loan  did Lloyds do enough to support Mr D?
One of the ways in which a lender can provide forbearance and due consideration is by 
refinancing existing debt onto more affordable terms. So in this case, I think its fair to say 
that Lloyds supported Mr D by attempting to provide him with a consolidation loan in August 
2019 so he wouldnt need to rely on his overdraft facility as often. Having reviewed the 
account statements, Im satisfied the rescheduled terms were affordable to Mr D. And by 
rescheduling the debt, this would have prevented further overdraft interest and fees being 
applied to the account. Im satisfied Lloyds did enough here to support Mr D.
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some way. And, in this case, I dont think they had. I accept reasonable and 
proportionate checks may not have been completed by Lloyds in relation to the two loans 
taken out. But I think they made fair lending decisions based on the information it obtained. 
Im also satisfied Lloyds responded to Mr D with forbearance and due consideration once it 
was aware that he was in financial difficulty.
I appreciate my outcome will be very disappointing for Mr D, but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my intended decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
I gave both parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they 
wanted me to consider before issuing my final decision.
Responses to the provisional decision
Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr D responded but has provided comments to financial products I havent considered as 
part of this decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr D hasnt provided any specific comments in relation to the two loans Ive considered 
above, I see no reason to depart from it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman