DRN-3717114
The complaint
This complaint is about an outstanding sum on Mrs Rs mortgage account which 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) previously told her had been repaid in full.
What happened
In March 2021, Mrs R withdrew £53,000 from her Open Plan reserve account and around 
three weeks later, repaid it. Due to a processing error, Barclays applied the sum to her main 
mortgage account instead of her Open Plan account. This meant Mrs Rs mortgage account 
was showing as in credit by £23,104.04.
Mrs R raised this with Barclays in May 2021  she confirmed that the funds had credited the 
wrong account. Barclays looked into Mrs Rs complaint but found that her main mortgage 
had been repaid in full. It closed both of Mrs Rs accounts and refunded £23,104.04 to her 
current account. It also released the legal charge on her property and paid her £100 
compensation for any inconvenience caused.
Sometime later, in October 2021, Barclays informed Mrs R that it had made a mistake and 
that she would need to return the £23,104.04. Mrs R disputes this as her complaint was 
looked into before and she thought the matter was resolved. Mrs R says shes no longer 
able to return the funds.
Barclays looked into Mrs R s concerns and apologised for its mistake. It offered her £500 in 
compensation, confirmed that it hadnt reported the arrears to any credit reference agencies, 
but said that she would need to make arrangements to pay the sum credited to her in error 
as well as the outstanding balance on her main mortgage account.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Rs concerns and said that Mrs R would need to repay the 
outstanding sums to Barclays, but due to the stress and inconvenience caused, Barclays 
should increase its offer of compensation to £650. Barclays accepted this, but as Mrs R 
remained unhappy, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld in relation to the award for the 
stress and inconvenience caused to her. But I do not think Barclays is wrong to ask her to 
repay the balances cleared on her accounts in error.
Before I explain my findings further, I note that Mrs R has asked that I speak to her before 
deciding the case. Our investigator explained that generally all of the information we need 
will already be on the file, but that the ombudsman may make contact if necessary. Ive 
thought about Mrs Rs request, but this is a fairly straight forward complaint, and both sides 
have made their points clearly. Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied I dont need to 
speak to Mrs R to be able to fairly decide this complaint.
In March 2021, after Mrs R made her withdrawal, she owed £53,000 on her Open Plan 
account as well as the outstanding balance on her main mortgage account of £29,985.96. 
That means, in total, Mrs R owed Barclays £82,985.96. When Mrs R repaid £53,000, this 
was intended to go to her Open Plan account  her mortgage account should not have been 
credited, so she still would have owed £29,985.96. 
While Mrs R did the right thing and reported the issue to Barclays in May 2021, Barclays 
made another mistake  rather than debiting the £53,000 from her main mortgage account 
and crediting the Open Plan account to correct the balances on both of the accounts, it 
settled both accounts and refunded her the amount showing in credit on her mortgage 
account of £23,104.04. So, at this point, effectively, Mrs Rs Open Plan account closed while 
remaining in debit of £53,000. 
Mrs R now queries whether Barclays can reverse its decision  she feels the complaint 
outcome she accepted in May 2021 was legally binding. Ive thought about this, but as the 
ombudsman service is an informal resolution service, Im not in a position to say whether the 
outcome Mrs R accepted was legally binding or not. But the terms and conditions of Mrs Rs 
accounts do confirm that if an error is made in settling the accounts  Mrs R would not be 
freed from her personal liabilities. 
So, although Barclays made a mistake in clearing both balances  I dont think the 
outstanding sums can be written off now the error has come to light. Mrs R has still had the 
benefit of £53,000, so she needs to pay that back  her mortgage as originally arranged, 
along with the £23,104.04 that was credited to her current account in error.
Barclays has said that it will re-open Mrs Rs mortgage account and put it back in the 
position it would have been in had the error not occurred. It has also asked Mrs R to repay 
£23,104.04. Mrs R didnt think she needed to hold onto this sum, so she says its no longer 
available. Because of this, Barclays will need to arrange a repayment plan with Mrs R and 
any repayment plan should be fair  taking her current circumstances into consideration.
I now have to consider the impact of the problems Mrs R experienced and whether Barclays 
has done enough to put things right.
It took Barclays around seven months to inform Mrs R of the mistakes it had made, despite 
her having told them what had gone wrong in May 2021. Mrs R has received a number of 
letters that concerned her. And there were times when Barclays didnt respond to her 
enquiries. Mrs R has understandably been worried about the possibility of this impacting her 
credit file or having her home repossessed even though Barclays has reassured Mrs R not 
to worry about this.
To my knowledge, Mrs Rs credit file has not been impacted and she remains in her home, 
but she has had to correspond with Barclays several times, over several months, and I think 
whats happened will have been very upsetting to her. Considering everything, I agree with 
our investigator that the award should be increased to £650. I think this is fair and in line with 
what we would usually award under similar circumstances.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Increase the compensation offered to £650 in total.
Arrange a repayment plan with Mrs R directly. Any repayment plan should be fair  taking her current circumstances into consideration.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint and Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should put things right in line with what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman