DRN-3331113
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC stole money from her, and mis-treated her 
when she used their branch to carry out a transaction.
What happened
Mrs M says that on 27 September 2021 she visited a Barclays branch to make an 
international transfer. Mrs M said she was being asked various questions about the transfer 
which made her feel uncomfortable. Mrs M then said she handed over £2,300 to the cashier 
so she could complete her transfer, however when the cashier told her they couldnt process 
the transaction for lack of information, Mrs M decided to pay the money into her account. 
Mrs M said she didnt receive a receipt. 
Mrs M says she went back to the branch on 1 October 2021 to complete the transaction but 
was told that shed only paid in £1300 on 27 September 2021. Mrs M said she disagreed 
with the cashier, however, was told by the staff that theyd call the police as she was being 
disruptive. Mrs M says the police suggested she visit another branch to try and resolve the 
matter but when she went to another branch she wasnt able to resolve things.
Later that day Barclays sent Mrs M a two-week notice to close her account, saying they 
found her behaviour towards their staff earlier that day was unacceptable.
On 2 October 2021 Mrs M complained to Barclays about how she had been treated, 
believing the whole situation was a scam. She asked for her money back along with an 
apology. 
On 7 October 2021 Barclays sent their final response to Mrs Ms complaint, they didnt 
uphold her complaint. Barclays said they retained a digital receipt of Mrs Ms transaction 
which showed that she had paid in £1,300 on 27 September 2021, and so they decided 
against investigating further.  
Unhappy with their decision Mrs M brought her complaint to this service for investigation. 
Mrs M advised on 2 December 2021 that due to the closure of her account she was no 
longer covered by an insurance that she was paying for through her account. Mrs M also 
explained the personal impact this had on her, which included adversely triggering her 
mental health condition. 
Our investigator gave their view that Barclays had acted fairly in the circumstances and 
didnt ask them to do anything more.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mrs M asked that her complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Its not in dispute that Mrs M went into a Barclays branch on 27 September 2021 to carry out 
a transaction. Both Mrs M and Barclays have confirmed this in what theyve told us. 
However, what is in dispute, and what Ive considered  is whether Barclays treated Mrs M 
fairly when she used their branch on that day, whether it was likely she paid in £2,300 and 
Ive also considered if it was reasonable for Barclays to close Mrs Ms account following their 
interaction with her.
Mrs M explained that while she was in the branch to pay the money in, she took £2000 from 
a brown envelope clipped with a yellow staple, as shed been taught to do by her husband to 
make things easier, and she took £300 from another envelope in her bag. I find Mrs Ms 
version of events to be specific and fairly detailed, so Im persuaded that Mrs M intended 
and believed she was paying £2,300 into her account that day. 
However, Barclays have provided us with a digital receipt showing that £1,300 was paid into 
Mrs Ms account that day. They also provided us with a copy of their till balancing sheet 
which showed the till used by Mrs M was short by £20. So, from the evidence provided Im 
satisfied only £1,300 was paid into Mrs Ms account that day.
Mrs M strongly believes that Barclays had taken £1,000 from the £2,300 that she gave them 
on 27 September 2021. Ive thought about this carefully. Mrs M said she hadnt been given a 
receipt at the time so was unable to evidence the amount shed paid in. I have no evidence; 
besides what Mrs M has said that she hadnt been given a deposit receipt. 
Mrs M has been unable to provide any further evidence that Barclays took £1000 from her. I 
acknowledge the information that Mrs M has provided in support of her complaint, including 
information relating to a previous situation involving lost money, however Im not persuaded 
that any of it proves or suggests that Barclays have inappropriately taken or withheld any 
money from her. In addition, from the evidence provided, Ive no reason to think that the staff 
at that branch of Barclays would target Mrs M for theft. Overall, from the information 
provided, I think its more likely that Mrs M had paid £1,300 into her account on 27 
September 2021. And so, from the evidence provided Im satisfied that Barclays had acted 
appropriately.
Following the events in the branch, on 1 October 2021 Barclays sent Mrs M a letter giving 
her two weeks notice that her account would be closed. In the letter Barclays advised this 
was in response to Mrs Ms behaviour in the branch. Mrs M also confirmed that shes 
received the letter and has said it was unfair of Barclays to take that action against her.
Barclays provided us with a report from the branch manager detailing their version of events 
from 27 September 2021. The report explained that Mrs M shouted at the staff, was being 
aggressive, had disrupted other customers and used profane language towards staff in the 
branch. Barclays provided us with a copy of a branch poster which advised that anyone 
demonstrating physical or verbal abuse would be reported to the police and have their 
accounts closed. 
In a phone call to our investigator in February 2022, Mrs M acknowledged that she was 
verbally abusive towards the staff while she was in the branch. However, she went on to 
explain that this was her way of coping or dealing with the situation and she didnt intend any 
personal harm to anyone. Overall, Im persuaded from the information provided that the 
events in the branch took place as described in the branch report.Having considered this, I think Mrs Ms actions need to be taken in context with her 
vulnerability and mental health. Mrs M has been very open about her struggles with different 
mental health conditions and of the steps she takes to avoid suffering from a panic attack in 
certain situations.
In July 2019 the financial conduct authority (FCA) published guidance for businesses on the 
fair treatment of vulnerable customers. The guidance focusses on understanding 
vulnerability, the skills and capabilities of staff, taking practical action; and monitoring and 
evaluation. Having considered this guidance, along with the evidence provided, Ive no 
reason to think that Barclays treated Mrs M unfairly in this situation. 
I acknowledge that Barclays placed a care marker on Mrs Ms account to highlight her 
vulnerability. I think the care marker would have given the staff an awareness that Mrs M 
was dealing with mental health issues, but I dont think knowing about her vulnerabilities 
means the staff should have to accept abuse as a result, whether that be physical or verbal. 
So, although I empathise with Mrs M, and acknowledge the steps shes taken to deal with 
her mental health, I dont think the staff should have to put up with that level of abusive 
behaviour, whether it was intended or not. In the circumstances I think Barclays acted fairly 
and in line with their policy by issuing Mrs M with a notice of closure to her account.
Mrs M said the closure of her account caused problems with an insurance policy that she 
was paying by direct debit. However, Mrs M confirmed to us that shed received the notice of 
closure letter from Barclays. So, Im satisfied that Mrs M had sufficient time to contact the 
necessary companies who may have been affected by the closure of her Barclays account.
I do appreciate that Mrs M didnt intend to personally insult anyone whilst in the Barclays 
branch. However, having reviewed all the information provided, I think Barclays acted fairly 
throughout their dealings with Mrs M, and so I wont be asking them to do anything in 
relation to this complaint.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman