DRN-4121229
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a buy-to-let mortgage he has with Barclays Bank UK Plc. He is 
unhappy that the interest rate product attached to the mortgage, which he was told would 
run for exactly two years, ended less than two years after the mortgage advance was paid 
out. 
Mr M has asked that he be compensated for having to switch to a new interest rate product, 
with a higher rate, earlier than he should have needed to.
What happened
Mr M applied for his mortgage in the autumn of 2020. The application was accepted, and he 
was sent a mortgage offer on 23 March 2021. This detailed that until 31 May 2023 the 
interest on the mortgage would be fixed at 2%. Mr M accepted the mortgage offer. There 
were then delays in the progress of the house purchase and it didnt complete until 
September 2021. 
Mr M complained when he was sent a reminder that the interest rate product would be 
ending in May 2023.
Barclays responded to the complaint in its letter of 31 January 2023. It highlighted that the 
mortgage offer said throughout the product would end on 31 May 2023. The reason that was 
less than two years from the point the advance was made, was because there were delays 
in the mortgage starting. As Barclays hadnt made a mistake about applying the product as it 
had, this part of the complaint was rejected. However, it accepted Mr Ms recollection about 
what he had been told by its mortgage adviser and said the mortgage adviser telling Mr M 
what he had recounted, would have represented poor service. Barclays offered Mr M £50 for 
any distress or inconvenience he may have suffered for being given incorrect information.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Barclays response and referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
As the mortgage was for a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage, Barclays has confirmed that it did not 
offer advice to Mr M. This is confirmed on the mortgage application. It has also confirmed 
that the application was completed over the telephone with one of its branch-based 
mortgage advisers. No recordings of the conversations are available as the mortgage 
adviser was using his mobile phone for such calls at the time. However, the adviser was 
asked for his comments. He has confirmed that he doesnt remember the individual 
customer, due to the passage of time. The adviser highlighted the application was completed 
on a non-advised basis and he confirmed that he would not have advised the end date 
shown on the offer was for information purposes.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She was satisfied the information Mr M was given clearly showed the end date of the 
product and there was a lack of supporting evidence that he had been told the product would 
end at any other point.
Mr M asked that the complaint be escalated to an Ombudsman. He highlighted that Barclays 
had upheld the complaint about him being given incorrect information and reiterated that he 
had been told the date on the mortgage offer was for illustrative purposes only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M took out the mortgage in question without advice, which means that Barclays would 
have provided him with information about the mortgage and product, but it would not have 
assessed whether they were suitable for him. That does not, however, mean that there 
would have been no discussion between Mr M and the mortgage adviser about how the 
product he had asked for would work. 
I would at this point explain to Mr M that lenders will borrow funds to be able to lend to their 
customers and provide interest rate products. The lender will have borrowed the money for a 
set period of time and has to repay it at the end of the borrowing term. As such, such 
products will be available for a relatively short period of time and once all the money within 
the lending tranche is reserved, the rate will be withdrawn. While such products will have a 
notional term attached to them, in this case two years, the product will actually have an end 
date that relates to the end date of the lenders borrowing. This is always the case with such 
products and so the lender will detail an end date for the rate in the mortgage offer. The end 
date is usually more than the notional term of the product to give the borrower time to accept 
the offer and complete on the property purchase. 
That was the case for Mr M  the end date was two years and two months in the future. It 
appears the reason the product ended less than two years into Mr Ms mortgage term was 
because there were delays in the purchase of the mortgaged property. This would not have 
been anticipated at the time the mortgage offer was made and is not something that was in 
Barclays control.
Mr M has acknowledged he knew the mortgage offer detailed an end date for the product of 
23 May 2023. However, he has said that the mortgage adviser told him that he could ignore 
the date, as the product would last for two years from the date of the mortgage advance. 
As I have detailed above, the mortgage adviser in this case has been asked for his 
recollections of the discussions, and he has confirmed he doesnt have any. That isnt 
surprising given the passage of time and the number of customers he would have spoken to 
since. However, the mortgage adviser would have been very aware of how such products 
work, and that a mortgage offer is a legally binding document. It is unlikely he would have 
told Mr M to ignore the documented end date of the product.
To uphold this complaint I must be persuaded that Mr Ms recollection of events is more 
likely than Barclays and what would be normal industry practice. I am not persuaded that is 
the situation in this case. That is not to say that I doubt Mr M has given us his genuine 
recollections of events, but simply that his recollections are not more persuasive than the 
evidence Barclays has provided and what we know about how such products work. 
Mr M has highlighted that Barclays paid him £50 compensation, and therefore, admitted that 
it had misled him. I have read that section of the final response letter several times and it is 
clear that Barclays made that offer solely based on what Mr M told it, because it didnt have 
a recording of the call. However, Barclays has since completed further investigation into the 
situation and when reaching my decision I have to take all of the information and evidence 
provided into account. As such, I dont consider Barclays comments and offer of £50 alters the conclusion I have reached based on all the evidence available. That said, Barclays has 
not said that it has withdrawn the offer it made to Mr M in light of the new evidence, and so 
he may wish to contact Barclays if he wishes to accept the offer made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
29 December 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman