DRN-2534020
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way that Santander UK Plc dealt with him when he was the victim 
of identity theft.
What happened
Mr W had a credit card account. He thought hed paid off the balance and that after that his 
account had been closed. But in April 2020 he received a letter from a debt collector to his 
new address and was told that he owed over £11,000 on the account. He contacted 
Santander and was unhappy to be kept on hold, to have to make multiple calls and then told 
he needed to visit a branch. This meant he couldnt attend an online training course and he 
wants to be compensated for this and for the anxiety he was caused.
Santander said that a third party had called it in May 2019 and asked that Mr Ws card 
account be kept open. That person had changed the contact details and obtained a new 
card. And had made a number of transactions. There were no repayments and the account 
had then defaulted. It accepted that Mr W had been the victim of fraud. And that the service 
it provided when he tried to report this was poor. It removed the debt from his name and paid 
him compensation of £150. It didnt accept that it should pay for his training course and the 
higher compensation of £2,000 that Mr W wanted. Santander said it contacted a credit 
reference agency when Mr W pointed out that the entry about this account hadnt been 
corrected there.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Santander do anything more. He said that we would 
be looking at the impact of what Santander did and not that caused by the fraudster. And we 
wouldnt be able to say how the fraud happened or look at Santanders processes. But we 
would look to put Mr W in the position he ought to have been in. 
The fraudster had sufficient information about Mr Ws account such that the contact details 
could be changed and so that was why there had been no contact with him until the letter 
from the debt collector dated 6 April 2020. 
Mr W said he was attending an online course from 9am to 5pm on 14 to 16 April 2020. Our 
investigator thought Mr W had the opportunity to contact Santander outside these hours after 
hed been alerted to the fraud. But even so his first call on 14 April 2020 had unfortunately 
been disconnected. And he hadnt been called back after 5pm following his further call the 
next day as Santander said he would. During a subsequent call on 16 April 2020 Mr W 
wasnt able to answer all the security questions and was told to go to a branch so his identity 
could be verified. He did so on 17 April 2020. Santander had then accepted that there had 
been fraud. It had asked that the credit reports be updated on 22 April 2020. When Mr W 
told Santander this hadnt been completed it said it rectified this. The compensation reflected 
what happened.
Mr W didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said that 
it had taken this service ten months to reach this conclusion. And he had missed the online 
training course because Santander didnt initially accept this was fraud. It took five days to 
clear his name and hours of calls and a branch visit. Mr W said he is out of pocket and the 
compensation was inadequate and a belated response to Santander wrongly asking him for 
repayment.  Santander hadnt shown it wasnt responsible for how the fraud happened in the 
first place and for how a card was reinstated to a false address. It hadnt stopped a flow of 
fraudulent payments. And it still had the previous and then correct details for him on record. 
He said that Santander should be brought to account for its appalling mishandling of this. 
And this was the reason there are regulatory bodies. This service needs to ensure that 
Santander learns the lessons from what happened, and he was amazed by our conclusions. 
The outcome isnt fair and justifiable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that Mr W felt great anxiety when he was contacted by debt collectors and told 
he owed over £11,000 on an account he thought had been closed. And he explained in his 
calls with Santander that he hadnt been sleeping and didnt seem to be getting anywhere 
despite the time he spent on the calls. He doesnt think hes had a proper explanation of 
what happened or that Santander has been held responsible.
I need first to confirm what this service is able to look at. We arent the regulator and we 
provide informal dispute resolution. We dont have a role in saying for example what 
Santander security processes should be. And nor to look into exactly how a fraud happened 
- thats a matter for the relevant authorities. I also need to take into account the extent of 
clear distress and inconvenience for Mr W caused by the fraudsters actions. I will look 
specifically at how the actions of Santander contributed to what happened.
There is no evidence that Santander didnt follow its processes when it was contacted by 
someone impersonating Mr W in May 2019. It had noted that this person was able to give 
correct personal information about Mr W and details of the account. And so, the fraudster 
was able to keep the account active and change the contact details and then receive a new 
card. Because this had happened Mr W knew nothing about this and the outstanding 
balance until the letter from the debt collector. And this made it difficult for Mr W to verify 
himself with Santander when he called as he didnt know the current information about the 
account still in his name.
Ive considered the contact notes and listened to the call recordings Santander has provided. 
A call Mr W made on 14 April 2020 was disconnected and he didnt make any further 
progress in a later call that day. And the next day by the time his call was connected Mr W 
said he didnt have time to speak to the fraud department due to his online course. I heard 
Santander promise him a call back between 5pm and 6pm that day which didnt happen. 
And when he phoned on 16 April 2020 during his limited lunch break he got through to the 
fraud department but says it couldnt tell him the details of the payments and then the line 
went dead. When he called back he unfortunately couldnt pass security and was told he 
would need to go to a branch. He did that on 17 April 2020 and spent more time there and 
was able to get Santander to start to investigate things. Based on this I fully appreciate the 
level of frustration he felt and the service he received.
All of the balance has been removed from Mr Ws name and Santander accepts that there 
was identity fraud. There would always have been some inconvenience and significant 
distress for Mr W as a result of the fraudsters actions. Santander wouldnt be able to confirm 
that there was fraud until it had completed its investigation. And although I know it didnt 
seem like this to Mr W it did conclude that there was fraud relatively quickly here due I think 
in no small part to Mr Ws perseverance.Mr W wants Santander to pay for the cost of his course. I accept that his mind was on the 
fraud itself, but I dont think that Santanders actions prevented him from attending it. I cant 
mandate how long it ought to take Santander to answer calls and it did seem that the fraud 
department operated outside business hours. And Mr W clearly tried although 
unsuccessfully to deal with this in the lunchtime breaks and asked it to call him back when 
convenient. So, taking this into account I know he will be disappointed when I say that I dont 
think its fair to require Santander to compensate him for this course.
I need to think about whether its payment for the poor service is reasonable. I think it is and 
reflects the missed call back and the issues I described above. Mr W had to explain what 
happened repeatedly and couldnt resolve things until he went into a branch. Having to go to 
a branch seemed a necessary inconvenience given the issues here but was something he 
could have been told about earlier. He wasnt given clear information about what he needed 
to do which I agree added to the significant distress caused by the fraudster and 
consequences of the fraud itself.
I know Mr W will remain dissatisfied with my conclusions here. I have considered everything 
he has said, and I think that the response by Santander to what happened, and the poor 
service has been appropriate.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Santander UK Plc need 
not take any more action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman