DRN-3696281
The complaint
Mrs F complaints the Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) blocked her account 
causing her distress, inconvenience and financial risk. 
What happened
Ms F has an account with Nationwide. On 1 April 2022, Nationwide took the decision to 
review Mrs Fs account. This meant her account access was restricted, although she could 
withdraw funds from branch and standing orders and direct debits could still leave the 
account. 
Mrs F got in touch with Nationwide when she realised her account had been blocked and 
asked that she gain access to her account. Her son, who is representing her on the case, 
said that she was very concerned as she had a lot of money in her account following the sad 
passing of her husband. He said that she was aware that insurance by the government only 
covers £85,000 per person, per institution, so she was very concerned to have significantly 
more than this within Nationwide accounts. 
The relevant department within Nationwide said they attempted to speak with Mrs F, but did 
not manage to have the detailed conversation they required until 22 April 2022. Once they 
had done this, they said they were satisfied that Mrs F was not at risk of financial harm, and 
removed the blocks from her account. 
Unhappy with what had happened, Mrs F complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened, and thought that Nationwide had acted 
correctly, but did think that the block remained in place longer than was strictly necessary, 
and so recommended that Nationwide pay Mrs F £75 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience this had caused her. 
Mrs Fs son, representing her, said they both disagreed with our investigators findings. In 
summary, they said: 
They were very concerned about the financial risk of holding so much money within 
one institution. 
They have not given any explanation as to why they restricted Mrs Fs account, 
beyond that they did it for her own protection, nor have they said who took the 
decision. He said head quarters blamed branch staff and branch staff blamed 
headquarters.
The block was put on about an hour after Mrs F opened an account with another 
building society and transferred £50,000 to it  so how could Nationwide justify 
saying that they were restricting her account to reduce risks to her, when she was 
moving money to reduce risk. 
Mrs Fs son asked if she could move money into escrow for her own protection, but 
they refused. This was not in line with their own literature. On one of the calls, they 
felt that Mrs F was almost laughed at for worrying about still having over £20,000 
beyond the insured limit. 
Our investigator focused purely on the 22 day delay in reopening her accounts rather 
than mentioning whether they correctly followed their own procedures. Mrs Ps son 
said individuals should not have to monitor institutions credit ratings on a daily basis 
in order to ease their minds. 
Whilst it was not about financial compensation, £75 was insulting given the stress 
induced. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mrs Fs account restriction and I am satisfied Nationwide followed the terms 
and conditions of Mrs Fs account when choosing to carry out the review. However, looking 
at the evidence Nationwide shared I think the review should have been completed sooner. I 
appreciate that Mrs Fs son has said they are unhappy that more detail has not been given 
about why this happened, but I am unable to go into detail about this here  other than to 
say that the restrictions were placed on her account in line with Nationwides duty of care for 
their members and their responsibility to safeguard her account. And I do not think it was 
wrong for them to do so. 
But, I do think they could have wound up their review in a more timely manner. And so it is 
the impact of the length of time they took doing their review that I confine my thoughts with 
regards to any assessment of the distress and inconvenience this caused her. 
I do appreciate that Mrs F had large sums of money within Nationwide accounts, and that 
this caused anxiety around the levels of protection available. As I dont think Nationwide was 
wrong to apply the block to her account, I think any anxiety Mrs F felt would have been there 
regardless  though the extra time their review took may have added to this.There was also 
no reason to think that the compensation scheme was in any way likely to be needed at the 
time  as I am unaware of any reporting which suggested Nationwide were about to 
collapse. And, we can see with the benefit of hindsight that they did not in fact collapse. So, 
whilst I have considered the impact on Mrs Fs well-being  but I cannot consider 
compensating for the fact her money could have been at risk, because any risk did not 
materialise and she did not lose her money.
This also applies to Mrs Fs son asking to move the account into escrow, or not feeling they 
were taken seriously on the phone. I do appreciate that financial businesses should follow 
their procedures  but we are not here to punish financial institutions, rather to put right any 
wrongs that have occurred by putting customers back into the position they would have been 
in, but for the wrong. And as no money was lost here, I do not think that Nationwide need do 
anything further to put Mrs F back into the position she would have been in, but for the 
divergence from procedure. 
So, having considered everything, I do think the recommendation of £75 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience suffered by Mrs F was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, 
and provided Nationwide have already paid this, I require them to do nothing further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that the £75 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mrs F was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman