DRN-3696590
The complaint
Mr H complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited declined a claim made on his 
motor insurance policy and that it further damaged his car. 
What happened
Mr H was involved in an incident and made a claim on his policy. Advantage took the car for 
inspection. The engineer said the car was in poor condition with pre-existing damage to the 
steering rack and all four tyres were bald with wire core exposed. The car was deemed to be 
a total loss. But Advantage declined the claim because the car was kept in an unroadworthy 
condition because of the tyres. Mr H thought he couldnt have known this and that the car 
had passed its MOT 5,000 miles previously. He wanted Advantage to pay his claim. He said 
Advantages agent had damaged the cars door handle in the recovery. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought it would 
be possible for Mr H to check his tyres condition without specialist equipment. He thought it 
was fair and reasonable for Advantage to decline the claim because of the policy terms and 
condition. He couldnt see evidence that Advantage was responsible for the damage to the 
door handle. He didnt think the long call waits Mr H had when he called Advantage had 
affected the progress of his claim. And so he didnt think Advantage needed to pay Mr H 
compensation for this. 
Mr H replied that the condition of the car hadnt caused or contributed to the incident. He 
said he had deliberately driven up an embankment after the brakes locked off whilst driving 
downhill. And that he hadnt lost traction. He said hed provided before and after 
photographs showing that the garage had damaged the door handle. Mr H asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From Mr Hs description of the accident, I can understand that it must have been a 
frightening experience for him and his family. Fortunately they were not hurt and managed to 
get home safely. 
Advantage said it had declined the claim because of the policys terms and conditions. In the 
General Conditions section of the policy booklet, Advantage states that if Mr H doesn't 
comply with the conditions of the policy, it can cancel the policy, refuse to deal with a claim 
or reduce the amount of a claim payment. It said the claim wasnt covered due to the 
following clause:
You, or any person in charge of your car, must protect it from damage or loss.
 You should maintain your car in an efficient and roadworthy condition and have a valid 
Department for Transport Test Certificate (MOT) if one is needed by law
 If the condition of the car causes or contributes to an incident, cover won't be provided 
under the Policy. Your Insurer's responsibility will be restricted to meeting obligations as 
required by Road Traffic Law. In those circumstances, they will recover from you, the driver, 
or any party responsible for the condition of the car, all sums paid (including all legal costs), 
whether in settlement or under a judgement, of any claim arising from the accident.
Advantage relied on an independent engineers report that said the car was in poor condition 
and:
all four tyres are bald with the inner wire core exposed.
The steering rack is also showing signs of long standing damage not related to the claim.
And he said the car had been unroadworthy and dangerous to drive before the claim. 
Mr H said that he wouldnt have known about the damage to the steering rack and he 
thought this may have been caused in the accident. I can see that the engineer said the 
damage was long-standing. And I havent seen any expert engineering evidence to counter 
this. But Advantage said that the condition of the tyres alone was sufficient reason to decline 
the claim. 
Mr H thought the condition of the inner tyre treads couldnt be seen without using specialist 
equipment. But I think our Investigator has already explained that checks of tyre treads can 
be easily done. And I think its reasonable to expect any driver to ensure that their car is 
roadworthy. 
Mr H said the car had a current MOT. But whilst this may show that the car met the required 
standards when the MOT was completed, I think its for Mr H to ensure that these standards 
are maintained, and his car is kept in a roadworthy condition. 
Mr H also disputed that the condition of the car caused or contributed to the accident. But Im 
satisfied that four bald tyres and a damaged steering rack would make the car difficult to 
manoeuvre in snow conditions. And so I think it was fair and reasonable for Advantage to 
conclude that the cars condition did contribute to the accident. 
So I think Advantage fairly and reasonably relied on the roadworthiness condition in the 
policy to decline the claim. I think this decision was in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions. And so I dont require it to pay Mr Hs claim.
Mr H said Advantages agent damaged his cars door handle. Hes provided photographs of 
the car on the recovery truck and the damaged handle. But I cant see from these that the 
recovery agent damaged the handle. So I agree with Advantage that there isnt evidence to 
show that its agent caused the damage. And so I dont require Advantage to take 
responsibility for this. 
Mr H was unhappy with the level of service he received from Advantage. He experienced 
long call waits and his emails werent promptly answered. I can understand that this must 
have been frustrating for him. But I cant see that this delayed the progress of his claim. And 
I wouldnt expect Advantage to contact Mr H unless it had updates on his claim. Advantage 
acknowledged and apologised for the call wait times. I think this was in keeping with our 
published guidance for the impact this had. And so I think that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman