DRN-1693887
The complaint
Mr O says AXA France IARD mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mr O took out in 1996. It was added to his 
account when he applied for the card in person.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Os case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Os complaint because I dont think AXA gave Mr O clear enough 
information about the policy. I say this because Mr O was self-employed, and because of 
this he wouldn't have been able to claim for unemployment. There is nothing to suggest 
that Mr O was given any information about this significant limitation in cover.
I dont think Mr O wouldve bought the policy if AXA had given him enough information about 
it. So, I think Mr O has lost out because of what AXA did wrong. 
Ive taken into account AXAs comments, including what it said about Mr O having initially 
said he was employed at the time of sale. But I still think I should uphold the complaint. Mr O 
made a number of complaints and was confused about the dates. Im satisfied with his 
explanation, given that hes said he was self-employed as a sole-trader for a couple of years 
before starting a limited company  and I can see that company existed. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr O in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already.
AXA should find out how much Mr O would owe on his store card if the policy hadnt been 
added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr O owes and what he would have 
owed.
If Mr O made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount it owes him.
If  when AXA works out what Mr O would have owed each month without PPI  Mr O paid 
more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the extra Mr 
O paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr O wouldve owed AXA 
something on his store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
AXA should tell Mr O what its done to work out the above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Os complaint.
AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman