DRN-1553756
 
The complaint
Miss E complains that Experian Limited hold information on her credit reference file which is 
inaccurate and out-of-date. 
What happened
Miss E entered into a number of financial arrangements with different businesses using a 
shortened version of her name. She says this was because some business data systems 
had constraints which meant she couldn't use her full name.
Some of her debts to those businesses were defaulted and others were settled. Information 
regarding those accounts which were defaulted or settled in the last six years appears on 
her credit reference file with Experian.
Miss E asked Experian to remove data relating to any accounts taken out in her shortened 
name - which is not her legal name. And she asked them to remove linked addresses 
relating to those accounts where she hadn't lived at the address in question for the previous 
six years.
Some of the account defaults and settlements have become more than 6 years old since 
Miss E made her complaint. The information relating to those accounts has been removed in 
line with Experian's data retention policies and processes.
Experian said they wouldn't remove the information relating to accounts less than six years 
from the date of default or settlement. They said they were accurately reporting information 
provided by the businesses concerned.
Miss E was unhappy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didn't think Experian had done anything wrong.
Miss E disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss E is pursuing court action against one business because she disputes the debt they're 
reporting to the credit reference agencies. So I can't consider that particular information in 
this decision. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts, so we can't look into 
matters that are going through the court process.
Miss E doesn't dispute that she had the other accounts or that she incurred the debts. Those 
debts are less than six years old (since the date of default or settlement), so they wouldn't 
yet be deleted under Experian's data retention policy. Experian are obliged, as a credit reference agency, to report accurate information which 
properly reflects an individual's creditworthiness. Miss E incurred those debts. The fact that 
she goes by different names - for whatever reason - doesn't alter that fact. And having a 
different legal name from the one in which she incurred those debts doesn't make Miss E 
more creditworthy.   
Experian are entitled, if not obliged, to report that data to potential lenders. And they're 
entitled to link addresses which relate to the accounts being reported. They've shown us that 
they've properly removed addresses - at the appropriate time - when the default or 
settlement with which they're connected is deleted.
So, I can't conclude Experian have acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way they've 
reported Miss E's credit reference information.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Miss E's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman