DRN-4007649
Complaint
Mr G complains that Allium Money Limited (Allium), has rejected the claim he made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he 
says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr G is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around June 2020, Mr G was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr G decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Allium. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mr Gs behalf under section 75 of the Act to Allium. The 
CMC said that, P had made a number of representations about the system that had turned 
out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr G to enter into 
the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding and pay for themselves over time 
The profit figures deliberately omitted finance charges 
Mr Gs roof was not fit for purpose due to poor orientation and shading 
Mr Gs electricity spend was already so low, there was little room for improvement 
The social energy payments were lower than expected 
Allium didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr G or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr G and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons: 
The CMC believes P deliberately used an unusual set of assumptions to overstate 
the returns and benefits of the system  the savings were therefore far higher. 
If the consumer had understood the true costs of the system, he would not have 
purchased the panels. 
Our investigator explained she still felt the assumptions used were reasonable and this did 
not change her view of the complaint. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has 
been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 of the Act. Section 75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr G paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Allium agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr G could claim against Allium, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have claimed 
against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in 
the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr G and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Allium.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr G says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Allium. These 
include the credit agreement and solar quote. Ive considered these, along with the 
consumers testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is 
most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Allium, has told 
this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of P 
would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the system, 
prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The cost of the system 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Mr G has said that if hed understood the true cost of the system, he would not have 
purchased the solar panels.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr G was told that the cost of the system was £11,323. The 
quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the cash price of the system was £11,323. The total amount of credit is £11,224 (after 
deducting a deposit of £99) and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£21,170.92.
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £117.21. But I note Mr 
Gs monthly payment is marginally different at £117.07  but I dont think this difference 
makes the quote mis-leading and it doesnt affect my overall view of the complaint. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
he was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, 
as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £11,323, it would 
cost Mr G more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
I understand there are parts of the quote that set out the profit without the finance charges, 
but the sections do specify these figures do not include finance charges. Customers are 
given the option to purchase the system without finance  so the quote includes sections 
with finance and sections without. As Ive explained above, I think it was clear that Mr G 
would be purchasing the system using an interest-bearing loan, so he needed to consider 
these figures in conjunction to his finance charges. Im not satisfied, bearing in mind the 
quote as a whole, that it was mis-leading in the way the CMC suggests. 
Self-funding 
Mr G has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the financial benefits provided by the system. This system was sold in 2020, so 
the benefits of the system were only savings that could be achieved through electricity 
savings and social energy payments. 
The what will you earn and save per year? Section of the quote sets out what the system 
would expect to produce over the 30-year expected lifetime of the system. I copy of the first-
year estimates for ease of reference below. 
The expected year one electricity savings is £121.12 and, when taking into account the 
social energy figure, the combined savings in year one is shown as £210.05, and the 
monthly return is only £17.50. This is clearly set out and Im satisfied the table is easy to 
understand. As outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out 
that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of around £117. As a result, Im not able 
to conclude that the consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered 
by the benefits provided by the system.
Theres a section headed All of our payment options with several tables showing the 
repayments over various different loan terms. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as 
this is the length of the loan that Mr G entered into with Allium. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £117.21. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £117.21, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
The table clearly sets out that, the overall income Mr G could expect to receive by way 
savings and social energy payments would not be sufficient to cover the monthly loan 
repayments throughout the duration of the loan. Ive carefully thought about the consumers 
version of events. However,  as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales 
process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably 
find that Mr G was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the financial 
benefits provided by the system. Im satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand 
and on balance Im also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
I would add that, as explained above, the what will you earn and save per year? page of the 
quote has a table detailing the performance over 30 years. This shows that the overall 
benefits that Mr G could expect to receive would not exceed the total amount payable under 
the loan agreement. So it doesnt look like it was presented to him as self-funding. 
While Ive thought carefully about Mr Gs testimony, I find the documents from the time of 
sale to be more persuasive in terms of what information Mr G was likely given at the time of 
sale. So, I dont think its likely that P sold the system to Mr G on the basis that it was self-
funding, when the documents clearly show it wouldnt be. So, on balance, I think the 
evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a misrepresentation of this nature that would 
enable me to uphold this complaint.
Other issues 
Suitability of Mr Gs roof  The CMC says that Mr Gs roof was not fit for solar panels 
due to poor orientation and shading. Ive considered the performance of the system 
and whether this is in line with the contract between P and Mr G. The MCS certificate 
and quote sets out that the system is expected to produce 3,016 kWh a year. Based 
on Mr Gs meter reading, the system, on average, has generated 3,625.84 kWh. This 
is quite a bit more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im satisfied that the 
system is performing as expected. And I dont think theres sufficient evidence that P 
did anything unreasonable regarding this issue. 
Electricity savings  I understand the CMC feels that Mr Gs electricity spend was 
already quite low, around £33 a month so there was little room for saving any further. 
However, as explained by our investigator, Ps estimate for Mr Gs electricity savings 
was bespoke and based on information given by Mr G. The pre installation spend in 
the quote is also broadly in line with the CMCs estimate. I can also see the quote 
makes clear his electricity saving for the first year is only £121.12 which results in an 
average monthly saving of around £10. While the achievable savings may be low in 
the view of the CMC, I think P made clear what those savings were likely to be and 
calculated them reasonably. Im, therefore, satisfied that P gave Mr G clear 
information and he was able to decline to proceed with the sale if this wasnt 
worthwhile for him. So, I cannot see that P made any errors here. 
Social energy payments - I understand Mr G is disappointed with the social energy 
payments he receives from the system. As explained by our investigator, these 
payments are dependent on how much unused energy a consumer is able to sell 
back to the grid and therefore will fluctuate depending on how much energy Mr G 
uses and saves. As the system is overperforming in terms of generation, its likely 
that Mr G is using more energy than P estimated - but I dont think that amounts to a 
misrepresentation. 
Office of National Statistics (ONS) Assumptions  finally I can see the CMC has 
pointed out that P used ONS data between 2005 and 2018 (13-year period) to 
calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. The CMC says suppliers in the industry 
usually use a period of 10 or 15 years and also use the period immediately before the 
sale. As this was a 2020 sale, the CMC feels P ought to have used a more standard 
time period as well as updated assumptions including the 2019 figures  this would 
have resulted in lower estimates being given to Mr G. The CMC feels P deliberately 
used a non-standard set of assumptions to inflate the figures. 
But as explained by our investigator, it can take some time for the ONS to publish its 
data, and then suppliers will need some further time to update their assumptions. I 
can see in the quotation document, P set out what savings Mr G was estimated to 
achieve and also specified what data they were using to calculate that. The data was 
accurate and covered the relevant time period set out. 
The system is also not self-funding even with the actual estimates given. As 
explained above, the year one benefit was only £210.05 against the annual cost to 
the loan of around £1,406.52 (£117.21 X 12). And the 30-year figure shows that the 
overall benefits that Mr G could expect to receive would not exceed the total amount 
payable under the loan agreement. The quote illustrated a significant shortfall 
between the cost and the benefit based on the assumptions used so I do not see why 
P would deliberately use them  the actual figures do not indicate the system will be 
self-funding. And despite the shortfall, Mr G doesnt appear to have been deterred 
from proceeding with the sale. Bearing this in mind, Im not satisfied that P 
deliberately Misled Mr G. 
I would add that we have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale. 
That may also explain why Mr G may not be receiving the financial returns he may 
have been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been 
lower than the modelling predicted, the benefit achieved through the energy 
generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
But as I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information 
available from the ONS and I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial benefits. So, Im not persuaded that 
this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr G entered 
into the contract.
Overall, I am still of the view the assumptions used were within a reasonable range 
and were accurately set out. So, this does not change my view of the complaint. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr G to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.So overall, Im satisfied that Allium did not act unreasonably or unfairly when declining the 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman