DRN-2222220
The complaint
Miss N complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) lent to her irresponsibly.  
 
What happened
Miss N approached Drafty for a running credit facility in May 2016. Miss N was given a 
facility with a credit limit of £950. Drafty appears to have suspended the account in 2019. I 
understand Miss N is currently in a debt management plan to repay the outstanding balance 
through a third party.   
This was a running credit account where a consumer could either request funds up to their 
agreed credit limit in one go or take multiple drawdowns up to their limit. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Ns complaint. He thought that the checks Drafty 
carried out before granting the facility were proportionate, so it wasnt wrong for Drafty to 
have initially approved it. But, he thought from 29 April 2017 the facility was no longer 
suitable or sustainable and that Drafty shouldve therefore stopped lending. The adjudicator 
said that the pattern of borrowing had become indicative of someone experiencing financial 
difficulties and an over reliance on the facility.  
Miss N appears to agree with the adjudicators view. Drafty hasnt responded so I dont know 
what it thinks about the adjudicators view. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve also set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including 
all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Miss N doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Drafty wasnt wrong to 
have granted the facility or its drawdowns before 29 April 2017. It seems therefore that this 
lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer think that I need to make a finding about it. 
So instead, this decision will focus on whether Drafty did anything wrong when it granted the 
drawdowns from 29 April 2017. But Ive kept the previous lending in mind when thinking 
about the overall lending relationship between Drafty and Miss N. 
Its important to look at how Miss N used the facility with a view to see if there was a point at 
which Drafty should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. This is because although it doesnt appear to be in dispute that Drafty 
wasnt wrong to have provided the facility, that wasnt the end of its obligation to Miss N.  
When the facility was approved, Drafty was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). The FCA had issued guidance on this type of lending and what it says should be 
expected from lenders when granting these types of loans. Within the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R says:
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties 
In practice this meant Drafty needed to be mindful of how Miss N used the facility in order to 
step in if and when she showed signs of possible financial difficulties. 
I agree with the adjudicator that Drafty shouldnt have granted further drawdowns from         
29 April 2017. 
When Miss N was given the facility, there was an expectation that shed repay what she 
borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable period of time. So, I think that this means 
the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough information for it to be able to 
understand whether Miss N would likely be able to service and then repay this facility within 
a reasonable period.
But this clearly wasnt happening. By 29 April 2017, Miss N had been using the facility for 
almost 12 months and hadnt made any headway into repaying what shed borrowed. 
Instead, Miss N was effectively servicing the debt, by making payments at or around the 
minimum payment. 
Around two weeks after the facility was granted Miss N had drawn down four times taking 
her balance to the facilitys credit limit. Over the remainder of 2016 and into 2017 Miss N 
then usually made only the minimum repayment. And not long after each repayment she 
generally drew down again taking her outstanding balance back up to the credit limit. 
Miss N didnt drawdown more than once or twice each month from July 2016. However, the 
amounts she did draw down were limited because for the most part shed only been paying 
the minimum payment and her account remained around the facilitys credit limit. And even 
on the one occasion in September 2016 when Miss N made a payment above the minimum, 
she drew down straight away  with the drawdown taking her balance back up to the 
facilitys credit limit. A sign that she wasnt repaying the lending sustainably. 
So, by the end of April 2017 she still owed Drafty around £1,000 and hadnt, it appears, been 
able to make any reduction in her debt which had been around the credit limit for almost a 
year. 
Drafty has also said that it asked Miss N about her monthly expenses over the period of 
lending. I think though that, almost a year into the lending relationship, and with no sign that 
Miss Ns debt was reducing, Drafty ought to have verified the information she was providing. 
Rather than just rely on what it was being told by Miss N. 
At this point Drafty couldve asked for evidence of her income and expenditure through wage 
slips, bills, a copy of her credit file or bank statements over previous months to gain a better 
understanding of Miss Ns finances. 
Miss N has provided us with her bank statements, so I dont think it is unreasonable to use 
these in order to gain an understanding of her actual financial position at the time. Having 
looked at these from February 2016 I think it is reasonably clear that Drafty shouldnt have 
allowed any further drawdowns. 
It seems that Miss Ns regular outgoings together with payments to quite a significant 
number of other short-term lenders and other loan providers exceeded her income. I think 
the extent of the monthly commitments to other lenders would of itself have indicated that Miss N appeared to have become reliant on this type of lending. And I think proportionate 
checks would likely shown this position. As a responsible lender I think Drafty ought to have 
realised that Miss N wouldnt be able to sustainably take on any further drawdowns.
So, overall, I agree with our adjudicator that it wouldve been fair and reasonable for Drafty 
not to have granted further drawdowns on Miss Ns facility from 29 April 2017. Drafty should 
also remove any negative information from Miss Ns credit file from this date.
Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, Drafty can, if it wishes, buy the debt back and then 
carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to, or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it 
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.  
remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance that were 
applied from 29 April 2017;
Drafty should rework the account from 29 April 2017 so Miss N only has to repay the 
principal borrowed and it should treat any repayments made by Miss N as if it went 
towards the principal balance;
If and when Miss N has repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment 
should be refunded to Miss N. To this overpayment 8% simple interest a year should 
be added from the date the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above, an outstanding principal balance remains, Drafty 
should try and make an arrangement with Miss N to repay the balance (if repayments 
havent continued to be made under her DMP). But Id remind Drafty of its obligation 
to treat Miss N fairly;  
remove any negative information about the facility from Miss Ns credit file from 29 
April 2017.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give 
Miss N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Miss Ns complaint. Gain Credit LLC should put 
things right for Miss N as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman