DRN-4117115
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading 
as Cashplus Bank (APS) wont refund payments it didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
Mrs C, a director of M, brings the complaint on Ms behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, in August 2022 Mrs C, the director of M, was tricked over the phone 
by scammers impersonating APS into providing details enabling them to make payments 
totalling £34,850 out of Ms APS account.
APS recovered and refunded some of the money to M. Remaining unhappy, Mrs C referred 
Ms complaint about APS to our service. One of our Investigators looked into things and 
recommended APS refund M its remaining loss with interest, because M didnt authorise the 
transactions and hadnt been grossly negligent. APS disagreed and asked for an 
Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt seem to be disputed that M didnt authorise the relevant transactions. But for the 
sake of completeness, I should make it clear I agree with our Investigators findings. The 
payments should only be treated as authorised if M consented to them. In this case, Im 
satisfied Mrs C (and therefore M) was tricked into sharing details enabling scammers to 
make payments out of Ms account. But that M never expected payments to be made out of 
its account as a consequence, nor did it ever consent to these payments. So these 
payments were unauthorised. The starting point under The Payment Services Regulations 
2017 is that APS is liable for unauthorised payments. 
APS asserts (in essence) it shouldnt have to provide a refund because M, with intent or  
gross negligence, failed to comply with its obligations as a payment service user. But Im not 
persuaded APS has shown this to be the case. 
Mrs C received a call that appeared as Cashplus on her phone. The caller said they were 
from Cashpluss fraud team and took Mrs C through a process that involved tricking her into 
de-registering her phone and registering their own as a trusted device for Ms account; and 
into providing them with a One Time Passcode (OTP) enabling fraudulent payments to be 
made. 
APS has said the ability of fraudsters to spoof numbers is well publicised in the general 
media and how to protect yourself Cashplus emails. But given how the call appeared and 
happened, and the pretext on which the scammers were calling Mrs C, I can see why Mrs C 
trusted they were from Ms genuine bank  I think lots of people wouldve done. 
APS has referred to Mrs C de-registering her phone and sharing an email and OTP with the 
scammer. It says the OTP text messages clearly state dont share with anybody and that 
Mrs C nevertheless did this ignoring an obvious risk. But this was a sophisticated scam, and 
I can understand how Mrs C was tricked into believing she was protecting her account. And 
even if I thought Mrs C hadnt acted perfectly reasonably (and Im not saying I do think that), 
taking all the circumstances into account I still wouldnt be persuaded she fell so far below 
what a reasonable person wouldve done that she failed with gross negligence.
Im satisfied therefore that these transactions were unauthorised; that M didnt fail in its 
obligations with intent or gross negligence; and that APS needs to put things right by 
refunding M its losses from these unauthorised transactions alongside 8% simple interest 
per year to compensate M for the time its been out of pocket. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited to:
pay M the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount already refunded; 
and 
pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman