DRN-3640440
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as W has complained that Lloyd & Whyte Ltd (L&W) mis-sold its 
business interruption insurance policy. 
Mr D, a director of W, have complained on Ws behalf. 
What happened
W held business interruption insurance through L&W which renewed in August 2019. W 
claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments 
response to the pandemic. Ws insurer turned down its claim. The insurer said that the policy 
generally covered claims for business interruption as a result of damage and Covid-19 
hadnt caused damage. They said that while the policy provided cover for a list of specified 
diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the specified diseases. 
W complained to L&W about the sale of the policy. It said that it had paid a significant 
amount for cover and therefore expected to be covered when it was impacted by the Covid-
19 pandemic. 
L&W said they had recommended a policy that was suitable for Ws needs. They said it 
wasnt reasonable to expect them to anticipate that W might need cover for an unknown 
disease and even if they had looked for cover for pandemics it would have been prohibitively 
expensive.  
Unhappy with L&Ws response, W brought its complaint to us. It said it had bought an 
expensive product and knew of other businesses within its industry that had received 
payment for claims in similar circumstances. It said it had a reasonable expectation of being 
covered, given the price of the policy and that there were no applicable exclusions. W said it 
had called L&W in March 2020 and initially been told it wouldnt be covered because Covid-
19 hadnt been declared a pandemic but then was later told that even though Covid-19 had 
been declared a pandemic, it still wasnt covered. 
Our investigator looked into Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think L&W had mis-sold the policy. 
W asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact of the pandemic on Ws business. However, Im not
going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Renewal
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that when selling a policy a firm
should specify its customers demands and needs and propose a policy thats consistent
with them. As this was an advised sale, L&W had to take reasonable care to ensure the
suitability of their advice, as well as a general duty to provide information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading. Im going to focus on the renewal which took place in August 2019 as 
that was the policy in place at the time of the claim. 
The Demands and Needs section of the renewal document says that W would like to be 
covered for business interruption. I can understand that it would want some level of disease 
cover, but I havent seen anything to indicate that a wider cover for diseases was something 
which was particularly relevant to W at the time it bought the policy. I also can see that the 
renewal document was sent to W for it to check that it remained satisfied with the level of 
cover. 
Different policies cover different risks and I havent seen anything to persuade me that L&W 
sold W a policy that wasnt consistent with its demands and needs. While Ws policy didnt 
provide cover for the circumstances of its claim, I cant reasonably expect L&W to have 
anticipated in August 2019 that the industry would require cover for a national pandemic 
from an unknown disease. 
I dont find it unusual for a policy to not cover every eventuality and while some other polices 
available to W might ultimately have been found to provide cover, I dont believe that L&W 
did anything wrong in recommending the policy they did. Id expect L&W to highlight 
anything significant within the policy, but I dont think the lack of cover for a pandemic or 
Government lockdown was significant at the time the policy renewed. I also dont think the 
lack of an exclusion should reasonably have created an expectation of cover as an exclusion 
would only be relevant if part of the policy looked to provide cover. 
I understand Mr D was frustrated to find that Ws policy didnt provide cover for the 
circumstances of its claim, but I think L&W proposed a policy that was consistent with its
demands and needs and provided information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
I think they took reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of their advice, so it follows that I 
dont think L&W mis-sold Ws policy.
Phone call
L&W have provided a call which took place on 12 March 2020. L&W said they dont have a 
record of a previous call, but I think one is likely to have taken place as Mr D refers to the 
previous call during the call itself. During this call, L&Ws agent explained why Covid-19 
wouldnt be covered on a separate policy which was due for renewal. 
I appreciate it would have been frustrating if L&W werent clear about why Ws claim 
wouldnt be covered in a previous call but even if they werent clear, I havent seen anything 
to indicate this caused W a loss it wouldnt otherwise have had, as both calls correctly 
indicated that there wasnt cover. 
I recognise that this isnt the outcome W was hoping for but having considered things very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require L&W to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman