DRN-1552602
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mr and Mrs Y payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2008. 
The sale took place during a phone call. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs Y disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Y have said it wasnt made clear that the PPI was optional.  The problem 
I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words used by 
the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly 
set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth 
having. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real sensible 
alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure 
exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say Lloyds did something wrong 
unless I had stronger evidence of this.
 
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs Y, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Ys particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ys situation at the 
time: 
Its likely Mr and Mrs Y were eligible for the policy. The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr and Mrs Y received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay Mrs Y received  and Mr Y was self-
employed by his own company, so wouldnt have received redundancy pay if his 
work stopped. So PPI would have put off the time when Mr and Mrs Y would need to 
fall back on any savings or other means they may have had for paying the mortgage 
and other living costs. This all would have put Mr and Mrs Y in a more secure 
position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out.
 
Mr and Mrs Y say the PPI wouldnt have been useful for Mr Y, if he lost his work, because he 
was self-employed. Its true that many PPI policies made it hard for self-employed people to 
make a claim. But Ive looked at the wording of this policy, and it doesnt make it 
unreasonably difficult  I think hed have been covered, and wouldnt have found it too hard 
to make the claim. 
Mrs Y says she had two medical conditions which made the PPI unsuitable, because they 
would have been excluded under the policy term about pre-existing conditions.  I cant know 
what discussions took place about these. The documents at the time show that at least one 
of the conditions was talked about  the notes of the adviser refer to the medical condition. 
But its not clear whether the other medical condition was discussed  Mrs Y has sent me a 
copy of some notes she said she made around the time of the sale, which mention both 
conditions. Though I can see that these are written on the letter of confirmation about the 
PPI, so would have been made after the PPI actually started. 
So I dont have clear evidence to tell me whether Mr and Mrs Y mentioned the medical 
conditions to the adviser, and whether the adviser made clear the limitations in the policy as 
it affected their situation. So Ive looked at two things:
If the adviser had given full information, is it likely Mr and Mrs Y would have decided 
not to take the PPI? 
Did the medical conditions mean it was wrong to recommend the policy?
 
I cant be sure what decision Mr and Mrs Y would have made with different information, but I 
do have to think what is the most likely thing, based on what evidence there is. And I think 
its likely that Mr and Mrs Y wouldnt have made a different decision about taking PPI, even if 
they had fully understood the potential limitations on claiming for sickness related to Mrs Ys 
existing medical conditions. I say this because Mrs Y has said that, although she had been ill 
with it at first, one of her medical conditions was controlled with medication, and hadnt ever 
affected her ability to do her job. 
Her other medical condition had been treated with surgery a few years before, although she 
was having regular follow up consultations for a few years, as is standard with this kind of 
condition. 
In those circumstances, I think the likelihood of needing to make a claim as a result of those 
particular medical conditions would have seemed low, and the other benefits of the policy 
would still have been there to make the cover worthwhile. 
I dont think Mrs Ys medical conditions meant the recommendation of the PPI was an 
unsuitable one. First, there were the other benefits in the policy  cover for redundancy, and 
full cover for Mr Y if he fell sick; and cover for Mrs Y if she fell sick for reasons other than her 
pre-existing conditions. And secondly, as Ive explained above, the likelihood of her needing to make a claim for her pre-existing medical conditions was low. So the PPI was still 
potentially useful to them. 
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy during the 
actual sales call. But, given the evidence of discussions, I think its likely at least the basic 
information was shared. I think its unlikely any missing information would have made a 
major difference to whether Mr and Mrs Y decided to take the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman