DRN-4338785
The complaint
Miss S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund the 
money she lost. 
What happened
Miss S says she was a full-time carer for her daughter and needed some additional space so 
looked into having a summerhouse built in her garden. She went on a website that connects 
tradespeople with potential customers and said her budget for the job was £3,000 to £4,000. 
Someone Ill refer to in this decision as N was the only one to respond. He then called Miss 
S and said he lived locally and could provide a quote if Miss S paid £50. Miss S paid this 
amount on 20 October 2022 but says that N didnt visit at that time so she got quotes from 
others, but they were for around £4,500 which she couldnt afford. So Miss S went back to N 
who said the work could be completed for £2,500.
Miss S didnt complete any checks in respect of N and there was no written agreement 
covering the work that would be completed. N said he would need funds to buy materials 
before work could start but Miss S says only some very low value materials were bought and 
N visited her once, but no work started.
I have set out in the table below the payments Miss S made to N:
Date Amount
20/10/22 £50 
15/12/22 £300
22/12/22 £150
04/01/23 £250
10/01/22 £300
12/01/23 £300
16/01/23 £200
23/01/23 £100
Total £1,650
N gave various excuses about why he couldnt start the work, such as waiting for materials, 
shipment delays, shortage of staff and injury. N then stopped responding to Miss S. She 
contacted Halifax to report what had happened on 25 January 2023. 
Halifax considered its liability under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) and didnt agree to reimburse Miss S. It said it 
met the standards required of it, but Miss S didnt take enough steps to protect herself from 
the scam. Halifax contacted the receiving bank but was unable to recover any funds as Ns 
bank said it was a civil dispute. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
that Miss S hadnt provided evidence of being scammed and so it was more likely than not 
that she had a civil dispute with N. Civil disputes arent covered by the CRM Code. The 
investigator also felt that Halifax acted reasonably in processing the payment. 
Miss S didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for a final decision, so her case 
has been passed to me to consider. She said:
- She was unable to provide the messages that were exchanged with N as they were 
lost after she changed her phone but had found some screenshots she took at the 
time. Miss S said the messages evidence she was asked for money and discussions 
about when work would be done. She referred to many more messages in which N 
gave excuses for not doing the work.
- N used language that in their culture is warm and trusting. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
in other words on what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances. 
Im sorry to hear that Miss S has lost money in these circumstances. Under the CRM Code, 
the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is the victim of an APP 
scam (except in limited circumstances). An APP scam is defined and includes where a 
customer transfers funds to another person for what they believed were legitimate purposes, 
but which were in fact fraudulent. So the CRM Code isnt a general protection for 
consumers. Instead, it only applies in very specific circumstances  where the customer has 
been the victim of a scam. 
In order for me to conclude that Miss S has been the victim of a scam, Id have to be 
satisfied that N deliberately tricked her into making payments for a service he had no 
intention of providing at the time she made the payments. Im not persuaded I can say that is 
most likely what happened given the evidence that is available. 
The only evidence Miss S has been able to provide are screenshots of:
- A message sent on 26 October 2022 saying, I need help with some work. The 
message went on to discuss building a summerhouse and asked if N could help with 
it.
- Part of an undated message asking if an amount that isnt visible would be enough 
for work and a reply from N dated 9 November 2022 saying he was abroad and 
would visit when he returned.
- Undated messages referring to invoices for decking and plaster board and 
partitioning work (for £1,100 and £1,500).  
- Ns payment details
But Miss S paid N £50 before what appears to be the first contact on 26 October 2022 so its 
not clear exactly what happened here. There also isnt enough evidence to reach the 
conclusion N intended to take Miss S money and not provide a service. Ns bank deems this 
to be a civil dispute between Miss S and N and there is no evidence that Miss S has 
reported this matter to the police or any other body  like Trading Standards  and that body 
has investigated and concluded a scam has taken place. 
In any event, even if I were to conclude Miss S was the victim of an APP scam covered by 
the CRM Code, I wouldnt be asking Halifax to reimburse her. Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if a customer makes payments without having a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to 
pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with 
whom they transacted was legitimate. If Miss S case was covered by the CRM Code, Im 
satisfied Halifax could fairly rely on this exclusion for the following reasons: 
- N told Miss S that he didnt have a business and he just completed work on the side. 
So asking N to complete work involved a big risk as there was no way of checking 
reviews of previous work or understanding if N was trustworthy. It also meant it was 
unlikely N was insured. Miss S accepted this risk in engaging N.
- N charged £50 for a quote but didnt attend and provide one. I think this ought 
reasonably to have caused concern. Miss S then got quotes from other workmen 
who didnt charge her. But Miss S still chose to use N and made further payments to 
him after this. 
- Other builders provided Miss S with quotes for the work which were much higher 
than Ns (around £4,500). I consider this should have been a warning sign that 
something wasnt right.
- Miss S continued to make payments even though she says no work was completed 
and only very limited materials were provided.
- Miss S has no documentation to show what was agreed between her and N. 
- Miss S doesnt know anyone else who used N to complete any work and didnt seek 
out any reviews or complete any research into N.
Ive considered whether Halifax should have done anything more when the payments were 
made but I dont think it should. The transactions Miss S made were in line with her normal 
account and payment history. They were relatively low in value and were spaced out so 
wouldnt have caused Halifax any concern at the time they were made.
Im very sorry Miss S has lost money in these circumstances, but I cant reasonably hold 
Halifax responsible. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman