DRN-3521407
The complaint
Mr W complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc mishandled a motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to RSA, I include employees and others insofar as I hold RSA responsible for 
their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mr W was eligible for a vehicle on contract hire from a company that provides vehicles for 
drivers with disabilities. I will call that company the operations company. 
Mr W wanted two young family members (as well as him) to drive the vehicle. His 
understanding was that, in order to be insured for the young drivers, the vehicle had to be 
under 120 brake horsepower. 
Mr W chose a vehicle under 120bhp. For the three years from late September 2021, RSA 
and the operations company covered the vehicle under arrangements set out in a Cover 
Booklet. The policy schedule and certificate of insurance covered Mr W and the young 
family members to drive the vehicle.
Unfortunately the vehicle broke down and needed a spare part. The operations company 
provided a temporary replacement vehicle. It was over under 120bhp. Mr W thought that he 
could drive it, but the young drivers couldnt.
In January 2022, Mr W found out that the young drivers couldve driven the temporary 
replacement vehicle, Mr W complained to RSA that it hadnt made that clear, so he had 
suffered inconvenience.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. By a final response dated early April 2022, RSA turned 
down the complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
RSA had provided the right outcome.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumers complaint against an insurance
company or other regulated firm about regulated activities. We are bound by the Financial
Conduct Authoritys dispute resolution rules (DISP). 
RSAs certificate of insurance named Mr W and the two young drivers. The certificate 
covered the following:
Description of vehicle 
1. [registration number]
2. Any motor vehicle provided by or on behalf of [operations company] in temporary 
replacement of the vehicle specified in 1 above
So Im satisfied that RSA had made it clear enough that the policy covered the vehicle 
chosen by Mr W and any temporary replacement provided by the operations company.
Mr W has said that his vehicle broke down. He hasnt said that it was involved in an accident 
or other event for which it was covered by insurance. From my reading of the Cover 
Booklet, RSA had no role in providing the replacement vehicle. So I dont hold RSA 
responsible for providing information about who could drive that vehicle.
Mr W hasnt said that RSA or anyone else told him that the young family members werent 
insured to drive the replacement vehicle. Rather he has said that he assumed they couldnt 
drive it.
Overall I dont find RSA responsible for any unfair act or omission in relation to the 
replacement vehicle. And I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct RSA to make any 
apology or to pay any compensation to Mr W.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman