DRN-1592744
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that APFIN LTD (trading as cashasap.co.uk) Cashasap was irresponsible 
in its lending to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about the instalment loan Cashasap provided to Mr M in January 2018. 
The loan was for £250 repayable over three monthly instalments of around £112. 
Mr M said that at the time of the loan he was gambling and was taking out multiple loans to 
pay for this. He said his bank statements would have shown this.
Cashasap says that before the loan was provided it gathered information from Mr M about 
his income and expenses. It said it was entitled to rely on the information Mr M provided and 
that based on the information received the loan repayments were affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think it would have been proportionate 
for Cashasap to have to ask Mr M for the amount of information needed to show the lending 
was unsustainable.
Mr M didnt agree with our adjudicators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashasap needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Before the loan was provided to Mr M, Cashasap gathered information about his income and 
expenses. Mr Ms monthly income was recorded as £1,500 and his total monthly expenses 
(including other credit commitments) were recorded as £1,165. I understand Mr Ms 
comments that had his bank statements been checked then Cashasap would have been 
aware of his gambling. However I do not find that Cashasap was required to do this.Cashasap was required to carry out proportionate checks and this doesnt mean that it is 
required to see copies of bank statements (although in certain cases this may be 
appropriate). This was Mr Ms first loan and the repayment amounts compared to his 
monthly income werent significantly large. I find, at this stage in the lending relationship, the 
checks carried out were proportionate. Cashasap relied on the income and expenses 
information provided by Mr M and, in this case, given it was Mr Ms first loan and I havent 
seen anything that would raise concerns that would require further investigation, I think that 
relying on Mr Ms information was reasonable.
Mr M has explained he had a gambling addition. While I am very sympathetic to Mr Ms 
situation, I have nothing to show that Cashasap was aware of this at the time of lending and 
as I think the checks were proportionate and based on these checks the loan repayments 
appeared affordable, I do not find I have enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
As Mr M has made Cashasap aware of his situation. Cashasap should treat Mr M positively 
and sympathetically in regard to any ongoing discussion about the repayment of any 
outstanding balance on the loan. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against APFIN LTD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman