DRN-4085069
The complaint
Miss H complains that eBay Commerce (eBay) hasnt help her during a dispute she had 
about an item she sold on eBay marketplace. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
eBay didnt authorise the chargeback of funds, the buyers bank did. So eBays role 
was to supply information to the bank to supports Miss Hs case for defending the 
return of funds.
Although Miss H wanted to supply more information, Ive seen that information and 
much like the investigator, Im not convinced it wouldve resulted in a successfully 
defended chargeback. 
Miss H has only supplied information showing pictures of the ring. Having considered 
the information, I dont think its likely that this information would have resulted in a 
different outcome to the chargeback. This is because there isnt enough to clearly 
and persuasively evidence what Miss H sent was different to what she received back. 
So, I cant fairly say, on balance, that eBay are responsible for the outcome of the 
chargeback being decided against Miss H here.
I do think Miss H lost out on the opportunity to send eBay further information and this 
must have been frustrating. Given this, Im satisfied eBay should pay Miss H 
compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. 
Having thought about the impact not sending this information back had on Miss H, 
Im satisfied £50 fairly compensates her for this.  
Putting things right
I instruct eBay Commerce UK Ltd to:
Pay Miss H £50 Compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman