DRN-3181069
The complaint
Mr F complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) mis-sold the hire 
purchase agreement to him, and there is money missing from the agreement. He also 
complains as he feels hes been unfairly charged for excess mileage under the same hire 
purchase agreement. 
What happened
In 2016, Mr F acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from BMWFS. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £48,312.95. An advance payment of £8,207.64 was 
made  this was a combination of Mr Fs money and BMWFS contribution towards it. 
Following this, Mr F was required to make 47 monthly repayments of £503.65 and there was 
a final optional payment of £16,433.75 if he wanted to buy the car at the end of the 
agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr F had the right to terminate the agreement at any time before 
the final payment was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the car 
and at least half of the total payable under the agreement. The agreement set out that this 
was £24,156.48. 
Towards the end of 2018, Mr F enquired about part-exchanging the car. At this stage he was 
disappointed to learn that the car was in negative equity and the part-exchange wouldnt 
settle the amount outstanding on the agreement. 
Mr F complained to the dealership (who Ill call S) at this stage as he felt this agreement 
(agreement two), and his agreement (agreement one) prior, had been mis-sold to him. He 
said that he was told that the hire purchase agreement was the best way to protect the cars 
future value and Mr F believed he would have surplus equity to always take forward to use 
when acquiring a new car. As part of this complaint, Mr F also raised that agreement two 
seemed to have an incorrect financial breakdown of the deposit made. He felt there was 
£1,500 unaccounted for  this was made up of a further contribution of £1,000 from him and 
£500 from the manufacturer as theyd agreed to put this towards the new car when 
agreement one was settled. 
S responded, addressing all of Mr Fs complaint points. He remained unhappy so took his 
complaint to BMWFS. In January 2019, Mr F also exercised his right to terminate the 
agreement early. 
As he hadnt yet paid back at least £24,156.48, BMWFS said he needed to pay £335.68. 
After Mr F handed the car back, BMWFS later charged him a further £3,495.56 as he had 
exceeded the mileage allowance on the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr F had an annual mileage allowance of 11,000 and a total 
mileage allowance of 44,000. It said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS could 
charge him 10.91 pence for every mile that he exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the 
event he terminated the agreement early, the mileage allowance would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire. 
Mr F wasnt happy with this charge and added this to his complaint with BMWFS. They 
responded and didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. They said there wasnt anything in the 
contract to suggest Mr F was advised he would be getting any equity back should he not 
retain the car  BMWFS explained that putting a high deposit down at the outset helped to 
reduce the loan amount and dictate what the monthly repayments would be. But it didnt 
guarantee there would be any equity available. They also said the excess mileage charge 
had been applied correctly and would remain payable. 
Mr F brought this complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said there 
wasnt anything to suggest Mr F was told he would have available equity at the end of the 
agreement to use towards another car. She also told Mr F that she couldnt see that the 
deposit paid had an unaccounted £1,500. Regarding the excess mileage charge applied, our 
investigator was satisfied that BMWFS had calculated it correctly in line with the terms of the 
hire purchase agreement and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). She also said that the 
terms of the agreement were clear around the possibility of an excess mileage charge being 
payable on voluntary termination. 
In summary, she said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities a consumer has on termination;
On termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of the 
agreement. Total price is defined by S189 of the CCA as the total sum payable 
under the hire purchase agreement. It does not include charges for items that are 
payable as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges 
for breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination;
S99 sets out that any liabilities that the consumer accrued prior to termination are not 
to be affected by the termination;
The hire purchase agreement sets out that the excess mileage charges will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr Fs agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before termination and was therefore not affected by the 
termination;
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage charges must therefore be included in 
the total price of the agreement;
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mr Fs accrued liability under S100 therefore included 
paying an additional amount of £3,495.56;
The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage 
would be charged, when it would accrue and how much it would cost;
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been 
exceeded;
The investigator concluded that when considering all the terms of the agreement as a 
whole, she was satisfied it was made clear and not misleading about when an 
excess mileage charge could be applied and for how much. She was therefore 
satisfied it was fair and reasonable for BMWFS to charge the additional amount. 
Mr F continued to be unhappy. He said the £1,500 was still unaccounted and he had lost a 
lot of money as a result of entering into these agreements. He didnt think the excess 
mileage charge was fair when considering his other losses. 
As Mr F didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 56 of the CCA has the effect of holding BMWFS responsible for any antecedent 
negotiations between Mr F and S, who acted as BMWFS agent when setting up the hire 
purchase agreement. What this means is that anything S said or did when arranging the hire 
purchase agreement, I can consider against BMWFS.
Where there is conflicting or missing evidence, such as in this case, I have to make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. Or in other words, what I think is most likely 
to have happened. And, in this case, I dont think Mr F was mis-sold the agreement 
complained about here. Ill explain why. 
Mr Fs advance deposit
Mr F is concerned as he thinks the hire purchase agreement calculations are missing £1,500 
that was paid towards the advance deposit. Because of this, he believes his agreement has 
been too high by the same amount. I dont agree with him on this. 
Mr F contributed £4,949 towards this agreement by way of an initial deposit. This left a 
balance on the deposit to pay of £4,050.99. BMWFS contributed this, including the £500 the 
manufacturer agreed to give Mr F towards the car, following a previous complaint he had 
made to them. But, as Mr Fs previous car was in negative equity when he returned it to 
BMWFS, the shortfall between that cars value and the settlement figure on agreement one 
was then deducted from the total deposit for agreement two. 
Agreement one had a settlement figure of £18,992.35 and the car was valued at £18,200 
when it was returned to BMWFS. This shortfall of £792.35 was deducted from the overall 
deposit to put towards agreement two. So, Mr Fs deposit for agreement two was calculated 
as follows:
His contribution: £4,949
+
BMWFS contribution: £4,050.99
-
Shortfall in value on agreement one: £792.35
----------
Total deposit: £8,207.64
Mr Fs hire purchase agreement confirms the total deposit as a penny more, at £8,207.65. 
But having looked at the figures and the payments made Im satisfied all the contributions 
from Mr F and those agreed by BMWFS have been put towards the advance deposit. The 
cash price of the vehicle on the hire purchase agreement is £43,327, leaving Mr F with 
£35,119.35 on credit  before the interest is applied  once the deposit is placed against 
this. Those figures tie up with the hire purchase agreement and the sales invoice for the car, 
so Im satisfied Mr F hasnt had £1,500 missed from the agreement. I wont be asking 
BMWFS to do anything here. 
Surplus equity
Mr F has said that he made large deposits on both cars he acquired through BMWFS, and 
he has now lost that money as the cars were in negative equity when he wanted to 
part-exchange. He believes the hire purchase paperwork is misleading and suggests he will be protected from market changes, allowing him to accrue a surplus in equity to use towards 
a new car in the future. But I havent seen anything to agree with Mr F on this point. 
The hire purchase agreement he entered into allowed him to buy the car at the end of the 
agreement for an Optional Final Payment. This is also referred to as the Guaranteed 
Minimum Future Value (GMFV). But, importantly, the GMFV is only applicable at the end of 
the agreement. And it is only at this stage that Mr F would have been protected against any 
negative equity. By having a GMFV, BMWFS are essentially allowing Mr F to walk away at 
the end of the agreement without anything further to pay, irrespective of whether the car is in 
negative equity or not. But the GMFV isnt a guaranteed part-exchange figure or what the car 
will be worth on the broader market. And the GMFV doesnt apply if Mr F wants to bring the 
agreement to an end early, either by part-exchanging the car or by voluntary terminating the 
agreement. Once either of those options are chosen, the car is valued by S, or any party 
interested in purchasing or part-exchanging the car, against current market conditions and 
any deals they may be able to provide  but there isnt anything in the purchase agreement 
terms and conditions that suggest the car shouldnt be valued at less than what is left to pay 
on the agreement. 
Mr F has pointed to the literature he received before entering the agreement and the fact 
that it says:
At the end of the agreement, just choose from one of the following options
Renew  choose a new car from <s> and use any excess value over the GMFV 
towards your deposit
But Im not persuaded this supports Mr Fs argument. It clearly says this option is applicable 
at the end of the agreement. And whilst it may say that Mr F could use any excess value 
towards a new deposit, it doesnt guarantee that a surplus will be available to use in the 
future. The literature goes on to say that Mr F will be protected against depreciation  which 
is right once the agreement has come to an end. But in his case, it didnt. And so, the GMFV 
isnt applicable and I cant say BMWFS have acted unreasonably here. 
Excess mileage
In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement 
allowed Mr F the use of the car for the duration of the agreement. He also had the option to 
purchase the car outright at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£16,433.75. While Mr F was entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain 
conditions, such as maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum 
mileage each year and overall throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement set 
out what would happen should Mr F not meet those requirements. 
Mr F exercised his right to voluntary terminate the agreement. In some instances, voluntary 
termination allows the hirer to simply hand the car back without having to pay anything more. 
But this is dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to the agreement, 
whether there are arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and whether any excess 
mileage or other charges are due. 
In this case, Mr F disputes the excess mileage charge of £3,495.56 that has been added to 
the voluntary termination figure of £24,156.48.
The CCA sets out the rights the consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination: your rights section of 
Mr Fs hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination and in his case, that was £24,156.48. Various sections of the agreement Mr F had with BMWFS 
also referred to the liability on early termination, including where excess mileage, damage 
charges or other charges may increase the final liability. 
Whether or not its fair for a lender to apply the charge will be unique to every case, as it will 
depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered into. In other words, what Ive 
to decide is has the agreement Mr F entered into been constructed in a way as to allow the 
charging for excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the CCA regarding 
voluntary termination? In Mr Fs specific case, I think it has. 
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to 
termination are not affected by the termination. What this means is that Mr F is liable to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these 
charges are in addition to the other liability for early termination. 
The first page of Mr Fs hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess mileage 
charges for depreciation. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges will 
apply if that mileage is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the 
mileage allowance will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your obligation to 
pay any excess mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied 
Mr Fs agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue.
The agreement also has a section headed: Termination: your rights. This section contains 
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary 
sets out that so long as Mr F has paid at least half the total amount payable under the 
agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about whether this conflicts with 
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges for exceeding 
the mileage might apply. 
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think the agreement is 
unclear or misleading concerning the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains that the 
excess mileage charge can be applied in addition to other charges for voluntary termination. 
I dont therefore consider that the way this specific agreement has been constructed has 
prejudiced Mr F. 
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows that Mr F is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent with what is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.
Mr F says that BMWFS are unfairly reporting arrears on his credit file in relation to his 
agreement. However, as Mr F hasnt paid all the sums which fell due when he terminated the 
agreement early, I cant reasonably say that what BMWFS are reporting is either inaccurate, 
unfair or reasonable. 
Overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr F.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman