DRN-2361763
The complaint
Mr Y, through a claims management company (CMC), has complained that the advice he 
received from Sesame Limited was unsuitable as his existing portfolio already met his 
needs.
What happened
In April 2005, Mr Y sought advice from Sesame regarding his investment portfolio. Mr Y had 
recently retired, owned his house outright with no mortgage, he had no dependants and was 
a widower.
At the time he sought advice, he held a PEP and ISA with another provider totalling 
£51,614.00 and £7,200 in a corporate bond ISA. Sesame reviewed Mr Ys existing 
investments and concluded they exposed him to more risk than he was willing to take. It 
assessed his attitude to risk (ATR) and agreed he now wanted to take no more than five out 
of 10  which meant Mr Y was categorised as a cautious to balanced investor. It said his 
current investments exposed him to a level of risk it considered to be higher than six on its 
scale. As such, the adviser recommended that he transfer his PEP/ISAs to another provider. 
However, due to the tax advantages the ISA and PEP have, Mr Y was advised to invest in a 
PEP and ISA again and invest 50% into a cautious fund and 50% into a balanced fund. It 
said this would match Mr Ys new risk profile. Mr Y also wished to invest a further £22,000 
from a deposit account.
Mr Ys CMC states that the advice he received was unsuitable as it overstepped what was 
necessary to achieve his objectives. Mr Y paid an initial charge to move providers as well as 
ongoing charges  and he was told this was due to the recommendations being more 
suitable, but the CMC states this was not the case. 
The CMC says the advice Mr Y received wasnt suitable as the existing portfolio he held, to a 
large extent, already met his needs as £43,717 was invested in a fund which matched his 
new risk profile. The remaining £15,000 had a risk profile of seven or eight out of 10. 
Therefore, the CMC felt Mr Y should have only been advised to re-invest £15,000. But Mr Y 
received advice to reinvest everything. The recommendation of the new funds reduced the 
risk profile marginally but overall the investment risk remained very similar. The CMC states 
there was a lack of diversification as 60% was invested in equities, reducing the spread of 
risk which Mr Y benefited from previously.
Secondly, the CMC says Sesame placed a lot of emphasis on the sale being appropriate as 
there were no additional charges for switching in the future. But based on the fact there had 
only been one switch in 15 years, the CMC felt this wasnt relevant to Mr Ys circumstances. 
The CMC says that Sesames notes reflecting Mr Ys investment objectives are not accurate. 
It says his objectives were:
to invest for potential growth in a fund which offered a wider range of funds, whilst offering a 
competitive charging structure, reduce overall risk profile, reduce paperwork and maintain 
tax efficiency. 
But Mr Y disagrees, he states this was not his description of his objectives but simply the 
advice promoting the investments benefits which Mr Y accepted.
Overall the CMC states the advice was unsuitable as it didnt match his ATR, lacked 
diversification, didnt match his investment objectives and Mr Y suffered an initial fee and 
ongoing charges which were unnecessary. 
Sesame didnt agree, it said the adviser gathered sufficient information about Mr Ys 
circumstances. He wished to reduce the amount of risk in the portfolio and the file shows 
adequate research was undertaken and the adviser made a recommendation to meet his 
needs.
Mr Y remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Ys complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be upheld. In summary he felt the 
advice Sesame had provided matched Mr Ys ATR, investment objectives and 
circumstances. Mr Y didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
The documents from the point of sale show that Mr Y was retired with no dependants and no 
mortgage. He had £58,814.67 already invested. He wished to invest a further £22,000.
The fact find records that he was an experienced investor, but as he had retired, he wanted 
to reduce his risk while keeping a diverse portfolio and maintaining the opportunity for capital 
growth. As such it appears Mr Ys risk profile was categorised as an average of five.
Sesame recommended that Mr Y invested £45,277 into a personal equity plan, MultiPEP of 
which 50% was balanced and 50% was cautious. And a further £13,500 was transferred into 
an ISA MultiISA with the same provider, again 50% balanced and 50% cautious. Ive 
considered Mr Ys objectives and ATR carefully. I am satisfied he wanted exposure to 
investments that could grow his money. Mr Y understood and accepted the level of risk hed 
need to take in order to do so.
Overall everyone seems to agree that Mr Y wanted to take a risk categorised by Sesame as 
five out of 10. This meant he was willing to take more risk than a very risk adverse person 
but wasnt incredibly speculative  he was somewhere in the middle. The investments 
Sesame recommended, in my view matched his willingness to take risk and provided him 
the chance to meet his objectives. He was invested in a range of assets, that exposed him to 
more risk but would allow his money to grow.
Mr Ys money was exposed to a broad range of assets, asset classes, and different funds. 
Taking everything into account Im satisfied this was a suitable recommendation that 
matched Mr Ys objectives for his money within a level of risk he was willing and able to take.
Mr Y did want to reduce his risk profile and I am satisfied that the advice he received 
marginally reduced this. I accept there were different ways Sesame could have achieved 
that objective, and one option could have been to reinvest the £15,000 which was higher risk. But Sesame chose to rebalance his whole portfolio, and I dont think thats 
unreasonable, I will explain why.
I note that Mr Y has said he was unhappy with the initial transfer charge and annual 
management charges. However, having looked at the annual management charges, the 
evidence shows that the charges with the new provider were 1.25% as opposed to 1.5% with 
his previous provider. I accept that there was a 3% transfer charge at the outset, but 
overtime, the cheaper ongoing charge would offset any upfront transfer fee. 
Again, I can see that this was clearly outlined in the suitability letter. And from the 
information listed in the point of sale documentation, it appears Mr Y was unhappy with the 
lack of fund options with his current provider. So, while there was an initial fee transferring to 
the new provider, this allowed for more fund options for Mr Y in the future, especially if he 
wished to change his ATR again. I accept that the CMC has said Mr Y rarely changed funds 
and so this wouldnt benefit him. But Mr Y had said he was unhappy with the limited range of 
funds with the previous plan. And from the information provided, it appears Mr Y did make 
use of this benefit in 2011 when a review took place and Mr Y adjusted his ATR. So, while 
the investments risk profile ended up being marginally reduced, I am satisfied the benefits 
outweigh the costs and therefore I cant say the advice was unsuitable.
I have also considered Mr Ys actions following the advice to transfer to a new provider. 
While Mr Ys recollections now differs from what was recorded at the time, I am satisfied the 
evidence from the time is a fair reflection of his views at that stage. This, and his acceptance 
of the advice and fees involved is supported by the fact he held the investments since, an in 
fact added to his holdings with a further £10,000 in 2011.
Therefore, on balance, Im satisfied the advice provided meets Mr Ys objectives. I've not 
seen enough to agree the exposure was more than Mr Y was willing to take and I am 
satisfied that Mr Ys risk profile was marginally reduced. I think the benefits to transfer 
outweigh the arguments put forward by Mr Ys CMC, and I can see that Mr Y utilised these 
benefits. Ultimately, I am satisfied the portfolio is sufficiently diversified and broadly appears 
to be within the definition, and so I cant say the advice was unsuitable.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman