DRN-4167908
The complaint
Ms P complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC unfairly charged her interest for a money 
transfer, even though she was entitled to a 0% money transfer offer.
What happened
Ms P says that, in September, she received a 0% money transfer offer from Tesco via email. 
Ms P took advantage of the offer and carried out a money transfer that month, but Tesco 
later charged her interest. In the months that followed, Ms P contacted Tesco several times 
and says she was wrongly given the impression that she wouldnt be charged interest.
After Ms P complained, Tesco pointed to a letter it sent in September, explaining that the 
fixed rate on Ms Ps credit card had been removed because of a missed payment. Tesco 
also referenced the terms set out in the email it sent in September, explaining that Ms Ps 
most recent payment needed to be made on time for the offer to be valid. Tesco says Ms P 
made a late payment recently due to a change she made to her direct debit, so it had 
charged her interest correctly.
Tesco acknowledged that it couldve been clearer when Ms P got in touch by telephone. 
Tesco apologised for the poor service it provided  it offered Ms P £100 compensation and 
waived two months interest to put things right. 
Remaining unhappy, Ms P asked this service to get involved. She wants Tesco to refund her 
the interest and the money transfer processing fee it charged her. Our investigator 
concluded that Tesco had acted fairly. Ms P doesnt agree, so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final say on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I share the opinion that Tesco has acted fairly. I know Ms P will be 
disappointed to hear this, so Ill explain why.
The key event here, in my opinion, is the offer email Tesco sent to Ms P in September. The 
email provides information on new balance transfer and money transfer rates available to 
Ms P and explains that she can take advantage of a 0% money transfer rate until April 2024. 
Importantly, the terms in the email set out that to be eligible for this 0% interest rate, you 
must have paid your most recent minimum payment on time. Ms Ps most recent payment 
was made late, so based on this term, she wasnt eligible for this offer.
Ms P says that shed recently made a full payment and believed Tesco wouldnt have sent 
the offer to her if she was ineligible  so she thinks the offer should be honoured. Tesco says 
that the email is generic and is sent out to thousands of pre-approved customers. The lender 
adds that it wouldnt be able to check each consumers eligibility just before the email is sent 
out. I dont find this to be unreasonable. Its not unusual for lenders to send out offers to a 
large amount of its customers and rely on the terms of those offers to help customers decide 
whether theyre eligible to sign up.
I think the terms in the email Ms P received were enough to make her reasonably aware that 
she wasnt eligible for this offer. Ms P was notified earlier on in the month that her most 
recent payment wasnt made by the due date, so she contacted Tesco to make the payment 
manually. Even though Ms P seems to have cleared the balance at that point, the payment 
was still made after the due date  so it was made late. So I think its more likely than not 
that Ms P wouldve been aware that this payment was made late, and she wouldve 
reasonably recognised that she was ineligible for the offer.
Ms P suggests her direct debit failed because of something Tesco did wrong. I havent seen 
anything that persuades me that this was the case. Tesco pointed out that changes to direct 
debits usually activate in the following statement month. Because Ms P made the 
amendment ahead of when the next payment was due for the current statement period, 
Tesco couldnt collect the payment on the due date. So I dont find that Tesco did something 
wrong to cause this.
Ms P says that, when she telephoned Tesco about being charged interest, she was given 
the impression that this would be corrected. This was compounded by the fact that Tesco 
reinstated a 0% rate on her account, which the lender now tells us was done in error. Tesco 
accepts that it shouldve been clearer during the calls that took place and that it shouldve 
specifically pointed out that the 0% rate didnt apply to the money transfer Ms P made in 
September. Tesco also failed to call Ms P back as agreed on one occasion.
To put things right, Tesco offered Ms P £100 compensation and waived two months interest. 
I think this is a reasonable settlement for the poor service Tesco provided and it is within the 
region of what I wouldve awarded, had the lender made no offer at all.
Ms P says that, if Tesco sent her the email offer in error, then it should refund her the money 
transfer fee that she paid. However, the fee she was charged wasnt for the offer itself, but a 
charge to carry out the money transfer. I can see that Ms P successfully carried out her 
money transfer in September, so I dont find that it would be fair to ask Tesco to refund the 
fee it charged. 
To conclude, Im satisfied that Ms P had enough information at the time to be reasonably 
aware that she wouldnt be eligible for the 0% money transfer offer. So Ive decided that 
Tesco was fair to charge her interest. Tescos compensation offer and its two-month interest 
waiver fairly makes up for the unclear information Ms P was given over the phone. So I wont 
be asking Tesco to do anything more. 
My final decision
For these reasons, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman