DRN-1909461
 
The complaint
Mr N complains about repeated problems he had with TSB Bank plc, which appear to have 
been caused by a payment on his account that he didnt recognise, and asked TSB to stop. 
What happened
Mr N said that hed been having problems with TSB since November 2018. TSB cancelled 
his card in November. When he reported that his card was blocked, he was repeatedly 
asked to try his card in a petrol station, then again elsewhere, but the card wouldnt work. He 
said TSB issued a new card for him, but that was blocked too. Then TSB closed his account 
because it was slightly overdrawn, without telling him it was going to do that. Mr N said hed 
repeatedly complained, but TSB wasnt responding to him. Mr N wanted the account 
reopened, and £500 in compensation. 
TSB didnt manage to look into this complaint before it reached us. Once it did reach us, 
TSB said that it had paid Mr N £50 in compensation and £14 in call costs when he first 
complained, and it didnt think it should pay any more.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said that there have been 
several bits of inaccurate and confusing information given to Mr N. This resulted in Mr Ns 
trust in TSB breaking down. That in turn meant he stopped crediting his account, which 
meant it was shut down when it became overdrawn. Our investigator said TSB had fallen 
short of the service that should be provided, and he thought TSB should pay Mr N £200.
TSB said it would pay that. But Mr N thought that we should look again at how much we 
were recommending TSB pay him. He said this had taken several months to sort out, and 
hed lost his account in the process, because of TSBs wrongdoing. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did didnt propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
The problems Mr N had with his card were caused by a payment that kept appearing 
on his account, which Mr N said he didnt recognise. I can see from TSBs notes that 
Mr N first reported this payment in July 2018. That payment was treated as fraud. But 
Im not sure that was the right thing to do. Because the company kept trying to take 
this payment, it seems more likely to me that Mr N had, without realising it, set up a 
repeating payment to this company. I cant see that Mr N has been advised by TSB to 
check whether he had set up this repeating payment, and if so, to cancel it with the 
company.
The company kept trying to charge Mr N. TSB had made sure that any payments to 
the company wouldnt clear, but it said that it couldnt stop the company trying to take 
the payments. When the company tried to take money from Mr N, the money would show as part of his pending transactions until it dropped off his account. This could 
mean that he wasnt able, while the transaction was pending, to access all the money 
in his account.
This company tried to take money from Mr N on 3 November 2018. Mr N wanted this 
payment stopped, but he didnt want his card to be cancelled. 
On 8 November, Mr N told us that he was at a petrol station when his card wouldnt 
work. He told us that he was there for some hours while TSB tried to unblock his card, 
and he was then told to travel several miles to try to make a different transaction. 
TSB removed the transaction that Mr N had queried, so that he could access his 
money. And it transferred Mr N to the telephone banking team. Then hed moved 
some money to his partners account so that she could pay. 
I can see from TSBs internal notes that the card had been cancelled. TSB told Mr N at 
the time that it couldnt see any reason why that had happened. TSB now says when 
fraud is confirmed it must cancel the card. TSBs internal notes suggest this wasnt 
explained to Mr N at the time.
TSB says it paid Mr N £14 in call costs and £50 in compensation for what went wrong 
here. On the information I have, it seems likely that Mr N was inconvenienced on that 
day. A new card was then issued for him. 
The company tried to take money again on 21 November. On that day, Mr N was 
again in a petrol station, and trying to pay for fuel with his new card. Ive read a 
transcript of this call, where Mr N states that he needed this pending transaction to be 
removed, so he could pay for fuel. TSB told him then it would put him through to the 
fraud team, but the call then ended. I dont know why this call dropped. Its not clear 
whether TSB may have been able to remove this pending transaction if Mr N had 
remained on the phone, or called back. 
Mr N complained about what had happened. He was sent a letter telling him that he 
could bring his complaint to our service, but TSB doesnt appear to have fully 
investigated his complaint before that happened. I understand Mr N didnt receive this 
letter.
Mr N stopped paying his income into the account. Transcripts of his calls with TSB 
show that he was concerned that when he put money in the account, he wouldnt be 
able to access it. But Mr N had a small debt in the account. That debt was due to 
transactions Mr N had made. And Mr N didnt pay it off.
Mr N said that hed told TSB he wouldnt put any more money into the account until 
this issue was sorted out, and TSB was happy with that. I cant see TSB agreeing to 
this on the call transcripts I have. And TSBs actions dont seem consistent with such 
an agreement. I think its more likely than not that TSB hadnt agreed to this.
TSB wrote to Mr N asking him to repay this money, and then wrote again, warning him 
that if he didnt it would close his account. Then it closed his account and wrote off the 
small debt. I understand why Mr N had stopped using this account, but because hed 
twice been asked to clear the overdraft and he hadnt, I dont think TSB responded 
unreasonably. So I dont think its TSBs fault that Mr N no longer has this bank 
account. I dont think it needs to reopen this account now.But I do think that TSB is responsible for a number of things that went wrong on Mr Ns 
bank account. It seems likely that TSB has treated a payment claimed under a 
continuous payment authority as a fraudulent payment. I havent seen anything that 
suggests to me TSB had explored with Mr N other ways of making sure this payment 
didnt continue to be claimed. TSB then blocked the payment and cancelled Mr Ns 
card without telling him, so he only found out after hed fuelled up his car. And 
problems with the claimed payment continued after this, meaning Mr N was unable to 
access all of the money in his account. 
I think that the £50 that TSB has paid Mr N to date isnt sufficient to make up for what 
went wrong in this case. Given the length of time that these problems went on for, I 
think TSB should pay Mr N a further £250 now, in addition to what its already paid 
him. I think that would provide a fair outcome to this complaint. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
TSB agreed with my proposal, and said it would also close Mr Ns savings accounts with it, if 
he would like. Mr N didnt think the offer of compensation was enough. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
Mr N wrote to say that he didnt think my compensation offer was enough, as he had been a 
victim through TSB's own mess. Ill look at each of the points he made in turn.
Mr N said TSB had accepted that it had unlawfully blocked and cancelled his card. I think 
TSB made a mistake when it told him it didnt need to block his card, then did so. But I dont 
think what it did was unlawful.
Mr N said he was told afterwards that his account wouldnt have been closed just for £26 of 
arrears. He said he told TSB he wouldnt be using the account until it was safe to do so, and 
TSB had said it understood. But despite what a member of staff may have said to Mr N, I still 
think his account was closed for being in arrears. I understand why he wasnt using the 
account, but I dont think TSB had agreed he could leave the account in debt. It had written 
to him asking him to pay the debt off. 
Mr N said he didnt get any letters about the closure of his account, and there should be a 
clear conversation asking why he wasnt told about this. But I think TSB wrote to him. I dont 
know if Mr N got those letters, but I still think TSB was trying to make him aware of the 
position of his account, and of the action it was going to take if he didnt pay off his debt.
Mr N said our investigator had already got TSB to agree to pay him £300, but he wanted 
£1,000 because of how he was treated and the length of time this had taken to resolve. He 
didnt think it was acceptable for me to reduce his compensation offer now. But Im not 
reducing his compensation offer. TSB previously agreed to pay the amount of £200 that our 
investigator suggested. I thought it should pay a little more than this. I proposed to award 
£250. I still think that provides a fair outcome to this complaint, so thats what Ill now award.
 
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that TSB Bank plc must pay Mr N a further £250 for this complaint, in 
addition to the compensation of £50 and £14 in call costs that its already paid him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman