DRN-1984895
The complaint
Mr M complains about Lloyds Bank Plcs handling of a balance transfer on his credit card 
account and its poor customer service.
What happened
Mr M opened a credit card account with Lloyds. As part of the opening process, he wanted 
to transfer an existing account balance online. For reasons that werent made clear, Mr M 
couldnt complete the balance transfer. 
 
Mr M phoned Lloyds, but it couldnt transfer the balance either, so it asked him additional 
security questions. These mainly related to his mortgage and provider. Mr M said he found 
the questions confusing as he had more than one mortgage. Lloyds then told Mr M his 
balance transfer failed. He asked Lloyds what his options were and it said he could go to a 
branch with his identification and he might be able to complete the transfer there.  
Mr M decided to close the account, so Lloyds transferred him to the customer services team. 
Its records indicate it told Mr M it had followed the normal balance transfer process, but Mr M 
wasnt happy with the explanation given. After seeking advice, the agent escalated the 
complaint to a complaints manager who joined the call with Mr M.
The complaints manager told Mr M Lloyds had a set process to follow (when asking security 
questions) and that the questions werent pre-populated. Mr M interjected and said the 
complaints manager couldnt know if the right process had been followed if he hadnt 
listened to earlier calls. The complaints manager said he could listen to the calls, but it may 
not change the outcome. Mr M said he wanted his complaint investigated independently 
and confirmed he didnt want Lloyds to contact him by phone. So, the complaints manager 
said hed arrange for somebody else to investigate and respond to Mr Ms concerns.
Lloyds sent Mr M its complaint response in October 2019. It upheld Mr Ms complaint and 
said:
it didnt tell Mr M why his balance transfer wasnt successful during the early stages 
of the process. Whilst Lloyds explained that wasnt part of its normal process, it said 
it had made a suggestion about changing the process in future;
when asking additional security questions; it didnt specify which mortgage it was 
referring to and felt it could have made its security questions clearer.
Lloyds gave Mr M £125 compensation and offered to cover any other costs he may have 
incurred in raising his complaint. It also told Mr M that there was an error in the way his 
address was recorded, which may have contributed to a mis-match in information when 
carrying out credit checks. As Mr M had since closed his credit card account, it said it had 
removed details of the credit search from his credit file. Lloyds told Mr M he could complain 
to our service if he wasnt happy with its response. 
Mr M complained to us in late October 2019. He said Lloyds security questions were 
confusing and it wasnt helpful because it didnt explain other options to complete the 
balance transfer without prompting from him. Mr M felt Lloyds customer service was poor  
particularly because it tried to resolve his complaint without properly investigating what had 
happened. Mr M also said he wasnt happy Lloyds paid compensation into a joint account 
with a business partner, which he then had to explain. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and thought Lloyds compensation offer was 
reasonable. Whilst the investigator thought Lloyds could have asked clearer security 
questions, he didnt think it had done anything wrong in asking Mr M to go into a branch with 
identification when he couldnt complete the security process. The investigator 
acknowledged Lloyds didnt tell Mr M why the balance transfer didnt go ahead in the 
beginning. But he was satisfied that wasnt part of Lloyds normal process at the time and it 
had since made recommendations to change the process. The investigator thought Lloyds 
response reasonable and didnt think it was trying to obstruct Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M didnt accept the investigators assessment. Amongst other things he said Lloyds 
hadnt responded to his complaint, so was in breach of the FCAs DISP rules. He also said 
even if Lloyds was following its business processes, it does not negate the fact that the 
designed business process has led to material distress, inconvenience and additional costs.  
The investigator didnt think Mr Ms comments altered his assessment, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint, Mr M makes a number of points. Whilst Ive considered everything 
he said, in this decision, Ill focus on what I believe to be the key outstanding issues. 
Ill also say here my role isnt to punish Lloyds for things that might have gone wrong. Its to 
consider if Lloyds recognised what might have gone wrong and, if so, whether its done 
enough to put things right. And having carefully considered Mr Ms complaint, Im satisfied it 
has. Ill explain why. 
Balance transfer
Having had one failed attempt at a balance transfer, I appreciate it must have been 
frustrating for Mr M when Lloyds said it couldnt complete the transfer over the phone either. 
And that led to Lloyds asking Mr M additional security questions. 
I can see why Lloyds wanted to ask Mr M additional security questions. But I would expect 
those questions to be clear, so that the customer understands the information theyre being 
asked to give. And I think thats particularly important if its the difference between the 
balance transfer being completed or not. I think that was all the more important in Mr Ms 
case. I say that because Lloyds asked him questions about his mortgage and Mr M has 
more than one. So, I think Lloyds should have specified which mortgage the questions 
related to, particularly as during the call, Mr M says he found the questions confusing as he 
has several mortgages. But Lloyds didnt try to clarify its question. And the outcome was that 
Mr M wasnt able to provide matching information and the balance transfer couldnt be 
completed. 
Lloyds accepts its questions should have been clearer. It also told Mr M an error in how it 
recorded his address may have led to a mismatch in the information and that might have 
been a factor in the balance transfer not completing. But it couldnt say for certain.  
Mr M thinks this error was the root cause of the problems he faced and said he disputes 
Lloyds was following its processes if an error led to the decline. And he says that even if Lloyds was following its processes, it does not negate the fact that the designed business 
process has led to material distress, inconvenience and additional costs. 
Whilst I appreciate the point Mr M makes, I havent seen any evidence to suggest it was 
definitely the error with the address that caused the transfer not to complete.  Its just as 
possible it was caused by something else. But, Im satisfied Lloyds tried to work out what 
might have caused it and that it tried to provide a helpful response to Mr M. 
Mr M complains Lloyds didnt offer him other options to complete the balance transfer until 
he prompted it to do so. Having listened to the call, I agree with Mr M - the call handler didnt 
initially seem minded to explain what Mr M might do next if he still wanted to complete the 
balance transfer. But Mr M did prompt the call handler, who did then tell him he could take 
his identification to a bank branch if he wanted to. So, I dont think Mr M was more 
inconvenienced because he had to prompt Lloyds for this information, particularly as there 
was no delay in it explaining the next steps he might take.
But rather than going to a branch, Mr M decided to close his account. And he says he lost 
out financially because the bank he eventually took out a credit card with charged more fees 
than Lloyds. Ive thought about this, but I dont agree this is something that Lloyds should be 
responsible for. Lloyds told Mr M what he might do next and he chose a different course of 
action instead. 
As well as paying Mr M compensation of £125, Lloyds said it removed its credit search from 
Mr Ms credit file. So, it shouldnt adversely affect his credit file in future. It also said its 
considering amending its processes in future, so customers know why a balance transfer 
hasnt completed; it apologised for its error that might have contributed to the balance 
transfer failing and gave feedback to staff about asking clearer security questions. 
Overall, I thought Lloyds response seemed reasonable, so I wont be asking it to do anything 
more about this issue.
Lloyds paid compensation into a joint account 
Mr M complains Lloyds paid compensation into a joint account with a business partner. He 
says that caused him problems when he had to explain why the payment had been made. 
Lloyds said it was the only account Mr M had  apart from an ISA - so thats why it paid the 
compensation into that account.
I didnt think it unreasonable for Lloyds not to pay the compensation into Mr Ms ISA. I say 
that because if Mr M had later withdrawn the amount paid, he wouldnt have been able to top 
up his remaining tax-free allowance because it had already been used. I do think it might 
have been sensible for Lloyds to first check with Mr M which account he wanted the 
compensation paid into. But that doesnt automatically mean I think Lloyds has done 
anything wrong. 
Lloyds said it paid the compensation into Mr Ms account rather than sending a cheque, so 
that he had quick access to the funds. I dont think that response seems unreasonable and 
meant that Mr M didnt then have to go to a branch to pay in the funds. It also confirmed the 
account was a classic bank account  rather than a business account. So, whilst I appreciate 
Mr M might have preferred Lloyds to have made other arrangements - or spoken to him first 
- on balance, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong by paying the compensation into a 
classic bank account in Mr Ms name. I say that because Ive seen no evidence to suggest 
Mr M told Lloyds it was using the joint account for a particular purpose. And I think any 
inconvenience caused as a result of Mr M having to explain why the compensation had been 
paid in would have been minimal. So, I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything more here.Poor customer service
Ive already commented on Lloyds customer service associated with the balance transfer. 
Here, Ill focus on the way in which Lloyds responded to Mr Ms complaint, including that it 
paid him an amount of compensation that wasnt agreed. 
When dealing with Mr Ms concerns, its apparent the customer service agent tried to explain 
why he didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong when handling the balance transfer. 
From the evidence Ive seen, I dont think there was anything unusual about the way the 
customer service agent responded to Mr Ms complaint. I say that because the first stage of 
Lloyds complaints process is to try to resolve complaints informally. And I think thats what 
the agent tried to do, including by seeking advice from a complaints manager before 
confirming his response. 
Mr M seems to think the agent tried to put hurdles in his way to stop him progressing his 
complaint. From the evidence Ive seen, I dont agree with Mr M. The agent appears to have 
repeated why he didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong and Mr M may have felt he 
was trying to deter him from progressing his complaint. But Im satisfied from what Ive seen 
that the agent appears to have followed Lloyds internal process and he escalated the 
complaint to a complaints manager in line with the next stage when it became clear Mr M 
didnt accept the explanations given. 
Its a pity the agent didnt agree to call Mr M back rather than keeping him on hold. But Im 
satisfied he tried to give the complaints manager the full background to what happened 
when seeking advice. And, that also meant Mr M didnt have to repeat key details later on 
when the complaint was escalated.  
Ive listened to the call with the complaints manager. Amongst other things, he tried to 
explain the balance transfer process and how security questions are chosen. It seems to me 
this was an attempt to explain that the agent dealing with the balance transfer wouldnt 
necessarily have known Mr M had more than one mortgage, so couldnt tailor the question 
asked.  
I can hear Mr M interjected at this point and questioned how the complaints manager could 
know if the right process was followed if he hadnt listened to earlier calls. Whilst I can 
appreciate Mr Ms point, I think the complaints manager was simply trying to clarify the 
process to give Mr M additional context. 
Mr M says the complaints manager kept trying to get him to accept a response by phone, 
when hed insisted he wanted a written response. Having listened to the call, thats not my 
interpretation of what happened. Mr M asked whether his complaint would fall within this 
services jurisdiction to consider and the complaints manager said it would. Mr M then said 
he wanted a written response and the complaints manager said hed arrange that. He did 
explain that Lloyds would typically try to resolve a complaint before issuing a written 
response - and he again confirmed that Mr M didnt agree to be contacted by phone. But on 
balance, and particularly given the earlier responses the complaints manager gave, I dont 
agree that amounts to Lloyds trying to get Mr M to accept a telephone response in place of a 
written one. Or that the complaints manager tried to obstruct Mr M from taking his complaint 
further. 
In any event, Lloyds did investigate Mr Ms complaint and sent him a written response in 
October 2019. Mr M thinks Lloyds is in breach of the FCAs Disp rules because he says it 
didnt formally respond to his complaint. Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Lloyds did respond to Mr Ms complaint. Whilst I appreciate he may not have received the response, 
it wouldnt be fair to hold Lloyds responsible for that, particularly as the evidence shows it 
was sent to the right address.
Mr M also says Lloyds paid him an amount of compensation that wasnt agreed. Its often the 
case that when trying to resolve complaints informally, the organisation concerned will try to 
find out from the customer the type of outcome theyre looking for  and that may include 
discussing and agreeing a compensation payment. Thats less common when investigating 
and responding to a complaint formally. If the organisation feels its appropriate to pay 
compensation, it will generally do so in line with its own internal processes and having 
considered the impact of any identified errors or shortcomings. Mr M had already made it 
clear he wasnt interested in trying to resolve his complaint informally. So, I didnt find it 
unreasonable for Lloyds not to have discussed and agreed an amount of compensation with 
him. 
Having thought about Lloyds handling of the complaint overall, Im satisfied it tried to identify 
and apologise for things that went wrong and that it took reasonable steps to put things right. 
Im also satisfied Lloyds compensation payment fairly reflects the inconvenience Mr M may 
have suffered due to its errors and when things could have been handled better. On top of 
that, I think Lloyds tried to prevent potential further problems  for instance by removing its 
credit search from Mr Ms file and thinking about how its processes could be improved in 
future.  
My final decision
I am aware Lloyds Bank Plc has paid Mr M £125. I conclude that is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. My final decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc dont need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman