DRN-3187937
The complaint
Mr E complains that he was unaware Bank of Scotland plc defaulted his credit card account.
What happened
Mr E had a credit card with Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
In 2019 Mr E contacted Halifax to make a manual payment from a debit card with another 
bank but he wasnt able to do so. So, Mr E complained. Halifax responded and explained 
the payment had been declined because the registered address for the debit card didnt 
match the registered address for his Halifax credit card. Mr E had moved home but hadnt 
updated the address on his credit card account, so Halifax advised him to do so.
In 2021 Mr E was contacted by a debt collection company, M, who said that his credit card 
debt had been purchased from Halifax. Mr E said he was unaware he had outstanding 
debt and thought the account had been closed several years earlier, so he contacted 
Halifax to complain.
Mr E was told that the last payment Halifax received from Mr E towards his debt was via 
direct debit in June 2020, at which point he owed nearly £500. Halifax said it had written 
to him on a number of occasions in the months that followed. When it didnt hear back, it 
had defaulted the account in January 2021. It later sold this debt.
Mr E told Halifax that hed moved address and so hadnt received any of the letters. But 
Halifax noted that when Mr E had complained about the declined payment in 2019, he was 
told he needed to update his address, but he hadnt done so.
Mr E told Halifax that hed visited a branch to try and change his address and was told 
Halifax couldnt locate his account, so hed assumed it was closed. Mr E said he also tried 
to speak to Halifax over the phone, but it couldnt find his account. Halifax said there was 
no record of Mr E attempting to update his address either in branch or over the phone. So, 
it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr E remained unhappy and asked our service to look into his concerns about the default. 
He explained he hadnt received any paperwork for years and the account couldnt be 
found when he contacted Halifax. So, he cancelled his direct debit in 2020 as he assumed 
the balance was paid off.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint as they thought Halifax had done what it 
needed to in order to notify him of the missed payments. On balance, they felt there were 
a number of ways Mr E could have updated his address and they highlighted that it was 
his responsibility to do so.
Mr E didnt agree and stressed that the default was too harsh and that removing it 
would have no impact on Halifax. He raised a number of points about the address 
change, including:
Halifax should have done more to try to contact him about the debt before 
defaulting the account. He said he didnt receive a text, email or letter from 
Halifax.
Mr E had lost his card whilst on holiday at some point and was never sent a 
new card. As such he didnt have his card number to help identify the 
account whilst speaking with Halifax about the address change several 
years earlier.
Mr E wasnt able to access his credit card account online. He noted he also 
had a mortgage with Halifax and couldnt see the credit card account online.
The fact there was no record of his branch visit didnt prove anything because 
the account couldnt be found, so there was no way to record his visit.
Halifax had the opportunity to change his address when he complained about the 
payment difficulties in 2019 and it didnt do so. At this point it knew the address it 
held was incorrect, so in these circumstances it wasnt fair for it to have only sent 
him letters about the default. In particular, he highlighted that when he raised a 
complaint in 2021 it was able to write to the new address hed given them over 
the phone, so he didnt understand why it wasnt able to do this in 2019.
So, the complaint was passed to me to consider.
After reviewing the evidence, I intended to reach a slightly different outcome than the 
investigator. So, I issued a provisional decision so that both Halifax and Mr E could have 
the opportunity to comment before a final decision was made. In brief, I said that I thought 
the registration of the default was fair, but that it ought to have been registered earlier. And 
I told both parties I was intending to direct Halifax to show the default as having been 
registered in September 2020.
Mr E didnt make any further comment following my provisional decision. Halifax confirmed 
it would be willing to amend the date of the default.
I am now able to reach a final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by clarifying that I have only been asked to consider Mr Es complaint about 
the default. So, I wont be considering the merits of his earlier complaint from 2019 about 
the declined payment.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.Halifax applied the default in January 2021 after it had received no payments from Mr 
E since June 2020. Halifax has shown me evidence that it sent several letters about 
the arrears to the address it had registered for Mr E, in particular:
On 15 July 2020 it sent an arrears letter.
On 15 August 2020 it sent an arrears letter.
On 11 September 2020 it sent a default notice giving Mr E until 29 September 
2020 to get in contact or pay the arrears.
On 16 October 2020 it sent an arrears letter.
On 12 November 2020 it sent a letter asking for payment of the credit card 
balance.
But Halifax never heard from Mr E nor did it receive any payments.
Having reviewed the correspondence Halifax sent, albeit to Mr Es old address, Im 
satisfied these complied with the relevant requirements including the appropriate notice of 
arrears and the default notice. Its letters also attempted to signpost Mr E to support and 
give him sufficient opportunity to try to re-pay the debt before the default was registered.
But as the letters were addressed to his old address, Mr E says he didnt receive any 
of Halifaxs communications and so wasnt aware of the arrears. So, Ive thought 
carefully about what both parties told us about changing Mr Es address on the 
account.
Its clear that it was brought to both Halifaxs and Mr Es attention back in 2019 that the 
address on Mr Es credit card account wasnt up to date. Ive seen Halifax system notes 
from August 2019 that support the fact it told Mr E he needed to change the address on his 
account and that the complaints department hadnt done this. The note in question 
suggests Mr E was signposted to telephone banking.
I asked Halifax whether it could have simply updated Mr Es address at that time given it 
was told this was wrong. It explained that its complaints department staff cant update 
account details which is why Mr E was told he needed to do this separately. It clarified that 
as a department it held its own records of customers who had complained and it had 
updated his address on its own records  which is why it was later able to write to Mr E 
about this complaint using the correct address. It told us it couldnt update account details 
for security reasons as additional identification measures applied to such changes, and I 
think this is a reasonable requirement to safeguard its customers accounts.
Im also satisfied Halifax told Mr E he had to take further action to update his address. But 
Mr E said he couldnt do this because Halifax was unable to find his account. He said he 
went into branch but wasnt able to provide the 16 digit card number for his account as hed 
lost the card several years earlier and Halifax had never sent him a replacement. He also 
said Halifax had been unable to find the account when he called.
Halifax said it had no record of Mr E reporting the card loss or requesting a replacement 
card. It also had no record of Mr Es calls or any branch visit. I do agree with Mr E that if 
Halifax couldnt locate his account, then there may not be a record of his attempts to 
change his address. That being said, Halifax has told us that Mr E could have provided his 
name and registered address and staff should have been able to locate the account even 
without his card number. And this, I think seems reasonable. So, on balance Im not 
persuaded that a lack of the card number prevented Mr Es account from being located.
From the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that there were any mistakes made by Halifax that caused or contributed to the address on the account not being updated. I 
think Halifax made it clear to Mr E that he needed to update his address and he didnt do 
this.
And Im satisfied that it was ultimately Mr Es responsibility to ensure his address was up 
to date. Keeping this in mind, I think it was reasonable for Halifax to write to Mr E at the 
address registered on the account to notify him of the arrears and default.
When considering this complaint, Ive thought about the fact that Halifax could have 
identified Mr Es address was wrong as its complaint department had this information. 
But even if it had realised this, it wouldnt have been able to send these letters to the 
new address Mr E had provided without verifying it. So, I dont think this would have 
changed anything.
I appreciate Mr E thinks Halifax ought to have text or emailed, or perhaps even made efforts 
to trace his current address. I would only expect it to do this had it not taken sufficient steps 
when it was notified the address was incorrect. Given that at that time the staff involved 
were not in a position to amend the address, that they explained this to Mr E and advised 
him both that he needed to do this and how I think Halifax did enough. I say this noting 
there is no evidence any of the correspondence Halifax sent was returned in the years that 
followed.
Overall, whilst its unfortunate Mr E didnt receive these letters, Im not persuaded Halifax 
did anything wrong.
Ive seen no evidence that Halifax told Mr E, prior to him cancelling his direct debit, that his 
outstanding balance had been fully repaid. In fact, he still had an outstanding balance of 
nearly £500 on his account at that time and monthly payments were still being deducted up 
until the direct debit was cancelled. So, I think Mr E ought reasonably to have known his 
account would be going into arrears as he wasnt making any further payments to reduce 
his outstanding balance.
When applying for the credit card Mr E had entered into an agreement with Halifax to repay 
the debt owed. So, he had some responsibility to ensure he did so. For all of these 
reasons, I think it was fair for Halifax to register a default by the end of September 2020 
given by then it had received no payments in over three months and had no 
communication from Mr E about this.
That being said, I can see that Halifax didnt register this until January 2021. And Im not 
aware of any reason for this delay. Halifax didnt apply any further charges or interest to 
Mr Es account in this time. So, I dont think this delay led to any increase in Mr Es debt. 
But defaults stay on credit files for six years and so an earlier registration of the default 
would mean that the default drops off of Mr Es credit file slightly sooner  i.e. in 
September 2026 rather than January 2027. Given this, I think Halifaxs delay could 
cause Mr E detriment in the future. And so I think Halifax should now amend its records 
and its reporting to the credit reference agencies to show the default as having been in 
place since 30 September 2020 in order to put this right.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that the application of the default 
was fair. But I think Bank of Scotland plc made a mistake in relation to the timing of 
the default registration and need to put this right.
I direct Bank of Scotland plc to amend its records and its reporting to the credit 
reference agencies to show the default as having been in place since 30 September 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman