DRN-2572771
The complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out by Mr C in December 1997. The 
policy was added to Mr Cs credit card during a meeting in one of Halifaxs branches. The 
policy and card ended in October 2002.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint for the following reasons:
I am persuaded Halifax made Mr C aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to 
take it. I say this because, although I cant be sure what was said between both parties 
during the meeting, I can see from the application form provided by Halifax that PPI 
was presented as an optional requirement. So, after seeing this, on balance, I think 
that Mr C was more likely than not given a choice to have PPI in the meeting and he 
agreed to it by signing the application form. 
I think Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr C in the meeting, so because of this it had 
to check if the policy was suitable for him. Halifax also had to ensure that the 
information it gave Mr C was clear, fair and not misleading so that he could make an 
informed choice about the insurance. 
When looking at Mr Cs circumstances at the time, I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation. Mr C says he cant remember what he was entitled to with his sick 
pay. He also says he had no other means at that time. So, because of this I am 
persuaded that for any extended period of sickness or unemployment, the benefit 
provided by the policy would have been of some use to Mr C. I could find any other 
reason why the policy would be unsuitable for Mr C either.
I dont think on this occasion Mr C was affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
within the policy such as those given for pre-existing medical conditions. 
Im not sure if the costs were clearly disclosed to Mr C. But I think he wouldve taken 
the policy anyway even if they were for the reasons already given. The PPI policy was 
competitively priced and affordable.  
I think it unlikely Mr C would have made a different decision if better information had been 
provided and I think the policy recommended was suitable for him. So, I dont uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman