DRN-4002799
The complaint
W, a limited company, complains Cumberland Building Society wouldnt offer it mortgage 
lending on a property, due to comments from its valuer about the size and resale prospects 
of the property. Mr M brings this complaint on behalf of W.
What happened
Mr M told us that hed applied on behalf of W to take out a mortgage with Cumberland on a 
residential property. He said W paid the valuation fee of £440, and a valuer visited. But the 
valuers report said "re-sale prospects are extremely limited" for the property, due to its size, 
which the valuer said was fractionally under 30 square metres. 
Mr M said that given the propertys location, it was wrong for Cumberland to question the 
resale prospects. And he said considering the loan to value W was applying for, there was 
little risk for the lender. Mr M said that aside from the valuation, there was nothing standing 
in the way of Cumberland lending to W. 
Mr M said he wanted to formally complain about the valuer involved. He wanted Cumberland 
to pay back the fee it had taken, because it didnt tell him there was a minimum floorspace 
requirement for its lending. And he wanted compensation of £10,000 for loss of earnings, 
time and opportunity cost due to arbitrary decision-making by Cumberland, reliant on an 
unquestioning acceptance of a convoluted opinion propounded by an ill-informed valuer.
Cumberland didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that when W applied for this 
mortgage, Mr M signed on its behalf, acknowledging that both it and the valuer wouldnt 
accept responsibility to W for the valuation report. Cumberland also said the same 
application had made clear that the valuation fee was not refundable. 
Cumberland said it had instructed an independent valuer who was a member of the 
appropriate professional body. And its underwriters then made a decision, based on the 
report provided by the valuer, not to lend to W. Cumberland said it had no basis on which to 
question the report provided on its behalf. So Cumberland wouldnt refund the valuation fee, 
or pay W compensation. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that our service 
cannot consider a complaint about what the valuer did. Valuers arent covered by our 
service. So we can only look at what Cumberland did in this case. 
Our investigator said Cumberland had instructed an independent and appropriately qualified 
valuer to value the property. That valuer had reported what, in their opinion, was the 
propertys value and resale ability. Our investigator said that Cumberland is entitled to rely 
on what the valuation report says to decide whether to lend the money W asked for.
Our investigator said she understood Mr M didnt agree with the valuers conclusions, but 
she didnt think Cumberland had any reason to doubt or question the valuers competency. 
So, it did nothing wrong in relying on the valuation report. Our investigator said Cumberland 
had explained that the valuation fee was non-refundable, and its purpose was to help 
Cumberland with its lending decision. So she didnt think Cumberland had to pay that back. 
Our investigator didnt think Cumberland treated W unfairly or unreasonably when it declined 
this mortgage application. And she didnt think it needed to do anything more.
Mr M replied on behalf of W, saying he wanted to appeal. He said Cumberland hadnt told W 
during the application that size of the floorspace of the property was a prerequisite, or that a 
smaller floorspace would lead to the application being rejected just for that reason. He said 
that although Cumberland said it didnt have a minimum size criterion, the application was 
rejected precisely on this basis. And he said it was remarkable to suggest a property in this 
location wouldnt sell for 70% of the valuers valuation. 
Mr M said lenders are supposed to set out the criteria for lending in advance of an 
application being made, and Cumberland hadnt done that. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said Cumberland assessed the propertys 
suitability for lending. She didnt think Cumberland would have to set out all of its lending 
criteria before W applied. And here, she didnt think Cumberland did have a minimum size 
criteria for lending. She said Cumberland turned down the lending based on what its valuer 
said about resale, and she still thought Cumberland was entitled to rely on that.
Mr M said hed had the property measured by another consultant, who said it was larger 
than Cumberlands valuer said. This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Our investigator has explained to Mr M that we cannot consider what the valuer did in this 
case. Thats right - our service doesnt deal with complaints about valuers, so I cannot 
consider whether this valuers conclusions were right or wrong. All I can consider is whether 
it was reasonable for Cumberland to rely on what that valuer said, and whether, in the light 
of the valuation it received, it has reached a fair and reasonable decision. 
Banks and building societies arent experts on the value of properties. So they often source 
that expertise elsewhere, and commission advice, before they make lending decisions. And 
in this case, Im satisfied that Cumberland appointed an appropriately accredited valuer to 
inspect this property. So my starting point is that it would be reasonable for Cumberland to 
rely on the advice it received here.
I know more recently, Mr M says hes had the property measured again, and that consultant 
reached a different conclusion about its size. But I cant say that Cumberland should have 
challenged the valuation report it received, because of this. Thats because I havent been 
able to see that Mr M told Cumberland about this at the time. So I dont think Cumberland 
had any reason to consider the valuers decision was flawed, when it received the decision.
I think that Cumberland then considered this report, and decided not to lend using this 
property as security. And I think it based that decision on the advice it had received about 
the size of the property and particularly how this would affect its resale prospects. I understand that Mr M is adamant that Cumberland has rejected the mortgage application 
secured on this property on the basis of the propertys size. And he says thats not fair, 
because Cumberland didnt tell him that one of its lending criteria was the size of the 
property, before he made this application for W. But I dont think Cumberland had to tell Mr 
M that. Thats simply because I dont think Cumberland does have such a criterion. 
As I set out above, I think that Cumberland considered the valuation report it received. It 
considered the views expressed there about the size, and most importantly, about how this 
affected the resale potential of the property. And it decided not to lend. 
Mr M says that theres no way this property would sell for less than W was asking to borrow, 
70% of the valuation. But what Cumberland does, when it decides whether to lend, is to 
assess the risk to it, if the worst case scenario transpires and W isnt able to pay the 
mortgage. That risk isnt just in what a property might eventually sell for. Its also how long it 
might take to sell  which is affected by the resale prospects for the property. And here, 
because Cumberland was told this property had extremely limited resale prospects, I think it 
was entitled to decide this property wasnt something that it wants to use as security for 
lending. Thats not an unfair or unreasonable conclusion for Cumberland to have reached. 
Cumberland said it made clear before the application that the valuation fee wasnt 
refundable. Mr M doesnt appear to me to have challenged that. And I havent seen anything 
in this case to make me think that Cumberland has to pay this fee back.
I havent been able to see that Cumberland has dealt unfairly or unreasonably with Ws 
mortgage application. So, although I know Mr M will be disappointed, I dont think it has to 
pay W any compensation. And that means that Ws complaint wont be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman