DRN-3763526
The complaint
Mr U complains that Spreadex Limited shouldnt have allowed him to open a spreadbetting 
trading account. As a result he suffered financial loss. 
Mr U is being represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC).  
What happened
Mr U opened a spreadbetting account with Spreadex in December 2016. Between 2016 and 
2017 Mr U placed around 454 trades and lost around £3,760. He complained, with the help 
of the CMC, to Spreadex in 2021 and asked for £10,000 compensation. 
Spreadex looked into Mr Us complaint, but didnt agree it had done anything wrong. In short, 
it said that Mr U was repeatedly warned about the high risks of spreadbetting, and in 
particular the risks of losing more than his initial deposit. He declared on the initial 
application form that he had some experience in trading shares and Contracts for 
Differences (CFD). It said that as a result, it concluded that under COBS 10 Mr U had the 
necessary knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in the service he was 
asking Spreadex to provide him. 
It noted that Mr U was not being advised by Spreadex, nor was his attitude to risk relevant to 
the assessment  or even asked. It concluded that it didnt consider it needed to pay him 
compensation. 
Mr U remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into his complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, he concluded that 
Spreadex was entitled to rely on the information Mr U provided to it, which suggested he had 
enough knowledge and experience to understand the risks. He was also provided with a 
number of risk warnings that clearly outlined the risks of trading. 
Mr U asked for an ombudsmans decision but did not provide any further comments.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence Ive seen includes Mr Us statements, showing how he traded, his initial 
application questions and the complaint made on his behalf to Spreadex. 
Ive also considered the rules as they were set out in COBS 10 when Mr U opened his 
account. Although theres been some reference to COBS 10A, which are the current rules in 
relation to financial spreadbetting, they didnt apply in 2016. However, that distinction is 
broadly immaterial. 
In 2016, when Mr U opened his account, Spreadex needed to ask him to provide information 
regarding his knowledge and experience, relevant to the specific type of product or service 
demanded, so as to enable it to assess whether the service or product was appropriate for 
him. 
This assessment included determining whether Mr U had the necessary knowledge and 
experience in order to understand the risks involved in the product or service demanded. 
COBS 10 allowed Spreadex to rely on the information provided by Mr U, unless it was aware 
that the information was manifestly out of date, inaccurate or incomplete. 
COBS 10.2.6 allowed Spreadex to be satisfied that Mr Us knowledge alone was sufficient 
for him to understand the risks  and in other circumstances, Spreadex could also infer 
knowledge from any relevant experience. 
If Spreadex concluded that the account was not appropriate for Mr U, it needed to warn him 
of this fact under COBS 10.3. And if, despite this warning, Mr U still intended on opening his 
account, guidance under COBS 10.3.3 said that it would be for the firm to consider whether 
to [allow him] to do so having regard to the circumstances. 
My role in looking at Mr Us complaint isnt to substitute my decision-making for Spreadexs 
when looking at the information Mr U provided when he opened his account. Instead, Im 
considering whether its decision to deem the account appropriate, as it did do, was fair and 
reasonable taking into account the above and the answers Mr U gave it. 
In looking at the appropriateness assessment, Im not persuaded it was in fact robust 
enough for Spreadex to have concluded, fairly and reasonably, that Mr U had sufficient 
knowledge and experience to understand the risks of spreadbetting. To be clear, Im not 
finding that the account was not appropriate  the fact that Mr U had traded CFDs before 
shows that he had some experience of derivatives and leverage, and further questions or 
information from him may well have been sufficient for Spreadex to reach the same 
conclusion. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Spreadex knew very little about his actual experience - all it 
knew was that he sometimes traded CFDs. It had no information about how long he had 
traded CFDs for, how frequently or how long before he opened his application. And in terms 
of his knowledge, Mr U wasnt asked to demonstrate any  so it isnt clear to me how 
Spreadex satisfied itself of this. In my view, these questions gave precious little information 
to Spreadex.
However, even if I thought that Spreadexs conclusion that this account was appropriate 
wasnt fair and reasonable, Id need to go on and consider what wouldve happened had it 
gathered more information by conducting a better assessment. Its possible Mr U wouldve 
provided additional evidence of his trading, satisfying Spreadex that he had sufficient 
knowledge and experience to understand the risks. In which case nothing wouldve changed. 
If a more adequate assessment wouldve concluded that Mr U did not have sufficient 
knowledge and experience to understand the risks, then COBS 10 wouldve required 
Spreadex to provide a warning to Mr U explaining this to him. In that case, Id need to be 
satisfied that this warning wouldve been enough to stop Mr U from opening his account 
altogether, thereby avoiding the losses he sustained. 
Given the evidence available, Im not persuaded that a warning wouldve made any 
difference to Mr Us desire to proceed. I say this for the following reasons:
He was clearly told when he filled out the application that he could lose more than his 
initial deposit or credit limit, and that spread betting involves a higher level of risk. He received warnings on all correspondence sent to him, as well as in the terms of 
the account. The Risk Warning Notice in particular sets out the high risk to Mr Us 
capital and that this product was unsuitable for many members of the public. It 
explained that the high degree of leverage meant that a small adverse market 
movement could quickly result in the loss of your entire deposit. It outlined several 
other specific risks which Mr U was required to accept. 
Ive consulted an archived version of Spreadexs website that also shows numerous 
risk warnings, including that spreadbetting carries a high level of risk to your capital 
and can result in losses larger than your initial stake/deposit. 
Within a day of opening his account, he asked to double his credit limit to £1,000  
but this was declined. 
He placed numerous trades from January 2017 with small wins, and then lost over 
£1,800. This did not deter him from continuing to trade  and a few days later made 
another sizeable loss of over £1,300. 
Despite this, he continued to trade for the remainder of 2017, increasing his overall 
losses and making small wins. 
In my view, given the level of information Mr U was provided at the outset and all the risk 
warnings he was given, Im not persuaded an additional warning wouldve made any 
difference to his desire to trade. The fact that he had some experience in trading CFDs 
supports this, as in my view it demonstrates that he already knew that this was a high risk 
venture  but was happy to pursue this in order to generate higher returns. 
The final element of COBS 10 is the guidance at COBS 10.3.3 which suggests that firms 
ought to consider, taking into account the circumstances, whether or not to let a consumer 
proceed despite a warning that the service requested isnt appropriate. 
The FCA hasnt provided any specific scenarios of when firms ought to exercise this 
discretion to unilaterally prevent consumers from opening an account. And Im satisfied that 
if the regulator didnt want consumers, who didnt pass the appropriateness assessment, to 
still request the service or product, it wouldve said so. The fact that firms are guided to 
consider all the circumstances indicates that in the regulators view, firms need to balance 
the best interests of their customers by weighing up the risks of the product or service 
demanded, versus the customers interests in doing something they clearly want to do. 
So Ive looked at Mr Us circumstances at the time. Im not persuaded that in the specific 
circumstances of Mr Us case there were any particular reasons that ought to have prompted 
Spreadex to unilaterally stop Mr U from doing something he clearly wanted to do  and for 
which he had some experience, and ample warning of the risks. 
Taking all this into account I dont consider Spreadex is required to pay any compensation to 
Mr U  although I have some misgivings about the fairness of the process it followed to 
determine whether the account was appropriate for him, Im satisfied his account wouldve 
been opened regardless, and the losses sustained were therefore trading losses incurred by 
Mr Us trading decisions, and not caused by something Spreadex did or didnt do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Us complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman