DRN-2734516
The complaint
This is a complaint that Pendragon Finance and Insurance Services Limited (trading as 
Vardy Care) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mr R. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2006. The policy covered payments on a 
hire purchase agreement used to buy a vehicle. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mr R has said, but Ive decided I cant conclude the policy was mis-
sold. I will explain why.
The sale took place about 15 years ago and, not surprisingly, not all the documents from the 
time are still available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to rely fully on everything 
they remember. Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the 
case and trying to reach a fair decision. 
Mr R has said the salesman said he wouldnt get the finance unless he also took PPI. 
The problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth having and it 
is clear the customer still has a choice. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have 
no real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant 
be sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say Pendragon did something wrong 
unless I had stronger evidence of this. 
Pendragon recommended the PPI to Mr R, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The PPI could have paid the hire 
purchase instalments for a period longer than Mr Rs employment sick pay and other 
resources lasted. And it would have paid out at the same time as any sick pay or 
redundancy pay, so leaving Mr R more financially secure for longer. It would have meant 
Mr R wouldnt need to fall back on other resources, such as savings, so soon.  So, overall, 
the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  And I cant see any 
other reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Looking at the document Mr R signed, I think Pendragon gave reasonable information about 
the costs and benefits payable under the policy. 
Overall, I dont have good evidence the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman