DRN-4140814
The complaint
Mr F complains about the offer of redress made by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada 
(U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) in 2001, following an industry wide pension review. Hes unhappy 
that it didnt remind him the offer was still available when he changed his address in 2011.  
Mr Fs complaint has been brought on his behalf by a professional representative (CMC). 
For ease, Ill mainly refer to the complaint as having been brought by Mr F throughout this 
decision. 
What happened
In the late 90s, all businesses that had advised on pension transfers were required by the 
then regulator to conduct a review of a pension transfer advice. Mr F had a pension that fell 
within the scope of this review. 
Following the review of Mr Fs pension, Sun Life wrote to Mr F at the address it had on 
record for him in 2001 confirming he had lost out financially and made an offer of redress. It 
didnt receive a response from Mr F, despite sending numerous follow up letters. Sun Life 
wrote again to Mr F in October 2003 saying he had three months to accept the offer, after 
which time, the redress amount would be frozen, and it wouldnt recalculate or backdate the 
amount of redress offered. 
Sun Life says it didnt receive anything further from Mr F until January 2011 when Mr F 
contacted it to change his address.
Mr F complained to Sun Life in 2022 via his representative. He said Sun Life hadnt made 
any attempts to contact him after 2003. And it hadnt informed him of the outstanding offer of 
redress when he changed his address in 2011. Mr F asked Sun Life to recalculate the 
redress and bring it up to date so that he benefitted from investment returns from 2003 until 
the present date. 
Sun Life didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. It said it had written to him on many occasions 
setting out its offer of redress in between 2001 and 2003 and had received no response. It 
was still willing to offer the frozen amount of redress  that which was available to him in 
2003 - but it wasnt willing to update the redress calculation to take into account the years 
which had since passed. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr F referred his complaint to us. One of our Investigators 
looked into the complaint. She explained that our Service didnt have jurisdiction to consider 
a complaint about how a review such as this was carried out. 
Mr F didnt accept this and said that by the time the review had been conducted, hed 
changed addresses so didnt receive any of Sun Lifes correspondence. Mr F confirmed that 
his complaint was, predominantly, that Sun life didnt inform him of the offer of redress when 
he changed his address in 2011. Mr F reiterated that redress should be updated to the 
present date, or at least from 2011 to present date when he thinks Sun Life shouldve 
reminded him of its offer. 
Our Investigator didnt agree. She said Mr F got in touch with Sun Life in 2011 regarding an 
address change. And there was no need for Sun Life to discuss a redress offer from ten 
years previously which was unrelated to his reason for calling. Mr F asked that the complaint 
be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our Investigator explained, the calculation of redress in this case isnt a regulated activity. 
This means its not something that our Service can consider as a complaint point. However, 
Mr F has confirmed that the complaint he is making is that Sun Life didnt draw his attention 
to the 2001 offer of redress when he called to change his address in 2011.
Ive seen copies of the letters sent to Mr F from 2001 to 2003 sent to the address Sun Life 
had for Mr F at the time. Sun Life reminded Mr F a number of times that the offer of redress 
was available, and that if he didnt accept it, it would remain available, but the amount would 
be frozen and wouldnt be recalculated at a later date. Im aware that Mr F says hed 
changed address by this point. But I cant see that hed made Sun Life aware of this. And 
Sun Life hasnt told us that any of these letters were returned as undelivered. Based on this, 
I dont think Sun Life shouldve been aware that Mr F hadnt received these letters. And I 
think Sun Life did enough to make Mr F aware of the offer of redress between 2001 to 2003.
When Mr F contacted Sun Life in 2011, it was to change his address. I see no reason why 
Sun Life shouldve made Mr F aware again of the offer of redress. He hadnt called to 
discuss this. So, I dont think it had an obligation to remind him again.
Sun Life has said that the offer of redress remains available as it was in 2003 but it wont 
update it. I think this is fair and reasonable, so Im not going to ask it to recalculate or update 
the redress offer.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman