DRN-4016457
Complaint
Ms J is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited wont reimburse her after she fell victim to a 
scam.
Background
In April 2022, Ms J received a phone call from someone who claimed to be an employee of 
Starlings fraud team. They told her that there were security concerns regarding her account 
and that she needed to take prompt action to protect her money. Unfortunately, this call had 
not come from an employee of Starling, but a fraudster.
The scammer did several things to persuade Ms J that she was genuinely speaking to an 
employee of Starling. They referred to a recent suspicious phishing text message shed 
received from Royal Mail. They took Ms J through a phony security process, asking her the 
same sorts of questions that shed expect a genuine employee of the bank to ask. They also 
sent her a text message during the call that said You are on a call with an agent to discuss 
recent transactions and presented it as if the message had been sent by Starling. 
The scammer told her that she needed to move her money to a safe account and that one 
had already been created for her with a third-party bank. That third-party has no connection 
to Starling, but the fraudster told Ms J that the two banks worked in partnership when it came 
to fraud prevention measures.
Ms J authorised the payments through the Starling app. A warning was displayed initially 
which said the following:
Are you being told to make this payment? Anyone telling you what buttons to click, 
or asking you to read the text on this screen out loud is a criminal. You must not 
make the payment if you are being told how to answer the question or explain the 
payment. Read each question carefully and answer truthfully, otherwise you could 
lose all the money sent.
The app then posed a series of questions about the payments she was making. It asked 
what the purpose of the payment was, how Ms J knew the recipient, whether shed paid 
them before and so on. A second warning was then displayed:
Fraudsters will tell you how to answer these questions to scam you. A genuine 
organisation will never do this. A bank or any other organisation will never tell you to 
move money to a new, safe account. Fraudsters can make phone calls appear to 
come from a different number. Are you speaking with who you think you are? If in 
doubt call us ..
Ms J says that the scammer seemed to know which questions were being displayed at each 
point during the process which affirmed her belief that she was genuinely dealing with an 
employee of the bank. She says she was talked through how to answer each question and 
the scammers stressed the urgency of the situation. She was told that the longer her money 
remained in her account, the greater the chance that she would lose it.
Once Ms J realised that shed fallen victim to a scam, she notified Starling. It looked into 
things but decided to not reimburse her. It considered her complaint by applying the terms of 
the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. It said that 
she hadnt carried out sufficient checks before making the payment and it said that it had 
presented Ms J with effective warnings during the payment process. These clearly 
addressed the type of scam that shed been targeted by and so she shouldnt have 
proceeded with the payments.
Ms J was unhappy with that and so she referred her complaint to this service. It was looked 
at by an Investigator who upheld it. The Investigator didnt think that the warnings displayed 
during the payment process met the codes definition of an effective warning. She didnt 
think they were sufficiently specific and, although the second of the two warnings specifically 
uses the term safe account, she didnt think the warning did enough to bring to life what 
such a scam might appear like from the customers perspective. She was also persuaded 
that Ms J had a reasonable basis for believing that the payments she was making were 
legitimate. The scammers had been able to do enough to convince her that they were 
genuinely calling from the banks fraud department. In the Investigators view, Ms J hadnt 
been careless to have been taken in by this. 
Starling disagreed with the Investigators view. It pointed out that Ms J had seen a warning 
which unambiguously asked if she was being told to make the payment. Shed also seen a 
warning which told her that, if anyone directed her as to how to answer the questions in the 
app, she should think twice before proceeding with the payment. As Starling disagreed with 
the Investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to consider and come to a final 
decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Im required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be 
good industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made a payment because of the actions of a fraudster, it may sometimes be fair 
and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they authorised the 
payment. 
The Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model code (the CRM code) is 
of particular significance here. Starling isnt a signatory to that code, but it has agreed to 
adhere to it. It requires its signatories to reimburse customers who are victims of scams like 
this one in all but a limited number of circumstances. Starling says that one or more of those 
exceptions are applicable in this case. 
Starling says that the following exceptions to reimbursement are applicable here:
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such a warning.
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
Ive considered the facts of this case carefully and Im not persuaded that either exception is 
applicable here.
Warnings
First, I dont think that the warnings met the definition of effective warning under the code. It 
says an effective warning must be understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific. 
The text of the warnings clearly had content that was relevant to this type of scam. If Ms J 
were given the time to have taken on board the content of the warning and process it, Id 
have expected it to have an impact on her decision making. 
However, for the warning to be impactful, Ms J needed time and mental space to process 
what the warning said. Ive looked at how the warning was presented on the screen. I can 
see that Ms J wouldve been presented with the option to continue with the payment or to 
cancel. Those two options were next to one another. The layout of the warning page risked 
making it feel like an administrative part of the payments process that many customers 
simply click through robotically without thinking about. 
Thats a problem when attempting to prevent a scam like this. The approach of the 
fraudsters was to stop Ms J from pausing to think about what she was doing. I can see from 
the technical evidence supplied by Starling that the time between the first warning appearing 
on screen and the first question related to the payment being posed was a little over one 
minute. That doesnt necessarily mean that all of that time was spent reading the warning or 
thinking about its content. Id expect there to be at least a very short lag-time between her 
proceeding past the warning and on to the first question. In addition to that, her testimony is 
that the fraudsters talked to her continuously throughout the process and stressed that time 
was of the essence. The longer she left the situation unaddressed, the greater the risk to her 
money. Theyd successfully created a panicked state of mind in Ms J making it considerably 
more difficult for the warning to be impactful.
This is a known tactic for scammers when trying to reduce the impact of warnings on a 
customers decision-making process. Having identified that there was a meaningful risk of 
Ms J falling victim to a safe account scam, the warning needed to take into account the 
likelihood that the scammers would attempt to reduce its impact in this way. 
Reasonable basis of belief
Im also satisfied that Ms J made these payments with a reasonable basis to believe that 
they were in response to a legitimate request from Starling.
The scammers knew enough to instil a false confidence in Ms J that she was genuinely 
speaking to her bank. They knew that shed received a phishing text that looked like it was 
from Royal Mail. They were able to confirm the number on her card, that thered been an 
attempted payment on that card and that it had been cancelled. The scammers were able to 
send her a text message that appeared to have come from Starling that looked like it 
confirmed that she was genuinely speaking to one of their employees. She also told us that 
the scammers seemed to know Starlings payment system very well and she assumed that 
only a genuine employee of the bank would have that degree of knowledge. 
All the actions Ms J subsequently took must be seen in that context  i.e. that she sincerely
believed she was following the instructions of her banks fraud team. Starling has pointed to 
certain aspects of what she was being asked to do that she shouldve regarded with greater suspicion. For example, the fact that she was being asked to make payments to accounts 
held with another bank or that those accounts appeared to be personal accounts in the 
name of specific individuals. 
These things were explained by the scammers. The explanations that they gave carried 
more weight because Ms J had already been persuaded that this genuinely was a call from 
Starlings fraud team. Ive already explained that I dont think Ms J was careless in believing 
that she was genuinely speaking to her bank, so I dont think I can reasonably say that she 
was careless for acting on the advice she believed the bank was giving her. 
Im also not persuaded that the warnings given during the payment process served to 
undermine the reasonableness of Ms Js belief that this was a legitimate request from 
Starling. As I explained above, Ive found that the way the scammers coached Ms J through 
the process meant that she didnt take on board the contents of the warning. The fact that 
she didnt do so means that it cant have affected the reasonableness of her belief here.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
If Ms J accepts my decision, Starling Bank Limited should reimburse the money she lost to 
the scam, less anything it has already refunded. It should also add 8% simple interest to that 
sum calculated to run from the date it declined her claim under the CRM until the date any 
settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman