DRN-2969454
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as F complains HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly refused to correct 
an error on its Bounce Back Loan application. 
The complaint is brought on Fs behalf by its director, Mrs S.   
What happened
In May 2020, F applied to HSBC for a Bounce Back Loan of £10,000. The bank approved 
Fs application shortly after and the loan was drawn down a couple of days later.
A couple of weeks later, Mrs S called HSBC and said her husband had put an incorrect 
amount for the business turnover on Fs Bounce Back Loan application form. She said the 
turnover should have been £160,000 not £40,000. Under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, a 
business could borrow 25% of its annual turnover, so Mrs S said she wanted to increase Fs 
loan amount by a further £30,000  the maximum 25% of Fs correct turnover.
HSBC told Mrs S that as shed signed the facility offer letter and F had received the funds, it 
was unable to change the Bounce Back Loan. However, Mrs S said the bank suggested she 
may want to repay Fs existing loan and apply again for the higher amount. So, on the same 
day, Mrs S submitted a new Bounce Back Loan application for F for £40,000.
Mrs S said she called HSBC in early June as she hadnt heard from the bank about Fs 
second Bounce Back Loan application. Mrs S said HSBC told her again to cancel the 
original application and reapply for the higher amount. 
When Mrs S still hadnt had a response from HSBC about Fs new loan application, she 
called to make a complaint. HSBC apologised for the incorrect information Mrs S said shed 
received when shed called the bank in May and June. HSBC told Mrs S that it was only able 
to process Fs first loan application and couldnt make any changes or amendments, as F 
had already received the facility offer letter and drawn down the loan. So the bank said it 
wouldnt be processing Fs new application.
F tried to apply for additional borrowing under the Bounce Back Loan Top-Up Scheme using 
the higher turnover in November. But HSBC also declined this application. Mrs S asked 
HSBC to reconsider and use the higher turnover amount but the bank explained it wasnt 
able to do this, as the information provided in the original application couldnt be changed. 
So Mrs S made another complaint. She said the original turnover amount was incorrect so 
she thought F should be eligible under the loan Top-Up Scheme. 
HSBC didnt uphold the second complaint. The bank said it was unable to process Fs new 
application under the Top-Up Scheme as this was only for businesses which hadnt already 
utilised the full original Bounce Back Loan availability. But based on the information provided 
by F in its original loan application, it had already received the full amount and therefore 
wasnt eligible for a top-up. Mrs S didnt agree and asked this service to look into Fs 
complaint.  
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She thought HSBC had 
processed Fs original application correctly. And she said the bank had acted in line with the 
Scheme rules when declining to amend the turnover amount on the second application and 
rejecting Fs application for a Top-Up loan. However, she thought the bank had given 
misleading information to Mrs S about making these changes, so she thought HSBC should 
pay F £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
HSBC agreed, but Mrs S didnt. She said HSBC had given her false hope about changing 
Fs loan amount and because of this, F was in difficulty. As an agreement couldnt be 
reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold it in part. Ill explain why. 
The original Bounce Back Loan application
Under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, businesses were required to fill in a short application 
form and self-declare that they were eligible for the Scheme. Ive seen the original 
application form F submitted, which said the annual turnover was £40,000. Mrs S also 
agreed to a declaration which confirmed that the information was complete and accurate.  
Ive seen a copy of Fs loan agreement which says, all declarations made by you in your 
application form for this Loan are true, complete and accurate and have not become 
misleading or incorrect. The agreement also says, Once you have accepted this 
Agreement this request cannot be amended. So I think Mrs S ought reasonably to have 
been aware  at least from the time she received the agreement - that she would only be 
able to submit one Bounce Back Loan application for F under the Scheme rules. And that 
the information contained within the application needed to be correct as this was the basis of 
Fs loan agreement, and once accepted, it wouldnt be possible for HSBC to make any 
changes.
I acknowledge Mrs S has told us the reasons the information was incorrect. But the 
application she signed on Fs behalf was the basis for Fs loan agreement, and any 
borrowing provided under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme was based on the declarations 
signed by the borrower  so it was important this was accurate. So based on what Ive seen I 
dont think HSBC did anything wrong in how it processed Fs application.
Mrs S said she contacted HSBC to ask them to increase the loan as the turnover figure for F 
was wrong, but the bank wouldnt do it which she felt was unfair. But I dont agree. By the 
time Mrs S contacted HSBC, Fs loan had already been drawdown and under the terms of 
the Bounce Back Loan Scheme say a borrower can only have one Bounce Back Loan. So 
HSBC were following the Scheme rules when they declined Mrs Ss request as it wasnt a 
decision the bank had any discretion over.
The Top-Up Application
Mrs S also thought it was unfair that HSBC declined Fs top-up loan application. But Ive 
looked at the application form she completed, and Ive seen the eligibility criteria clearly says 
in the Bounce Back Loan  Top-Up Key Features  If you have borrowed less than 25% of 
the annual turnover you state on your original Bounce Back Loan application form, you are 
eligible for a Top-Up. The combined value of the original loan and Top-Up cannot exceed 25% of your originally stated turnover and is subject to an overall cap of £50,000. 
I can see that Fs Top-Up application requested a further £35,000, which may have been 
25% of the higher turnover. However, looking at Fs original Bounce Back Loan application  
incorrect or not  it said Fs turnover was £40,000. As F had received a £10,000 loan from its 
first application, this meant it had already had the maximum loan of 25% of its annual 
turnover and wasnt eligible for any further borrowing. So Im satisfied HSBC treated F fairly 
as the bank processed Fs application in line with the Top-Up Scheme rules. 
Misleading information about a new loan application 
Mrs S told us she was given incorrect information several times by HSBC about applying for 
a new Bounce Back Loan using the higher turnover figure. Although HSBC havent been 
able to provide a copy of these calls, Ive seen the banks system notes which support what 
Mrs S has told us. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think Mrs S was given misleading information which meant she 
spent time submitting new applications for F and contacting the bank for updates on these. 
So I think HSBC caused F inconvenience from the time and effort Mrs S spent, trying to 
change an outcome, which wasnt going to be possible under the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme rules. So I think HSBC should pay F £150 compensation to address this.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay F 
£150 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman