DRN-2381410
The complaint
Mr S complains Health-on-line Company UK Limited over-charged him, after offering a 
discount on his premium. 
What happened
Mr S holds a private medical insurance policy with Health-on-line, and this is renewable 
annually. He said when he renewed his policy in 2019, he was offered a reduced premium. 
However, when he received renewal documents the following year, he noticed hed been 
paying a higher amount. 
Mr S complained to Health-on-line about the overcharges and asked for these to be 
refunded. 
Health-on-line said itd listened to a call Mr S made at the end of January 2019, when his 
policy was renewed. And it said itd provided correct information about the premium amount, 
and hadnt offered a discount. It also said itd sent renewal documents to Mr S, which had 
shown the correct premium amount. 
Unhappy with Health-on-lines response, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened, and said she didnt think Health-on-line 
had done anything wrong. 
Mr S disagreed with the view. He said the call recording which had been supplied by Health-
on-line was not the call he was referring to. He said hed made another call where he was 
told he could get a small discount due to having not made a claim. And he said he thought 
Health-on-line may not have a recording or note of that call, as he was transferred between 
departments. 
The investigator asked Health-on-line for its call notes, and said shed not found any 
evidence of the call Mr S referred to. So she still didnt think Health-on-line had done 
anything wrong. 
Health-on-line didnt make any comments on the investigators view.
Mr S still disagreed, and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. And so the case has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the call Mr S made to Health-on-line at the end of January 2019. During this 
call, he asked questions about no claims discount entitlements for him and his wife, and he 
asked about the price difference between their premiums. Health-on-line said pricing was 
calculated on a case by case basis, taking into account various factors, so it was likely he 
and his wife would be charged a different amount. It said Mr S hadnt qualified for a discount, 
but said if he didnt make any claims in the next year, he could be eligible for a discount next 
time.
Mr S also asked about the information provided in his renewal letter about his premium 
amounts. Health-on-line confirmed the figures stated and said this was the price paid the 
year before, and that the renewal price had increased. Mr S was told the cost of his 
premiums the previous year, and this was a similar figure to that which Mr S says he was 
offered for the year starting in February 2019. And having listened carefully to what was 
said, Im satisfied Mr S wasnt offered a premium discount during this call. 
Mr S has said he called Health-on-line again around a week later, and it was during that 
second call, that he was given a discount on his premium. Mr S has been unable to provide 
any further details or evidence of the second call he made. And Health-on-line has said it 
doesnt have a record of it. Having asked Mr S why he made the second call, he said it was 
because he wasnt satisfied after his first call. And he said when he called again, he was 
transferred between departments, so he thinks thats the reason Health-on-line cant find a 
call recording. 
Health-on-line have provided the notes from their system which show records of calls with 
Mr S and what was discussed. However there is no entry which relates to a call shortly after 
the one at the end of January 2019, and nothing relating to a discount being offered for the 
2019  2020 policy year. 
Ive asked Health-on-line about its call recording system. It confirmed that all calls are 
recorded, even when transferred from one department to another. And it provided evidence 
of the searches it had carried out, showing no further record of a call from Mr Ss telephone 
number, in the weeks after the call he made at the end of January. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr S recollects being advised of a lower premium, Im not persuaded by 
the evidence Ive seen, that Health-on-line offered a discount on his renewal price for the 
2019 - 2020 policy year. And because of this, I wont be asking Health-on-line to take any 
action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Health-on-line Company UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman