DRN-2646647
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that their home insurance claim for theft of a quad bike was
rejected by HDI Global Specialty SE.  
What happened
In September 2020 Mr and Mrs F made a claim to HDI after their quad bike was stolen from
their garden. They had bought the quad bike with their house in 2017 and used it for
transporting loads around the garden. The quad bike was also fitted with a topper which
Mr and Mrs F used to cut wild grass in the summer months. They didnt use the quad bike
outside the grounds of their property and it wasnt suitable for driving on the road.
HDI rejected the claim as it considered the bike to be a motor vehicle within the definition in
the policy, and therefore excluded from the contents cover. It further pointed out that if it had
accepted the bike as a ride-on lawnmower there would be no cover under the policy as it
wasnt kept in a locked outbuilding. Further it pointed out that for contents in the open the
policy limit is £1,000.
On referral to this service our investigator said that she didnt think that the quad bike could
be regarded as a garden implement, as Mrs F had argued. As she thought it was a motor
vehicle she agreed that the claim wasnt covered under the policy
Mr and Mrs F disagreed  they said that the quad bike couldnt be used on the road and
never had been since they bought it. It was used for a wide range of gardening tasks. It has
a front bucket loader and a back rack, as well as the topper. 
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought the quad bike could fairly in this case 
come under the contents cover as a motor vehicle used as a garden implement or 
equipment. So I said that HDI should pay the claim subject to the policy limits.
HDI didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs F responded, accepting the decision, but asked if I would consider asking HDI to 
waive the £100 excess for the following reasons:
They didnt think it was a grey area and that HDI should have accepted the claim 
straight away.
They were given various different reasons for declining the claim.
It took eight weeks for the final response and then they were forced to take the matter to 
the ombudsman, all of which took time and effort.
.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made the following provisional findings:
The claim is made under the contents section of the policy. The definition of contents is:
Household goods and appliances, furniture and furnishings,
money up to £1,000 and any other property belonging to or the
responsibility of you or a member of your family.
But not:
motor vehicles
and the definition of motor vehicles is:
Any electrically, mechanically, power driven or power assisted vehicle, toy or model.
But not:
 c garden implements and equipment used by you or your family within the boundaries of
the land of your home.
HDIs arguments are that the quad bike is a motor vehicle and it cant accept that it is a
garden implement. Theres no mention of quad bikes in the policy so they arent excluded in
themselves. And if HDI had intended such a vehicle to be treated the same as a ride-on
lawnmower, it could have said so. My view is that the above definition accepts that some
motor vehicles are covered so long as they can be construed as garden implements or
equipment. In this case Mr and Mrs F bought the quad bike specifically for the garden, and
by the look of the video theyve sent us, the grounds are quite extensive. I note from the
photo that the quad bike was fitted with a front loader bucket and a rack at the back. It also
had a tow bar to which the topper was fitted.
Ive noted also that Mr and Mrs F have never used the bike on the road as it didnt have
indicators or brake lights. And quad bikes are frequently sold to be used in the garden. This
bike was noted in the sales contract as Fully serviced. Tows Topper. So I think the quad
bike can fairly in this case come under the contents cover as a motor vehicle used as a
garden implement or equipment. And Im satisfied that HDI intended to offer cover for just
such a thing.
I think HDI should pay the claim. But as it has noted, the quad bike was in the garden when
it was stolen, and the policy limit for contents in the open is £1,000 per claim. So it can only
pay a maximum of £1,000, net of any excess (i.e. if the bike is valued at more than £1,000
any excess should be deducted from its total value, not from the policy limit.)
In respect of Mr and Mr Fs request that I require HDI to waive the excess, I should point out, 
as I set out in the last paragraph above, that the excess is taken off the value of the item. 
Thus unless the quad bike is worth less than £1,100 Mr and Mrs F should receive a payment 
of £1,000, even if the excess was waived.
Nevertheless as I do have power to award compensation, I have considered Mr and Mrs Fs 
points. Firstly I do think this is a question of interpretation of the policy terms and wasnt a 
clear cut case. Secondly I think the final response went through the policy terms relating to 
motor vehicles to explain why it was declining the claim, rather than giving different reasons. 
And thirdly the regulations allow the business eight weeks to give its final response and I 
cant award compensation for the time and effort taken to use this service. So I wont award 
compensation in this case.
My provisional findings are now final and form part of this final decision. My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require HDI Global Specialty SE to pay Mr and Mrs Fs claim 
subject to the remaining policy terms.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman