DRN-2522267
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited have 
declined their claim for legal expenses to pursue a dispute with a surveyor. 
For ease of reading, Ill mostly just refer to Mr F. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. In 2017 Mr F enlisted the services of a chartered 
surveyor. A report was produced which is dated 11 September 2017, it records the date of 
inspection as 29 August 2017. The report is titled Pre-Purchase, Shell Building Survey 
Report. On 1 December 2017 Mr and Mrs F went on to purchase the same property that 
was the subject of the report. 
Mr F also took out home insurance which started on the date of purchase (1 December 
2017). This policy included insurance for certain legal expenses which is provided by DAS. 
Mr F later discovered there were damp problems with the property hed purchased. This has 
had a significant impact on Mr F and his family. He says his family have experienced health 
problems and the property has been deemed to be unfit for human habitation.
In 2018 Mr F made a claim to DAS for assistance with this matter. The claim was declined. 
More recently, in 2020, Mr F resubmitted his claim. He says hed received further information 
which meant he believed DAS previous decision was incorrect. DAS looked again at the 
claim and identified it as a duplicate. They declined it again for the same reasons, which 
broadly speaking was they believed the date of occurrence of Mr Fs dispute predated the 
start of the policy. 
Mr F disagreed, he says the policy terms are unclear and complained. When DAS 
maintained their position, the matter was referred to our service. One of our investigators 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought DAS had correctly applied the policy 
terms. Mr F still disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with what our investigator has already explained, and for essentially 
the same reasons. Our investigator has already explained this in some detail, so I wont 
repeat everything, but will focus instead on the reasons for my decision. 
Mr Fs policy says that there is only cover if the date of occurrence of the insured incident is 
during the period of cover. Date of occurrence is given a specific definition in the policy of 
For civil cases, the date of the event that leads to a claim if there is more than one event 
arising at different times from the same originating cause, the date of occurrence is the date 
of the first of these events. (This is the date the event happened which may be before the 
date you first became aware of it).
Mr F says the date of occurrence is the 1 December 2017 when he purchased the property. 
He says hes been advised by his solicitor that this is the date of his loss. He says, but for 
the purchase of the property, there would be no loss and therefore no claim. Ive considered 
this but I dont agree and Ill explain why. The policy specifies that the date of occurrence is 
in relation to an insured incident. The policy provides cover for several insured incidents. 
In this case, the only potential insured incidents would come under either property 
protection or contract disputes sections. The Property protection section provides cover 
for physical damage, nuisance or trespass. I agree with our investigator that this isnt 
applicable to the circumstances of this complaint. 
The Contract Disputes section of the policy covers: A dispute arising from an agreement or 
an alleged agreement which you have entered into in a personal capacity for: buying or 
hiring in goods or services Please note that you must have entered into the agreement or 
alleged agreement during the cover period
There are then specific exclusions listed which include: A dispute over the sale, 
purchaseof land or buildings. However, we will cover a dispute with a professional advisor 
in connection with these matters. " 
So, a dispute about the purchase of the property itself is excluded. But a dispute with a 
surveyor in connection with the purchase of a property is potentially covered. Mr F hired the 
services of the surveyor in a personal capacity. But here, the policy requires that the contract 
was entered into within the period of insurance. Given the surveyor assessed the property in 
August 2017 and provided a report dated September 2017, I think its self-evident that Mr Fs 
contract with the surveyor wasnt entered into after 1 December 2017 (when his policy with 
DAS began). 
Ive carefully considered all Mr F has said in relation to the policy terms. But I dont agree 
that they are unclear or ambiguous  I also dont think these are unfair policy terms. This 
insurance is intended to cover the risk of something happening in the future. So its 
reasonable that events that happened (or started) prior to the policy arent covered. 
DAS and our investigator have both correctly highlighted that if Mr F had existing legal 
expenses cover with another provider that ran prior to his policy with DAS he should share 
this. DAS have said that in that event, they will consider it to see if it makes a difference to 
their position on the claim. I think this is fair. 
I have a great deal of sympathy with the position that Mr and Mrs F find themselves in, 
particularly given the current circumstances and having a young family. But their underlying 
dispute is with the surveyor and I dont think DASs decision on the claim is outside the terms 
of the policy or unfair. The surveyors alleged negligence had already taken place before they 
were on cover with DAS.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman