DRN-2227144
The complaint
Miss B complains that First Complete Limited (trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network) sold 
her a life and critical illness policy and an income protection policy she didnt need. She says 
she was told she had to have the policies as a condition of her mortgage and was pressured 
into buying them. Miss B was also concerned shed paid for the agents advice, who only 
considered policies from one provider. She wants First Complete to accept it mis-sold the 
policies to her as well as pay her financial compensation.
What happened
Miss B took out a mortgage in 2015. Alongside that mortgage, First Complete sold her a life 
and critical illness policy. This provided cover for Miss B in the event of death or a specified 
critical illness. The cover ran for the same term as her mortgage and offered cover for the 
amount shed borrowed  decreasing over time in line with her mortgage repayments. First 
Complete also sold Miss B an income protection policy if she was unable to work due to ill 
health.
When Miss B renewed her mortgage in 2017, she says she was advised to have health 
insurance but was told she didnt need life cover because she lived on own and had no 
dependants. She cancelled the policies and complained to First Complete. First Complete 
didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. It said the documentation was clear there was no obligation 
on her to take out any protection policies. First Complete also explained how Miss B had 
been told it only offered non-investment products with one provider.
First Complete said the two policies were recommended to Miss B, but it was her choice 
whether to accept those recommendations. It said both policies met Miss Bs requirements 
at the time for critical illness cover and income protection. But that because standalone 
critical illness cover wasnt something First Complete offered, it was offered as an optional 
extra to a life policy. First Complete said this policy provided guaranteed protection so 
Miss Bs family members wouldnt be burdened with the mortgage in the event of her death. 
And provided protection for Miss B with her mortgage being paid off in the event she 
suffered a specified critical illness. First Complete also pointed out that the life cover was a 
small proportion of the monthly premium Miss B paid.
One of our investigators considered Miss Bs complaint and partly upheld it. He didnt think 
First Complete misled Miss B into thinking the policies were a requirement of her mortgage. 
Nor did he find First Complete at fault for only recommending policies from one provider. Our 
investigator also said First Complete hadnt charged Miss B for the insurance advice. And he 
thought First Completes recommendation that Miss B have an income protection policy was 
suitable and met her needs and requirements at the time.
But our investigator didnt think First Completes advice to Miss B to have life and critical 
illness cover was suitable, given she had no dependants at the time and lived alone. He said 
he couldnt see any evidence to show it was important to Miss B that her family retain 
ownership of the property in the event she passed away. And he said whilst critical illness 
cover mightve been of more use to Miss B, he still felt this wasnt suitable for her given she 
had no dependants. He asked First Complete to return the premiums Miss B paid for the life 
and critical illness policy, with interest.
Miss B was happy with our investigators opinion. First Complete didnt agree and has asked 
for an Ombudsmans review.
First Complete said it wasnt in dispute that the evidence shows Miss B had a choice 
whether to accept its recommendations. It said she was also provided with the correct 
documentation to make that decision. First Complete also questioned our investigators 
meaning of family. It said just because Miss B had no partner or dependants, there would 
still be family involvement with the property in the event of Miss Bs death. And so, it felt 
having life cover in place to relieve the financial burden on Miss Bs family wasnt 
unreasonable.
First Complete said it wouldve had a conversation with Miss B about what would happen to 
the property in the event of her death. And it wouldve been aware that standalone critical 
illness cover would likely be more expensive for her than life and critical illness cover 
combined. But ultimately First Complete felt it was Miss Bs choice to agree to the cover, 
rather than take out standalone critical illness cover elsewhere with a different provider. First 
Complete added that the demands and needs letter sent to Miss B made it clear she wanted 
life cover because her family wouldn't be able to pay the mortgage and other bills.  
First Complete said regardless of the suitability of the life and critical illness policy for Miss B, 
she made a choice to go ahead with the sale. It also said there was plenty of time between 
the demands and needs letter and the completion letter for Miss B to have shopped around 
to obtain more suitable cover if shed so wished. And for her to seek any advice from her 
conveyancing solicitors or mortgage provider. But she still chose to continue with the sale.
First Complete maintained the life and critical illness policy provided Miss B, and any family 
left behind after her death, with a guaranteed benefit. It also said there were other benefits to 
the policy, such as increase in cover with no underwriting, that should be taken into account. 
It referred to a previous case reviewed by one of our Ombudsmen where he found life cover 
for a single person with no dependants was not necessarily inappropriate, given situations 
change over the course of a mortgage.
Further information from Miss B 
Miss B said she had no recollection of telling First Complete she wanted life cover because 
her family wouldnt be able to pay the mortgage and bills. She said First Complete didnt 
establish her family circumstances  and so she questioned how it could say who the life 
cover would benefit, given it didnt know who would take responsibility for her property in the 
event of her death. 
Miss B said the sale of the policies was going ahead regardless. She accepts she was a 
naive first-time buyer and had no reason to question what First Complete told her or to shop 
around for more suitable cover. But Miss B maintained she was misled into thinking the 
cover was needed to get the mortgage. 
Miss B also said that had her situation changed over the two-year mortgage term, then she 
couldve reassessed the need for cover. Maintaining shed been mis-led into thinking shed 
need life cover from the outset. 
Finally, Miss B told me that the policies were taken out in connection with her first mortgage 
application, which was rejected. So, she questioned why a further assessment wasnt carried 
out in connection with the terms of the mortgage she was accepted for. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing for Miss B, 
particularly as I've reached a different outcome to our investigator. I gave Miss B and First 
Complete the chance to comment further before issuing my final decision. Miss B provided 
some helpful information, and Ive incorporated my comments on that below. First Complete 
didnt add anything further. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. In this decision Ill concentrate my comments on 
what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to 
take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I must make my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. I 
should also add that I look at each case on its own merits. I appreciate why First Complete 
has mentioned another case where a finding was made about the appropriateness of life 
cover when there are no dependants. But I must look at the specifics of this case, and the 
evidence I have to support it.
Miss B hasnt disputed our investigators finding that it was made clear to her First Complete 
would only consider products from one provider and that the income protection policy was 
suitable for her. But Miss B maintains she had to pay for what she believes was poor advice 
and was told she had to have cover to get the mortgage.
The evidence shows First Complete didnt charge Miss B a fee for the insurance advice. And 
it says on the mortgage offer, the key facts document, and the mortgage record of suitability 
that the only conditional insurance for the mortgage was buildings insurance. So, whilst I 
dont know exactly what was said verbally or what discussions took place around her 
mortgage application that was declined, Im satisfied from the paperwork Ive seen that First 
Complete didnt mislead Miss B into thinking the cover it recommended was mandatory to 
get the mortgage shed been offered.  
But Miss B maintains she didnt need the life and critical illness policy. So, my review has 
focussed on the sale of that policy, including the sales process itself, as well as the 
suitability of the advice Miss B was given to take the policy out. 
Looking first at the suitability of the advice, I can see a fact find was completed which 
identified that it was important to Miss B to protect against the financial consequences of her 
death or diagnosis of a critical illness. Looking first at the need for critical illness cover, I can 
see from the demands and needs letter sent to Miss B that her aims and needs in this regard 
were:
if you suffered from a critical illness the impact on your ability to repay the mortgage and 
other bills would be that you would be unable to pay your mortgage and other bills. You have 
confirmed that you want your mortgage paid off in full .
So, this need wasnt specifically linked to Miss Bs family. Rather it meant the mortgage 
would be paid off in the event she was critically ill, alleviating the worry of having to meet 
mortgage payments or even losing her home. And given Miss B was living alone and had full responsibility for the mortgage, I think this is a sensible approach to take. So, I dont think 
First Completes advice for Miss B to have critical illness cover was unsuitable.
The main point of complaint is around the life cover. We know that First Complete didnt offer 
standalone critical illness policies, and so its recommendation was for a life policy with 
critical illness cover included. Miss Bs argument is life cover wasnt needed at all as she had 
no dependants. A persons family situation is something I would consider when looking at 
the suitability of life cover. And Id accept that the risk is less if a person has no partner or 
children dependant on them. But I also look at the specifics of each case, and the evidence 
supporting what was identified during the sales process.
First Complete has said it wouldve had a discussion with Miss B about the financial 
implications on her family in the event of her death. Miss B says she has no recollection of 
such a conversation taking place. I cant say with any degree of certainty exactly what was 
discussed at the meeting. But the demands and needs letter sent to Miss B is consistent on 
this point, where it documents that Miss B discussed life cover with First Complete because 
her aims and views were:
if you died prematurely, the impact on your familys ability to repay the mortgage and other 
bills, would be that they would be unable to pay the mortgage and bills. You have confirmed 
you would want your mortgage paid off in full.
So, on balance, I think Ive got enough to say that a need was identified during the sales 
process for Miss B to have some protection in place in the event of her death. I appreciate 
that Miss B has since been advised that life cover isnt needed, given she has no 
dependants. And I understand her point that she couldve reassessed her need for cover if 
her situation changed during the mortgage term. But that doesnt automatically mean the 
advice she was given in 2015 was unsuitable. Particularly as the documentation indicates 
Miss B acknowledged the impact on her family  despite not having dependants at that time 
- of meeting her mortgage commitments in the event of her death.
Even though it was only possible for Miss B to have critical illness cover as part of a life 
policy through First Complete, I think the life cover part of the policy still met Miss Bs needs. 
And so, I dont think recommending a life policy with critical illness cover, particularly given 
the bulk of the monthly premium is for the critical illness cover, was unreasonable.
So, taking everything into account, I dont think First Completes recommendation to Miss B 
to take out a life and critical illness policy was unsuitable. I should add here that the policy 
matched the term of Miss Bs mortgage and offered cover for the same amount  which 
decreased in line with her repayments. So, Im satisfied the terms of the policy were also 
suitable for Miss B.
Looking specifically at the sales process, I appreciate Miss Bs acceptance that she was a 
naive first-time buyer and was under the impression she had to take the policies out and felt 
compelled to do so with the one provider on offer. But given the documentation is clear that 
this wasnt the case, I agree with First Complete that Miss B was able to make the decision 
to proceed based on the recommendations made.  And that there was an onus on her to 
read and check all the relevant paperwork, including the demands and needs letter, and look 
at alternative products if shed so wished.
First Complete has said it wouldve explained to Miss B that it was only possible to offer 
critical illness cover as part of a life policy, and that she couldve shopped around for 
standalone critical illness policies if shed wanted to. Again, I dont know exactly what was 
discussed. And whether that included a conversation around the cost implications of getting 
standalone critical illness cover, as opposed to a life policy with critical illness cover included. But ultimately it was for Miss B to consider the recommendations made and decide 
how best to proceed.
I can understand how if Miss B thought the policies were a condition of her mortgage, she 
mightve not thought to question First Complete on its recommendations. But I can see from 
the demands and needs letter that Miss B didnt fully accept First Completes 
recommendation in terms of the income protection policy  agreeing a level of cover that 
better met her requirements. First Complete has said this showed Miss B was engaged in 
the sales process, having discussions and making choices about what best met her needs. I 
agree this adds weight to the point that its more than likely Miss B made the decision to 
proceed with the life and critical illness policy based on First Completes recommendation 
because she felt it was suitable for her at that time.
Having considered everything, I dont think First Complete did anything wrong. I dont think 
its recommendation that Miss B take out a life and critical illness policy was unsuitable, and I 
think she was able to make an informed decision as to whether to proceed with the sale. And 
so, I wont be asking First Complete to take any action here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman