DRN-3613189
The complaint
Mr D complains that Create and Prosper Financial Services Ltd (referred to as Create 
throughout this decision) deliberately acted against his wishes by recommending an 
investment fund that risked his capital. He also alleges that it suited Creates own financial 
interests to do so. 
Mr D is represented in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill refer to the 
representatives comments and actions as being Mr Ds. 
What happened
Mr D had a personal pension with a provider Ill refer to as A. Its transfer value was around 
£53,000.
Mr D took financial advice from Create around November 2018. According to notes made at 
the time, he was interested in exploring whether to switch his pension with A to another 
provider, as he felt it could get a bit more profit elsewhere. 
Create noted that it had discussed Mr Ds attitude to risk (ATR) and that hed completed a 
risk questionnaire. Mr D gave the following answers when asked questions about his 
investment experience:
Hed held a cash savings account; cash ISA or savings bond without first taking 
professional financial advice.
Hed invested in a pension where he could choose the funds invested in without first 
taking professional financial advice.
Hed held a stocks and shares ISA or a professionally managed investment fund after 
taking investment advice. 
He was comfortable investing and had a reasonable understanding of the potential 
risks and rewards. 
Hed be willing to risk a percentage of his income/capital to get a good return on his 
investment. 
He disagreed that compared to the average person he took lower financial risks.
In a risk profile report, Create described Mr Ds medium-high attitude to risk (6 on a scale of 
1-10) in the following way: A 'high  medium'  risk profile  shows  that your willingness  
and ability  to accept  investment  risk is slightly  above  average.  A portfolio  that 
matches  this risk profile  is likely  to experience  some  significant  rises  and falls in 
value.  So while  there  is good  potential  for returns  from  your investment  to match  or 
go above  the rate of inflation  (in other  words,  the rate at which  the prices  of goods  
and services  rise),  you also need  to accept  that your investment  is likely  to fall in 
value  from  time to time,  particularly  in the short  term.
Although Mr D apparently thought he was a 7/10 on the risk scale (as noted above, Creates 
assessment indicated 6/10), according to Creates notes hed said I dont want to risk losing 
all my money either. 
Create produced a personal recommendation report. In it, it noted the following about Mr D 
(amongst other information recorded):
He was retired and already in receipt of pension income (from both state and other 
pensions). He also earned rental income from a property. 
He didnt need access to his pension with A in the near future, so he wanted to 
explore other options for investing in the longer term. 
Under the heading Capacity for loss Create noted that whenever you invest you have to 
accept there is a risk to your capital. Any capacity for loss is based on what you are 
prepared to lose, or can afford to loseyou confirmed that this pension pot is not needed for 
your essential spending and that you could afford a medium loss on this portfolio.
According to a priorities questionnaire that Mr D completed, his highest priority was 
investment planning (pension). The protection of his income was rated 5, with 5 being 
deemed not to be a priority. (Create referred to another priorities questionnaire in its 
complaint response including six options. The results are similar to those mentioned here.) 
Create recommended that Mr D switch to a new plan with another provider Ill call R. It said 
its advice fee would be around £1,600 and that an annual management charge was due to 
R. Mr D opted not to have an ongoing advice service from Create.
R sent illustrations relating to the proposed plan to Create in late February 2019. These 
referred to Rs management charges (0.50%) and the advice fee of around £1,600 (around 
3% of the fund value) that was payable to Create. Elsewhere in the paperwork, R said under 
a heading about charges Well apply a charge for managing your plan. If you receive a 
service from a financial adviser, the adviser may agree an adviser charge payment in return 
for the services they provide. Well deduct the agreed adviser charge payment from your 
plan and we will then make a payment to your adviser. R said Mr D had the option to 
change his mind within 30 days of receiving the plan documents.
According to a chronology prepared by Create, it met Mr D in early April 2019 to complete a 
final review of its advice/recommendation. Mr D signed to say hed read and understood the 
full content of the risk profile report and that the information in the fact find was an accurate 
reflection of the initial meeting. He also confirmed that the recommendations made were 
based on the information set out in the fact find. Mr D accepted Creates advice and the new 
pension plan with R started a few weeks later. 
Mr D says it was not until he contacted R around March 2020 that he found out Create had 
moved his pension into a policy that did risk his capital and that it had lost money. He says 
he confronted Create about this. Mr D believes it acted against his explicit instructions. He  
subsequently decided to move his investment to another provider which Ill call C. 
Mr D later complained to Create about its advice. In its response sent in July 2021, it said it 
didnt agree the advice was unsuitable. It referred to extracts of its recommendations report 
and said that if Mr D had any doubts about the recommendation to switch he could have 
raised them with the adviser at the time  especially as there was a cooling off period if Mr D 
changed his mind. It also referred to an analytics report which showed a comparison 
between Mr Ds fund with R versus his fund with A. It said that if Mr D had followed its advice 
(and not moved his plan to another provider around a year or so after taking it out) his 
investment would be on track and the fund balance would be higher (notwithstanding market 
corrections due to Covid 19). 
Mr D wasnt happy with Creates response, so he complained to our Service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. Amongst his reasons for saying 
so the investigator said:Although Mr D had since said hed made it clear he wanted an investment with no 
risk to his capital, notes from the fact find recorded at the time said things like I dont 
want to risk losing all my money. 
The investigator took the view that Mr D would have had sufficient knowledge to be 
able to understand the meaning and outcome of the attitude to risk (ATR) 
questionnaire.  
Despite what Mr D had said since, none of the paperwork sent or agreed mentioned 
capital protection. And, in fact, the risk profile report made it clear that capital could 
be at risk. The investigator thought Mr D had ample time between the meetings and 
the plan taking effect to challenge things if he didnt think what was noted was 
correct. 
Although Mr D had apparently bought an annuity a year or so after the advice, given 
what hed said about not needing the income for a while, the investigator couldnt see 
how an annuity would have benefited him at the time of the advice. 
In summary, whilst the investigator thought it was slightly unusual for a pension switch to 
happen at Mr Ds age, given his apparent desire for growth, the agreed ATR and the longer 
term timeframe within which hed indicated hed be looking to take benefits, the investigator 
didnt think Create had done anything wrong. 
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators assessment and made a number of representations 
in response. Amongst his comments, Mr D said his complaint wasnt that the advice was 
unsuitable because there was no benefit to him transferring and because the fund he moved 
into didnt match his ATR. Instead, he said his complaint is and remains that Create 
deliberately acted against his wishes by recommending a fund that did risk his capital. He 
believes it suited Creates own financial interests to do so. He also argues that the findings 
of the risk assessment werent discussed with him. 
Mr D asked an Ombudsman to consider the matter afresh. Its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds provided extensive comments in support of his complaint and in response to our 
investigators assessment of it. I dont propose to address all of those comments individually. 
But I will address those that are relevant to the context within which Ive considered Mr Ds 
complaint, or to the findings Ive reached.
One such comment that Mr Ds made is that it is taken as a matter of trust that the financial 
consultant will listen to and act in line with the wishes of the client and not act in a manner 
that best suits the financial consultant. I agree with Mr D to the extent that before giving 
pension switching advice, an adviser would be expected to find out about their clients needs 
and objectives in order to ascertain whether they are reasonable or warranted. Thats to 
enable the adviser to provide suitable advice and, in turn, allow the client to make an 
informed decision. 
In any event, Mr Ds since clarified that his complaint is that Create specifically went against 
his wishes by recommending a fund that risked his capital. So, thats the main complaint Ive 
addressed within this decision. 
Did Create deliberately act against Mr Ds wishes by recommending a fund that put his 
capital at risk? In short, no, I dont think it did. Ill explain why. 
Apart from his recollection, Mr D hasnt provided any other evidence to show that he made it 
clear to Create he wasnt willing to risk his capital. Whereas, Ive seen fairly detailed records 
completed at the time of the advice which show a different position. And, on balance, I think 
theyre more persuasive in showing that Mr D didnt say he wasnt willing to risk his capital at 
all. 
For instance, during an initial fact-find meeting in November 2018 Mr D indicated he was 
looking to get a bit more profit than he was from his current pension plan. It seems that 
Mr Ds plan with A was already invested in a portfolio of investments at the time. 
If Mr D had clearly stated he wasnt willing to put his capital at risk at all and that was a key 
objective for him, it seems reasonable to assume that would have been recorded. But theres 
no such reference. In fact, theres a note within the fact-find that says Mr D didnt want to 
lose all of his money. I think that presents quite a different picture and suggests that Mr D 
was willing to take some risk if he was to achieve a higher profit overall. So, whilst I can see 
why hed want to safeguard against losing all of his investment, thats not the same as 
saying he didnt want to take any risk with it at all. 
That position is further supported by a priorities questionnaire that Mr D completed. In a 
nutshell, Mr D was asked to rank certain priorities in order of importance from 1-5 with 1 
being the most important. Mr D said that his investment planning (pension) was the most 
important priority for him, whereas the protection of his income was rated 5. In other words, I 
think Mr D indicated that preserving his capital wasnt uppermost in his mind. And as Mr D 
had also indicated he was looking to invest over the longer term (so may have felt that any 
immediate losses could therefore be recouped) the way hed answered that question didnt 
seem particularly surprising. I think it also implied that he accepted a level of risk in order to 
achieve greater growth.
On top of that, Create was aware that Mr Ds pension was already invested in a range of 
different funds. So, if Mr D had said he wasnt willing to risk his capital at all, I think it would 
likely have told him that he probably couldnt achieve his objective of generating a greater 
profit than his current investments did. In fact, if Mr D was concerned about taking any risk 
whatsoever, I would have expected Create to explain to him that his arrangement with A also 
carried an element of investment risk. And, if he wasnt prepared to accept any risk, then he 
would need to look for an alternative risk-free plan  but that was unlikely to see the growth 
he wanted. According to the fact find, Mr D had already discounted an annuity because he 
felt it wasnt right for him. 
It also seems likely that if Mr D wasnt willing to risk his capital at all, hed have answered the 
questions to the risk profile in a different way. And had that happened it might have given 
Create cause to challenge things further if it felt the answers were at odds with other 
information given. Yet Mr D said things like he had a reasonable understanding of risk and 
rewards and was willing to risk a percentage of his income/capital to get a good return on his 
investment. He also indicated that hed previously taken some financial decisions not all of 
which were as a result of having first sought financial advice. 
Those dont strike me as the type of answers that an investor who wasnt willing to risk any 
capital would typically give. But even if Mr D had decided he wasnt willing to take any risk in 
relation to this particular pension, Id expect that to be reflected in the evidence Ive seen. Its 
not. And Mr D later signed to say the information in the fact find was an accurate reflection of 
the initial meeting. He also confirmed that the recommendations made were based on the 
information set out in the fact find.
Taking all of these things together, Im not persuaded that Mr D did say he wasnt willing to 
take any risk at all. And if he thought Create had misunderstood his wishes, I think there was an opportunity for him to say so before the plan took effect a few weeks after he gave his 
acceptance. Again, theres no evidence he did so. On balance, I think Create did accurately 
capture Mr Ds wishes as they were presented at the time and that it gave its advice in light 
of those wishes.
Create didnt tell Mr D that his capital might be at risk
In addition to the description of a medium-high investor that Create gave to Mr D (which Ive 
referred to earlier), in its pensions switching report dated February 2019, Create said its 
recommendation was based on the level of risk you are prepared to accept. This was 
identified and agreed following completion of a risk profiling questionnaireWhilst a portfolio 
like this should rise and fall less than a higher-risk portfolio, the value of investments can 
always go down as well as up. 
Under a heading Capacity for loss Create said, whenever you invest, you have to accept 
that there is a risk to your capitalhaving agreed your attitude to investment risk, we 
discussed how this could impact on potential losses to your investment and you confirmed 
this is within an acceptable tolerance based on your capacity to suffer any losses.
Given all of these explanations, I dont agree with Mr D that Create didnt tell him his capital 
could be at risk. And, on top of that, as he had some prior investment experience, it seems 
likely to me that Mr D would have understood this was a possibility. 
Mr D also says Create didnt discuss the findings of the risk assessment with him  
especially the significance of a score of 6 on a scale of 1-10. I cant be sure to what extent 
the findings of the risk assessment were discussed. Although there are various notes within 
the evidence pointing to the fact that risk and Mr Ds ATR were discussed in some way. 
However, on balance, I think Mr D would have understood what a risk rating of 6 would have 
meant. I say that for a couple of different reasons.
First, as Ive said above, Mr D had some prior investment experience. And hed clearly made 
investment decisions without the need to seek professional advice. That in itself 
demonstrates a certain level of knowledge and experience. Second, Create included a 
specific description of a medium-high investor like Mr D in its report. That description was 
intended to show that a consumer with such a rating had a willingness  and ability  to 
accept  investment  risk that is slightly  above  average.  A portfolio  that matches  this 
risk profile  is likely  to experience  some  significant  rises  and falls in value.  Having  
thought  carefully  about  this, Im satisfied  that most  consumers,  even  those  with less 
investment  experience  than Mr D, would  understand  what  it meant.  But bearing  in 
mind  Mr Ds prior  experience, I think its likely hed have understood the description that 
Create gave him. 
Mr D says in signing to show his agreement with the risk assessment he was simply showing 
that the form was his. He disputes that it should have acted as confirmation for Create to do 
what it liked with his money. Again Ive thought very carefully about Mr Ds position. And had 
the declaration been written in the way that Mr D has suggested I might be more inclined to 
agree. But it wasnt. It says I confirm that I have read and understand the full content of this 
[risk profile] report. In addition to that, as Ive mentioned earlier, Mr D also signed to say the 
information in the fact find was an accurate reflection of what was discussed at the initial 
meeting and the recommendations made were based on that information. Given everything 
Ive said, I think Create did make it clear to Mr D that his capital could be at risk. 
Create acted in its own financial interests by recommending the plan it did
Mr D believes Create was motivated by its own financial interests when recommending that 
he transfer his pension to R. Again, having thought carefully about what Mr Ds said, Im not 
persuaded by his position. First, the evidence shows that Create made a recommendation intended to meet Mr Ds objectives (and Mr Ds indicated hes not complaining about the 
suitability of that recommendation itself). So, having clearly completed a fair amount of work, 
it follows that I think Create was entitled to charge a fee for it. 
According to Creates pension recommendation report, (which references the client 
agreement), its fee for advice and arranging the investment was 3% of the fund value. In Mr 
Ds case 3% worked out around £1,600. Paperwork that R sent also said that If you receive 
a service from a financial adviser, the adviser may agree an adviser charge payment in 
return for the services they provide. Well deduct the agreed adviser charge payment from 
your plan and we will then make a payment to your adviser. Contrary to what Mr D might 
also think, theres no evidence of commission having been paid. The fee that R mentions is 
the fee that Create had already mentioned to Mr D in its own report. And, even if Create had 
recommended that Mr D invest in different funds, its advice fee was likely to have been the 
same, given that its a set percentage of the fund value. Its also worth saying here that even 
if Create had ultimately told Mr D to leave things as they were, its also likely to have 
charged a fee for the work done. I dont think that would be unreasonable. 
In any event, based on the evidence Ive seen, theres nothing  beyond Mr Ds comments  
to indicate that Create acted in its own financial interests by making the recommendation 
that it did. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman