DRN-2265834
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society has written off his personal loan without 
telling him and has unfairly registered adverse information on his credit file.
What happened
Mr R says he is still making payments towards his loan, but Nationwide has unfairly written it 
off and passed it to another business I will call M for collection. Mr R says he would like to 
continue to repay the loan, but Nationwide has recorded adverse information on his credit 
file which he would like removed. He says he wasnt told that his loan was being passed to 
M and complains about how his complaint was handled.
Nationwide says Mr R didnt make agreed payments and it defaulted the loan. It says it 
correctly reported the account position to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) and is 
entitled to pass the loan to M for collection. Nationwide says it sent Mr R a number of letters 
about the account and missed payments including notices of arrears and default letters.
Mr R brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Nationwide was entitled in line with account terms and conditions to default an 
account where there were missed payments and report that position to the CRAs. And that 
Nationwide had written to Mr R on a number of occasions about the account. The 
investigator explained that complaint handling was not a regulated activity and so he couldnt 
look at that part of Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R doesnt accept that view and says he has been treated unfairly and didnt see the 
letters Nationwide sent him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Nationwide has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I realise Mr R will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at the loan account terms and conditions and Im satisfied they make clear that 
in the event of missed payments then an account may be defaulted, and adverse information 
reported to the CRAs. I find that is what took place here that Mr R missed four required loan 
repayments and Nationwide acted in line with the agreed account terms and conditions by 
registering a default on Mr Rs credit file. I appreciate that Mr R says he didnt receive the 
letters about the missed payments, but Im satisfied numerous letters were sent. And I also 
find it was Mr Rs responsibility to manage his account and ought to have known that there 
were a number of missed payments even if he didnt receive any, of what Im satisfied were 
correctly addressed, letters.
I appreciate Mr R says Nationwide didnt tell him it was passing his account to M. But I have 
seen a letter from Nationwide to Mr R in which it makes clear that the account is now being 
handled by M. Im satisfied that its up to Nationwide when exercising its commercial 
judgement to decide if it wishes to pass a debt to another business in this way and not 
something I can fairly interfere in.
Overall, Im satisfied that Nationwide hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly and also has a 
duty to accurately report the position of its customers accounts to the CRAs. The 
investigator has explained that we cant consider Nationwides handling of this complaint and 
I find it did send a number of letters to Mr R about the missed payments. For those reasons I 
cant fairly order Nationwide to remove any information from Mr Rs credit file or do anything 
further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman