DRN-2810954
The complaint
Miss B complains that Mortgage, Protection & Finance Ltd (MP&F) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2009 in connection with a mortgage.
What happened
Miss B took out a PPI policy in connection with her mortgage. She paid a monthly amount for 
the policy which offered accident, sickness and unemployment cover. She complains she 
was not told the PPI was an optional product; she was led to believe the mortgage would be 
rejected if she didnt buy PPI and if she cancelled, she thought she would have to pay back 
the mortgage money. Miss B cant recall how the policy was sold but she first complained to 
her lender, her insurer and her mortgage broker about the PPI. 
The companies she complained to said they did not sell the PPI. They said the PPI was sold 
by a broker who was authorised in his own right with MP&F. Miss B complained to MP&F, 
but it said it had no evidence to show it had sold PPI to Miss B, so it said it was not 
responsible for looking at the complaint.
Our adjudicator thought MP&F was responsible for the PPI sale and another adjudicator 
upheld the complaint against MP&F.
MP&F did not acknowledge receipt of either of our adjudicators views, so the matter was 
passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision in April 2021 where I explained why I thought MP&F was 
responsible for looking at this complaint, but I also explained why I thought the complaint 
should not be upheld. We sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties. None of the 
parties returned any new evidence or comments. So I see no reason to change the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Which Business Sold the PPI?
I considered all of the available evidence and arguments presented to me, to determine 
whether this service is able to consider whether this complaint should be against MP&F. So I 
looked specifically at whether MP&F sold the PPI and therefore, whether it is responsible for 
looking at the PPI mis-sale complaint for Miss B.
We contacted all the initial companies Miss B complained to  her insurer, her lender and 
the mortgage broker - but they had no trace of having sold her PPI. The mortgage broker 
said MP&F was responsible for selling the PPI. The named broker at MP&F named another 
company, Ill call it company B. He said company B was responsible for the sale, but our 
adjudicator discovered the broker was not authorised to sell PPI for company B at the time of 
this sale. The broker was only authorised to sell PPI for company B from 4 June 2009 to 28 
August 2009, and as this PPI sale happened in January 2009, it seems more likely that the 
broker was acting under his own authority with MP&F. So from the available information, it 
seems most likely that MP&F is responsible for looking at this PPI complaint.
Having decided who should look at the complaint, I went onto to consider the merits of the 
complaint.
The Merits of the PPI Complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Bs case.
Having looked at the available evidence, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I know 
this will be a disappointing result for Miss B, so I will explain why.
MP&F should have made Miss B aware she had a choice in buying the policy. She says she 
thought she had to have the PPI to get the mortgage and she thought that if she cancelled 
the policy, then she would have to pay back the whole mortgage.
However, Miss B didnt give any detail about what she was told that day during the sale. And 
neither MP&F nor Miss B gave us any paperwork from the time of sale  like the mortgage 
and PPI application forms. I dont think thats surprising given that the sale took place around 
12 years ago. But it does mean I have limited information about the sale, so I have to decide 
what I think is most likely to have happened, given the information I do have and the broader 
circumstances.
I think its more likely the optional nature would have been made clear to Miss B. And Miss B 
hasnt shown me anything that makes me think she was told she had to have PPI. So 
overall, I think its more likely MP&F made it clear to her she had a choice about the PPI, and 
she chose to buy it.
I also noted that after the sale, the insurer  who was not present at the sale - sent her a 
letter confirming she had bought PPI and telling her she could cancel the policy in 30 days 
without any cost to her. There was no suggestion that she would have to repay the 
mortgage. So Im not going to uphold the complaint for that reason.
I dont know if the sale was advised or non-advised with regard to suitability of the policy, but 
I may not have to make a decision on that because I think the policy probably was suitable 
for Miss B. I say this because the policy looks like it was affordable; it does not look like she 
was affected by the things not covered by the policy and its likely she was eligible to buy the 
policy. 
So I also looked at her financial circumstances at the time to see if the policy was still 
suitable for her. I noted she said she had enough savings and other insurance  but she 
didnt say how much she had in savings and she did not show us the insurance policy to see 
if it was covering the same events as the PPI. So I cant say her savings and other insurance 
made the policy less suitable for her.
I also noted that she most likely would get six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay from her employer if she was off sick. However, the policy could have paid the mortgage 
repayments alone for a maximum of 12 months on a successful claim  leaving her savings, her other insurance and employee benefits to cover other expenses. So I think the PPI was 
still suitable for her. 
She had also borrowed funds against a large and long-term financial commitment, which 
was secured on her home. So I think having the security that the mortgage repayments 
would be made if she was unable to work would have been important to her. 
I dont know what information she received about the PPI, but she was not affected by the 
things the policy didnt cover, so I dont think any more detailed information would have put 
her off from buying the policy.
I dont know what information she was given about the cost and benefits of the policy but, 
having decided she probably chose to have PPI, I think she probably wanted this type of 
cover. So I dont think any more detailed information about the cost and benefits would have 
put her off from buying the policy.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Miss B. Its always difficult to decide 
a complaint on such limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about what she said 
and about what I think most likely happened. And I dont think  on balance  I can fairly and 
reasonably uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, Im satisfied that Mortgage, Protection & Finance Ltd is 
responsible for looking at this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman