DRN-3004064
The complaint
Ms S complains that the loan she had from Advancis Limited (trading as Buddy Loans) was 
unaffordable to her.
What happened
Ms S took out a fixed sum loan with Buddy Loans on 23 May 2018. She borrowed £3,000 
and was due to repay £146.37 monthly for 36 months.
Ms S says she was struggling financially when she took out the loan with Buddy Loans and 
she says, if it had carried out better checks, it would have realised this. She says when she 
changed jobs in October 2019, she requested the payment date to be adjusted, but both her 
and her guarantor have received emails about late payments ever since. She adds that 
Buddy Loans was also adding late payment fees and she had to take additional credit to 
make the payments. Ms S says she resorted to replacing her bank card so that Buddy Loans 
couldnt take payments whenever it chose.
Buddy Loans says it asked Ms S for information about the purpose of the loan and her 
financial circumstances. It says it verified her income and checked her credit file and 
estimated her monthly expenses using government data. It says it was satisfied it carried out 
sufficient checks and that the loan was affordable to Ms S.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said that he wasnt 
satisfied that Buddy Loans carried out enough checks, given what it could already see about 
her financial circumstances. He found that, had it done so, it would have concluded there 
was a significant risk that Ms S was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the loan.
To put things right, our adjudicator recommended that Buddy Loans should refund any 
payments Ms S made above the principal (plus 8% statutory interest) or agree a suitable 
repayment plan for any remaining principal balance once all payments had been applied to 
it. He said it should also ensure that any associated negative information is removed from 
Ms Ss credit file.
Ms S responded to accept the adjudicators view and to advise the loan was now fully paid 
and closed.
Buddy Loans responded to say that it disagreed and would like the complaint reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Buddy Loans lent to Ms S. 
Its rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Buddy Loans needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.3.1G states that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of credit is likely 
to be greater and the borrower needs to make payments for an extended period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Ms Ss case, Ive considered the following:
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Ms Ss loan application to satisfy itself shed be able to sustainably repay the loan? oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Buddy Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
With regard to the first question, I can see Buddy Loans asked Ms S about her income and 
also completed a detailed credit check. Ive also listened to the call where it asked her for a 
breakdown of her other expenditure. These checks showed:
Ms S had income of £1,954;
She paid £300 per month on rent;
Her total other expenditure was £690 monthly;
She had monthly credit commitments of over £700.
But Im not satisfied that these checks went far enough given what they showed about 
Ms Ss financial circumstances and given Buddy Loans needed to ensure the repayments 
were sustainable for 36 months:
Based on the above, Ms Ss disposable income was around £240 per month from 
which shed have to commit to a further £146.37 repayment;
With the new loan, Ms S needed to commit around 45% of her declared income to 
credit repayments each month;
Her credit file showed ten defaulted accounts - the latest was in October 2017;
She had a short-term loan that had become delinquent in March 2018;
Ms S had nine other outstanding loans, of which five were for short-term credit;
She had taken out five of those loans in March and April 2018;
Ms S had a mail order account which was with a debt collection agency.
I accept Buddy Loans agreed Ms S would repay three existing loans with the new loan, but, 
based on the above, I consider its checks should have gone further. At this stage, I dont find 
it was sufficient to rely on Ms Ss declaration of her circumstances without any verification.
So I now need to consider what proportionate checks would have shown and Ive looked at 
Ms Ss bank statements from the time to assess what Buddy Loans is likely to have found if 
it had carried out reasonable checks:
Ms Ss monthly income was in line with the £1,954 shed declared;
Her rental payment appeared to be over £500;
She spent over £400 per month on food;
Ms Ss other regular payments totalled over £680, before loan repayments;
Excluding the loans Ms S said shed repay with Buddy Loanss money, there were 
further monthly repayments of almost £300;
Ms S took out another £300 short-term loan on 18 May 2018;
Three payments to debt collection agencies were included in the above figures;
Ms S was incurring bank charges every month.Therefore, I find Ms Ss actual disposable income was much less than the figure Buddy 
Loans used in its affordability calculations and she could not afford a further loan repayment 
each month.
So Im satisfied that Ms Ss bank statements and credit file showed she was already 
struggling to manage her money and that even if some of her outstanding debt was repaid 
with the loan, her monthly commitments still meant the repayments were likely to be 
unsustainable for three years.
In summary, taking all the available evidence into account, Im not satisfied Buddy Loans 
made a fair lending decision.
With regard to whether Buddy Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way, I 
acknowledge that Ms S says it was unfair to apply late payment fees as it did. Although I 
havent made a finding on this aspect of the complaint, the proposed redress for the 
unaffordable lending will also address the issue with the late payment fees.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Advancis Limited (trading as Buddy Loans) 
should:
Add up the total amount of money Ms S received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Ms S made should be deducted from this capital amount;
oIf this results in Ms S having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement*);
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Buddy Loans should attempt 
to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms S;
Remove any negative information recorded on Ms Ss credit file regarding the loan, 
up to this point.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to take off tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans must give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman