DRN-2920898
The complaint
Miss S complains that TSB Bank plc recorded incorrect information on her credit file which 
affected her ability to get a mortgage.
What happened
Miss S had been provided with a loan by TSB Bank. She reviewed her credit file as she was 
looking to apply for a mortgage and discovered an outstanding balance was incorrectly 
recorded.
Miss S complained to TSB Bank about the information recorded on her credit file.
TSB Bank explained that Miss S account had been passed to recoveries in October 2018 
and a default applied at that time. It confirmed there shouldnt have been an outstanding 
balance but noted that a balance was being reported to the credit reference agencies. In 
June 2021 it made a payment to clear the outstanding balance for the credit file to be 
updated. It said it had been monitoring the situation to ensure the error was rectified. 
Although it noted an error was made with the outstanding balance it said the default had 
been correctly applied in October 2018 and would remain on Miss S credit file for six years. 
TSB Bank apologised and paid Miss S £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the TSB Bank had done enough to resolve 
this complaint.
Miss S doesnt agree that she has been treated fairly. She provided further details about her 
circumstances prior to the default being recorded explaining that she had to repay her ex-
husbands debts while trying to support her family. She says it isnt fair she is punished by 
having a default for six years because of this and that it means she cant get car finance or a 
mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint was raised about incorrect information being recorded on Miss S credit file. 
While the investigation has been ongoing Miss S has provided further information about her 
circumstances at the time of the loan and how these resulted in her financial difficulties and 
the loan being defaulted. I appreciate her openness about her circumstances and am sorry 
to hear of the distressing experience she has had. 
However, as the original complaint was about an incorrect outstanding balance being 
recorded with the credit reference agencies and this is the complaint TSB Bank investigated, 
my decision relates only to this issue. I understand Miss S has raised a separate complaint 
about the sale of the laon and default which will be subject to a separate investigation.
Having considered the incorrect information recorded on Miss S credit file, I have come to 
the same conclusion reached by our investigator for these reasons:
TSB Bank accepted that a mistake had been made by recording an outstanding 
balance on Miss S credit file. When a mistake has been made, we expect the 
consumer to be put back in the position they would have been had the mistake not 
been made and, where appropriate, to pay compensation. In this case, TSB Bank 
repaid the outstanding balance amount recorded to the loan account and has said 
the account has been amended to show as being settled. This puts Miss S back in 
the position she would have been had the mistake not been made.
Miss S says that she couldnt access other finance because of the issue. While I note 
her comments I also note that the default recorded on her credit file. This will be seen 
by other credit providers and is likely to have an impact on lending decisions. 
Therefore, I cannot say the issue that is subject to this complaint, that is the 
outstanding balance being incorrectly recorded, was the only reason why Miss S 
struggled to get other credit. I have considered the amount of compensation paid in 
light of this and I think that the £75 paid is reasonable given the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the incorrect information being recorded.
Overall, I think TSB Bank took reasonable actions to address the issue of the 
incorrect data and to compensate Miss S for the upset this caused. Therefore, in 
regard to this issue, I do not require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman