DRN-4261013
Complaint
Mr H has complained about a loan that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (trading as Asset 
Link Capital (No.9)) is now responsible for. He says that the loan was unaffordable and 
should never have been provided to him.
While Asset Link Capital (No.9) is now responsible for this loan, it didnt originally provide it. 
Mr Hs loan was part of a book of loans that were originally provided by Future Finance 
before it subsequently entered into administration. As a result Future Finance sold its legal 
and beneficial title in the loans to Asset Link Capital (No.9). For ease of reference, I will refer 
to Future Finance in this decision. 
Background
Future Finance provided Mr H with a loan for £6,000.00 in October 2019. The loan was to 
cover living expenses while Mr H completed a full-time study course.
Mr Hs loan had a variable APR of 22.8% and a term of 97-months. This meant that the total 
amount to be repaid of £13,174.53, which included interest, fees and charges of £7,174.53 
(made up of interest of £6,664.53 and a £510 origination charge) was due to be repaid in an 
initial 13 monthly instalments of £75 followed by 84 instalments of £145.25. This was to 
reflect the fact that Mr H would make lower repayments for the period that he was studying.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr H and Future Finance had told us. And he 
thought that Future Finance hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. So he 
didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint be upheld. 
Mr H disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.
Future Finance needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Future Finance needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr H could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Future Finance says it agreed to Mr Hs application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out. And in its view, all of this information showed  
Mr H could afford to make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr H has said he should never have been provided with this loan 
because of his existing financial position.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr H and Future Finance have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Mr Hs loan wasnt a typical arrangement, as there was a 
clear understanding that he wasnt immediately able to make the full monthly repayments as 
he was going to be studying. However, as a result of this Mr H was only required to make 
reduced payments for the duration of his studies. It was only when these were completed a 
couple of months had passed to allow him to find employment would he have to make the 
increased repayments. And this was due to happen from December 2020 onwards. 
Regarding Mr Hs situation at the time of the application, the information provided does 
suggest Mr H was asked to provide some details regarding his income and expenditure and 
Future Finance didnt just rely on what it was told as it carried out a credit search too. The 
credit search that Future Finance carried out did indicate that Mr H had some existing debt. 
And the credit check that Mr H has provided suggests that he may have taken some payday 
loans previously.
 
But Mr Hs existing debt appears to have been reasonably maintained. And there isnt 
anything in the information provided that suggests to me that Mr H wouldnt have been able 
to repay the low monthly in-study payments. I say this particularly given the number of 
discretionary transactions on the statements Mr H has provided to use from the time too. 
Im also mindful that Mr H was already committed to his course at the time that he took this 
loan. Given he was always going to incur any living expenses that this loan was earmarked 
to cover, it seems to me what Mr H has said about his use of payday loans indicated that 
that is the type of lender he would have turned to in the event Future Finance had turned 
down his application. 
I think this is important given the fact that Mr H wouldnt start fully repaying this loan until his 
salary had improved after completing his course, which wouldnt have been the case with 
payday type finance. This type of finance would also have been much more expensive too. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that Future Finances decision to provide the loan in the 
first instance wasnt unreasonable.
As a result of the type of loan and Mr Hs eventual need to make increased payments, 
Future Finance should probably have checked with Mr H to see that he had secured 
employment and how much he was earning before December 2020. I think it would have 
been particularly important for Future Finance to have done this given the general economic 
situation at the time. However, I cant see any evidence of Future Finance doing this.
Nonetheless, I am mindful that Mr H was in employment in December 2020. And he was in a 
job that paid him a salary close to the estimate that had been calculated at the time of his 
application. So, in my view, Future Finance would have started taking payments in the way it did even if it had got in contact with Mr H in December 2020. He had completed his studies 
and was earning more, which was what both parties had anticipated would be the case, what 
had budgeted for and the monthly repayments had been calculated for.
In any event, if Mr H is having difficulty making the increased payment, Asset Link Capital 
(No.9) has already agreed to reconsider the repayment schedule Future Finance agreed. 
Given the arrangement and the type of loan here, I dont think that is unreasonable. And I 
would encourage Mr H to get in touch in the event that he is having difficulty making 
payments, particularly as he was in arrears when Future Finance provided its file on his 
complaint. 
Overall and bearing in mind everything, I dont think that Future Finance did anything wrong 
when deciding to lend to Mr H - it carried out proportionate checks (although I accept that    
Mr H disputes this) and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested this loan 
would help Mr H with living expenses while he studied for a qualification that would increase 
his earning potential. 
I accept that it probably should have done more to establish that Mr Hs income had 
increased before December 2020, but as it in any event did do so (broadly in line with the 
estimates from the time of the application) I dont think doing more would have seen it 
deciding against collecting higher payments as per the terms of Mr Hs loan agreement. 
So overall I dont think that Future Finance acted Mr H unfairly or unreasonably in its dealing 
with Mr H. And Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing 
for Mr H. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel 
his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman