DRN-1315829
 
The complaint
Mr G makes a number of complaints about Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office 
Financial Services(Post Office) following its decision to close his account.
What happened
Mr G says he logged into his Post Office account In December 2018 and could see that the 
balance in one of his accounts had been transferred but with no details of where. He says he 
called Post Office and it told him the money had been moved into a linked account when it 
had not. Mr G says Post Office ought to have been able to tell him where his money was and 
what had happened to it. He says he asked Post Office to reinstate his account and pay the 
money back into it and not the linked account. Mr G says he tried on a number of occasions 
to speak to Post Office about what took place without success and would like it to pay an 
appropriate level of compensation. He says he has been caused significant inconvenience 
by what took place but accepts he didn't read Post Office's e-mail in January 2018 about the 
account. Mr G says in any event that e-mail told him the money would be transferred after 
March 2018 but was not until September 2018 and Post Office ought to have followed that e-
mail up by writing to him as it could tell if an e-mail had been opened.
Post Office says it acted in line with the account terms and conditions by closing the account 
as the balance was under £5. It says it told Mr G in January 2018 that it intended to close the 
account and transfer the money into a charitable account. Post Office says it made no 
difference to Mr G when it transferred the money and it was always his money. It says it's 
not viable to check if customers read their e-mails but accepts it gave Mr G incorrect 
information when he called in December 2018. It also says it corrected the position and paid 
Mr G's money into his linked account and there was no real need for him to keep calling it.
Post Office says it has paid Mr G £25 for the mistake and for his call costs.
Mr G brought his complaint to us and says the compensation doesn't go far enough.Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and thought overall Post Office had dealt fairly with it. 
The investigator didn't think it our role to decide how a business communicates with its 
customers. And if Post Office ought to have sent a follow up letter to Mr G or tell him where 
his money was. The investigator thought Post Office had acted in line with the account terms 
and conditions and didn't think Mr G had suffered any financial loss or that it mattered when 
the money was placed in the charitable account. The investigator thought Post Office had 
acted fairly by paying £25 compensation for the delay in responding ,and for Mr G's  call 
costs.
Mr G doesn't accept that view and says Post Office should have been able to tell him what 
had happened when he called and that the online information could easily have just had an 
entry explaining where his money had gone. He says he was clear that the account should 
have been reinstated and that the compensation isn't enough.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Post Office has dealt fairly with this complaint and I don't require it to pay 
any further compensation. I realise  Mr G will be disappointed by my decision.
I'm satisfied that the problem here was caused by Mr G not reading the e-mail Post Office 
sent him in January 2018. I think that e-mail clearly sets out why Post Office intended to take 
the action it did and where Mr G's money was being transferred to . I appreciate that Mr G 
says that Post Office could have checked if the e-mail had been read, as it later did and 
could have followed the e-mail up with a letter. I'm sorry to disagree with Mr G but I'm 
satisfied that its up to Post Office when exercising its commercial judgement to make such 
decisions and not something I can fairly interfere in. I accept that it may be, as Post Office 
says, impractical to write to all of its customers in this way.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr G would have agreed to 
when the accounts were opened and I can see that Post Office is entitled to close an 
account in these circumstances. So I don't think Post Office made a mistake or acted unfairly 
by closing Mr G's account in  circumstances where there was a balance under £5 and where 
the account hadn't been used in some time. I don't think it matters that the account wasn't 
closed in April 2018 but in September 2018. And don't think that decision had any impact on 
Mr G as he didn't notice the money had been transferred until December 2018.
I accept that Post Office ought to have been able to have told Mr G what had happened and 
why when he called it in December 2018. I also accept that it would have been helpful  for 
Mr G to have seen where his money had gone when he logged into his account that month. 
But I'm satisfied that shortly after that call Mr G's money was returned to him and I don't 
think he was caused any significant impact or distress by not knowing where a balance of 
under £5 was when he had not used the account for some considerable time.
I appreciate that Mr G says the money should have been returned to the account in which it 
was transferred out of. I have explained why I don't think Post Office made a mistake by 
closing the account and can see the money was paid into Mr G's linked account in any 
event.
I accept that Mr G made calls to Post Office about what had happened and that he was 
given incorrect information when he first called. But I'm satisfied that Post Office has paid 
what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for that. I think Mr G chose to 
continue to complain to Post Office. And I have said that I don't think the incorrect 
information about the location of this money or any of the matters Mr G complains about 
would have had a significant impact on him that would justify a higher amount of 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman