DRN-3444631
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) has handled 
their claim on their home insurance policy poorly and has unfairly turned down part of the 
claim.
References to Admiral include the agents it used in connection with Mr H and Mrs Hs claim.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs Hs home suffered significant damage when their neighbours car crashed 
through the front of their house. They claimed on their home insurance policy and Admiral 
accepted the claim.
Mr H and Mrs H raised a number of issues with Admiral about how it handled their claim. To 
summarise briefly, Mr H and Mrs H said:
Admirals immediate response on the day of the accident was inadequate and it 
didnt assist them in making their home safe.
Admiral didnt offer them alternative accommodation.
Admiral failed to clear up their home after the accident, which they said Admiral had 
said it would do.
Admirals agents communications were poor and there were numerous delays 
throughout the claim process. 
They were unhappy with the quality of Admirals first structural surveyors report. 
They didnt think it covered all the damage to their home caused by the accident. And 
they thought a report prepared by another of Admirals contractors, a property 
restoration company, more accurately identified the damage (although they thought 
this report was missing some photos).
Admiral upheld part of Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint. It accepted Mr H and Mrs Hs had 
concerns about the first surveyors report and so arranged for a second inspection to be 
carried out by another surveyor. Admiral also accepted thered been significant delays in 
dealing with Mr H and Mrs Hs claim and its agents communications with them were below 
the standard it expected. It apologised to Mr H and Mrs H for this and paid them £450 in 
compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused them.
But Admiral didnt uphold Mr H and Mrs Hs other complaint points. It said it followed its 
correct process on the day of the accident, as well as telling Mr H and Mrs H that if they 
incurred any costs in making their home secure on the day, these would be covered by their 
claim. 
Admiral also said it had offered Mr H and Mrs H alternative accommodation but theyd turned 
it down. And Admiral said it hadnt told Mr H and Mrs H it would clear up their home in the 
immediate aftermath of the accident  but rather that clearance fees would be included in the 
estimate it got for the repair works, with clearance being carried out once the repairs on     
Mr H and Mrs Hs home were completed .
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr H and Mrs H brought their complaint to us. Shortly after they 
did this, Admirals second structural engineer carried out an inspection. Mr H and Mrs H 
dont think his report correctly identifies the extent of the damage to their home caused by 
the accident. And, after Admiral carried out repairs to their home, Mr H and Mrs H are 
unhappy with the appearance of the repaired pebbledash at the front of their home.
The investigator who looked at Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint didnt think Admiral needed to do 
anything more. He thought the compensation Admiral had paid Mr H and Mrs H of £450 was 
reasonable given the considerable distress, upset and worry, and significant inconvenience 
Admirals delays and its poor communications had caused them. 
Broadly, our investigator thought Admirals immediate response on the day of the accident 
was what he would have expected, given the terms and conditions of Mr H and Mrs Hs 
policy and the circumstances in which the claim arose. Our investigator also thought, on the 
evidence he had, that Admiral had offered Mr H and Mrs H alternative accommodation.
 
Having looked in detail at each of the three reports Admiral had commissioned into the 
damage to Mr H and Mrs Hs home, our investigator also thought Admiral had ultimately 
made the correct decision about what was covered (and what wasnt) in Mr H and Mrs Hs 
claim. 
Finally, our investigator was satisfied the option Admiral chose to repair the pebbledash at 
the front of Mr H and Mrs Hs home was the most appropriate one.
Mr H and Mrs H disagree. Among other things, they dispute the findings of the surveyors 
reports and highlight inconsistencies between them. They also say cracks continued to 
appear in their home after the surveyors visited. And they remain unhappy with the 
appearance of the pebbledash at the front of their home following the repairs.
So Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why by 
looking at their complaint points separately.
Admirals response on the day
Shortly after being notified by Mr H and Mrs H of the accident, Admiral appointed loss 
adjusters, as it was entitled to do under the terms and conditions of Mr H and Mrs Hs policy. 
Admiral gave the loss adjusters full emergency instructions. It also advised Mr H and Mrs H, 
in the meantime, to contact the police about getting their home boarded up and made 
secure. I understand the loss adjusters said they werent able to attend for 24 to 48 hours, so 
Mr H and Mrs H got third party tradesmen to secure their home. 
I dont think the timeframe the loss adjusters gave to attend Mr H and Mrs Hs home was 
unreasonable. But I also think, in the emergency situation Mr H and Mrs H were facing, this 
was too long for them to wait for their home to be secured  so Mr H and Mrs H responded 
pragmatically by getting third-party tradesmen to do this work. Admiral did, however, tell     
Mr H and Mrs H at the time that these tradesmens costs would be covered by their claim. Given what Ive described above, I dont think Admiral could fairly and reasonably have done 
more on the day of the accident.
Alternative accommodation
Mr H and Mrs Hs policy entitled them to alternative accommodation while their home was 
being repaired. Mr H and Mrs H say Admiral didnt offer them this. Admiral says it did. It says 
when Mr H and Mrs H phoned up to notify it of the accident, it offered to pay them for hotel 
accommodation for that night if they wanted it. And Admiral says alternative accommodation 
was discussed with Mr H and Mrs H again (by its loss adjuster) a few days later, but they 
turned it down. 
On the evidence Ive seen, I think its likely Admiral offered Mr H and Mrs H alternative 
accommodation and so complied with the terms and conditions of their policy.
Clearing up
Mr H and Mrs H say Admiral told them it would carry out a clear-up of their home following 
the accident but didnt. Admiral says it said clearance fees would be included in an estimate 
it was getting from another of its agents for repairs on Mr H and Mrs Hs home  and not that 
it would clear-up their home before the repairs were done.
Ive seen photographs of Mr H and Mrs Hs home immediately after the accident. It is a 
devastating scene. So I can understand why clearing-up after it was important to them. 
Obviously, I wasnt there when the conversations between Mr H and Mrs H and Admiral 
about this issue took place. But on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely than not 
Admiral agreed to clear the site only once the repairs were completed.
Distress and inconvenience
Admiral accepts there were unacceptable delays in dealing with Mr H and Mrs Hs claim. 
And it also accepts its suppliers and contractors didnt communicate with Mr H and Mrs H as 
well as it expected and gave them a level of service below its expectations. 
I think Admiral is right to acknowledge its failings here. Its delays and poor communication 
clearly did cause Mr H and Mrs H significant distress and inconvenience over a long time. So 
I think the compensation of £450 that Admiral has paid Mr H and Mrs H for the significant 
distress and inconvenience it caused them is fair and reasonable.
The scope of the damage caused by the accident
Mr H and Mrs H say Admiral hasnt assessed the damage caused to their home by the 
accident fairly. In particular, they say there is accident-related damage which should be 
included as part of their claim but which Admiral says wasnt connected to the accident.
Admiral says some of the damage Mr H and Mrs H are claiming for is normal wear and tear 
and not related to the accident.
In looking at all the evidence I have on this issue, my starting point is that the onus is on    
Mr H and Mrs H to show the accident most likely caused the damage for which theyre 
claiming. This is a basic principle that underlies their contract of insurance with Admiral.
Ive looked at the reports of the three different agents appointed by Admiral to assess         
Mr H and Mrs Hs claim. Both Mr H and Mrs H and Admiral are very familiar with them, so I wont describe what these reports say in great detail here. But I do need to mention each of 
them briefly.
The first report was by a structural surveyor. Among other things, he concluded the impact 
from the crash had demolished the ground floor bay window below the ground floor ceiling 
level and had badly damaged the block support to the left-hand end of the bressummer 
beam that spanned the window. But he saw no evidence that the bressummer beam had 
undergone any lateral or vertical movement.  He also said the external cracking to the render 
above the kitchen was consistent with slight deflection of the lintel below or lack of support 
when the UPVC windows were installed. He notes Mr H and Mrs H are adamant this 
damage occurred at the time of impact or shortly after it but says this seems unlikely from a 
technical perspective. 
Because Mr H and Mrs H disputed the findings of this report, Admiral appointed a second 
structural surveyor to carry out a second inspection. However, before this took place, a 
representative from a property restoration company appointed by Admiral came to              
Mr H and Mrs Hs home to assess their damaged contents. The representative took 
numerous photos throughout Mr H and Mrs Hs home  and not just of the damaged 
contents but also of cracking and other structural issues in many of its rooms. It seems he 
attributed all of these faults to the impact of the crash.
But, from what Ive seen, Admiral appointed the property restoration company to assess the 
damage to Mr H and Mrs Hs damaged contents only. He wasnt appointed to assess the 
structural damage to their home. And from what Admiral says, he wasnt a structural 
surveyor. I think Mr H and Mrs H may have placed some confidence in this report  but I 
think it gave them false hope. It seems to me the representative of the property restoration 
company wasnt qualified to assess the damage to the structure of Mr H and Mrs Hs home 
and acted outside the scope of his brief in doing so. That means I can attach little weight to 
his findings in his report on the structural aspects of Mr H and Mrs Hs claim.
Following this, a second structural surveyor carried out a second inspection of the damage 
to Mr H and Mrs Hs home. This surveyor begins his report by saying it is evident that there 
is some disagreement over the extent and scope of the damage. He divides his report into 
two parts  the first dealing with damage which is evidently the result of the impact and the 
second dealing with damage which the insured is adamant relates to the impact incident but 
from a structural engineering perspective, is impossible to link. He concludes his report 
saying:
In summary, the insured has a valid claim which impacts the lounge and the first floor 
master bedroom above. The remaining damage is normal wear and tear on the property and 
some as built defects within the fabric of the building.
Normal wear and tear and building defects arent things that are covered by                         
Mr H and Mrs Hs home insurance policy. 
Mr H and Mrs H strongly disagree with the second structural surveyors findings about what 
he calls damage inconsistent with the impact. Theyve given us various reasons why they 
think he is wrong on various aspects of their claim. 
But Mr H and Mrs H arent structural surveyors. And they havent given us any expert 
evidence to back up their views  especially bearing in mind, as I said at the outset, that its 
for them to show the damage for which theyre claiming was caused by the car crash. I cant 
attach as much weight to their opinions on these matters as I can to those of Admirals 
qualified experts. In the absence of any expert evidence to the contrary, I find the second structural surveyors 
report persuasive in its assessment of both the accident-related and the non-accident related 
damage at Mr H and Mrs Hs home. And Ive seen nothing to make me think Admiral has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in relying on it to accept parts of Mr H and Mrs Hs claim and 
to turn down others, which (as Ive said) arent covered by their policy.
Pebbledash repairs
Mr H and Mrs H say the new pebbledash above their bay window, which formed part of 
Admirals repairs, looks significantly different to the rest of the pebbledash at the front of their 
home.
In repairing Mr H and Mrs Hs home, Admiral needed to put them back in the position they 
were in just before the claim. Ideally, Mr H and Mrs H shouldve been put back in exactly the 
same position. But that isnt always possible. And, where thats the case, a reasonable 
settlement is likely to be one that puts Mr H and Mrs H in a broadly similar position. And 
Admirals liability under Mr H and Mrs Hs policy was only to repair what had been damaged. 
Admirals second surveyor said the most discreet way of matching the repairs with the 
existing pebbledash was to perform localised repairs to it. I also understand Admiral washed 
the older sections of pebbledash around the localised repairs to try and blend new and old. I 
dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of Admiral to take this approach to the repair. 
In concluding this decision, Id like to say Mr H and Mrs H have made detailed comments 
about various aspects of their complaint, not all of which I have referred to here. But Ive 
carefully considered all of their comments and evidence and they dont change my 
conclusions on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman