DRN-2826021
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited wont deal with her home insurance claim for
flood/storm damage to her let flat. The policy is in Mr Ns name as the freeholder with Mrs M
named as having an interest in the policy. He has consented to the complaint. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs M suffered flooding in the basement of her let flat. This was dirty water
so the tenant moved out. She made a claim to Ageas, who appointed contractors to
investigate. At first it was thought that the property was flooded because of a failure in the
sump pump or the piping but investigations revealed that not to be the case. Ageas
appointed loss adjusters who came out to do a site inspection. They reported back that
Mrs M was going to get a report from her own surveyor, although that wasnt her
understanding. Shed advised that the neighbours had a party wall surveyor who could
advise if the problem was coming through from next door. Mrs M said the surveyor had told
her there was no leak coming from next door. She was advised to get confirmation of this
and she duly did so by forwarding a text from the surveyor in question.
Ageas told Mrs M that she needed to prove that she had a claim which could be covered by
it and for that she needed to provide her own evidence as to the cause of the flood. It also
advised that she wasnt covered for loss of rent as she wasnt the named policyholder. It has
now said to us that it made an error in that respect and that Mrs M is covered for loss of rent
although only if the claim itself is covered.
After referral to this service our investigator said the complaint should be upheld as Mrs M
has shown she had a likely claim for flood and/or storm damage. He said Ageas should
cover Mrs M claim and pay loss of rent from the time the claim arose until any works are
completed even if this is beyond the policy limit. It should also pay £500 compensation.
Ageas said that it would pay the £500 compensation as it shouldnt have misled Mrs M
concerning the loss of rent cover. It was prepared to carry out further investigations but didnt
believe it should pay loss of rent (if it accepts the damage claim) beyond the policy limit. It
further said it shouldnt be liable for interest as Mrs M caused the delay by failing to obtain a
surveyors report when it had been agreed that she would do so.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that whilst I agreed that Mrs M had shown she had 
a likely claim for storm/flood damage, Ageas still needs to consider the actual claim, where 
the water is coming from and what might be needed to repair the damage. I said that as I 
thought Ageas should have carried out the further investigations, rather than insisting on 
Mrs M getting a surveyors report, it should pay her loss of rent up until the date of any final 
decision I issue.  I felt that a payment of £500 compensation was reasonable.
Mrs M had further comments to make on my provisional findings:
She says she wasnt told that the flooding might be because of a failure in the sump 
pump or the piping. As a result she believes that Ageas had completed all its 
investigations at the site by April 2020 so the claim should have been settled in her 
favour by then.
She feels she was treated very badly by Ageas. Give that, she is concerned that Ageas 
has been asked to reconsider rather than settle the claim. She feels that, given how long 
it might now take for the repairs to be carried out, Ageas should be required to pay loss 
of rent until the repairs are completed and the new tenant moves in.
With the exception of my proposed award of compensation, Ageas disagrees with my 
provisional findings. It said:
Mrs M is required under the policy to provide assistance and evidence concerning the 
cause and value of any claim. To date, no evidence as to the cause of the damage has 
been provided to either Ageas or the loss adjusters. Mrs M had said she was having her 
own survey carried out, but has only provided a copy of a text from the neighbours 
surveyors saying the leak wasnt from next door.
Its suppliers who carried out the initial assessment reported back that it was an escape 
of water issue. It carried out investigations under the trace and access cover in the 
policy, but it ceased investigations as there was no evidence the leak was from a water 
tank, apparatus, pipe or fixed heating system in the home.
It did not think there was a flood  Mrs M had confirmed there had been no flooding in 
the area for 25 years. It has checked the weather records for the time of the claim and 
there is no record of flooding or adverse weather in the area at the time of the incident.
It doesnt consider it is liable to pay any costs, including electricity and loss of rent, 
unless and until evidence has been provided to it that an insured event has occurred.
It agreed to carry out further investigations as to the cause of the water ingress. This is a 
goodwill gesture outside the policy terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
In making a claim, the onus is on Mrs M to show that an insured event most likely caused
the damage. But having shown that, it doesnt then fall for her to show where the water came
from. In this case Ageas investigations in its report of April 2020 have so far shown that the
sump pump isnt faulty nor is the pipework. But it has said that the likely cause of the
basement flooding was an increase in the water table, possibly exacerbated by the nearby
brook becoming swollen due to recent torrential rainfall during two named storms. Flood is
generally considered to be a build-up of water from an external source. I understand that the
water was up to 30cm deep for a few weeks after the event but that since then theres been 
no flood event reported, I think it fair to say that the claim should be considered under the 
flood and/or storm peril in the policy.
To date, because it was expecting Mrs M to gather evidence for it, Ageas hasnt considered
the actual claim, where the water is coming from, and what it may need to do to repair the
damage. Mrs M has shown there is likely to be cover for this but Im aware that basement
flooding can be complicated to repair and that other terms in the policy might apply. Mrs Mshould be able to discuss and agree with Ageas on the repairs or, if necessary, challenge its
view. So I dont think its reasonable, at this time to say Ageas must settle the damage claim.
Rather I think the right remedy in this case is for Ageas to reconsider the claim, subject to
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Having said that Im aware that Mrs M has been left with a property with flood and dirty water
damage for over a year. Bearing in mind Ageas recent indication to us that it is now
prepared to carry out further investigations, it should have done that back in April 2020.
Although the loss adjuster then said it was waiting for Mrs Ms surveyors report, I dont think,
bearing in mind her emails immediately after the loss adjusters visit that she had agreed to
that. Rather she thought the next door neighbours surveyor would be reporting on whether
there was a leak coming from that side. She duly obtained evidence about this in May 2020,
but Ageas insisted that Mrs M must produce her own report into the damage, which I think
was unreasonable. It still maintained that position right up until its response to the
investigators view in March 2021.
If Ageas had carried out further investigations when it should have I think this claim would
have been settled one way or the other by mid-2020. Because of this I think that Ageas
should pay Mrs Ms loss of rent, from the date her tenant moved out up until the date of this
decision, together with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year for that period until
payment. If Ageas ultimately accepts liability for the damage, any further loss of rent can be
considered as part of the claim.
Mrs M has also incurred electricity costs in respect of the driers initially installed and Ageas
similarly should pay that cost again with interest from when Mrs M paid that bill until it
reimburses her. Thats because in my experience an insurer in this situation would normally
have acted to dry the basement whilst carrying out investigations into what was needed for
repair and considering that in light of the policy cover.
As for compensation, as Ive noted it was for Ageas to make further investigations at the
time, and I think its unfair to criticise Mrs M for any delay. Ageas also persisted in saying
Mrs M wasnt entitled to loss of rent under the policy (regardless of the damage claim
outcome) and has only recently accepted that it was wrong in that respect. Our investigator
proposed a payment of £500, which Ageas agreed to. I think thats reasonable.
In respect of Mrs Ms comments, the initial report from the contractors who carried out the 
first inspection said that the likely cause of the flooding was the failure of the sump pump. 
They arranged to have the water pumped out and carried out a CCTV survey of the drains 
and found no damage. It might well be that the results of this werent communicated to 
Mrs M.
I appreciate that in asking Ageas to reconsider rather than settle the claim, it might decide to 
decline it. But as Ive said where flooding, particularly of a basement is concerned, it can be 
complicated to repair. I dont think that Ageas finished its investigations. After the drain 
survey, its loss adjusters visited the property, but decided that as Mrs M had told them she 
was having a survey cried out, they would wait for the result of that survey. And, as Ive said, 
I dont think Mrs M had said she was having her own survey carried out. So, as the claim still 
remains to be investigated properly I think Ageas should reconsider, rather than settle it.
In respect of what Ageas has said, firstly I dont think it has been established that this claim 
has resulted from an escape of water. Its contractors may have said that that is the peril 
under which the claim should be made, but having established that there is no leak in the 
pipes or the drains, the fact remains that there was a flood. Regardless of weather 
conditions outside, there was standing water of 30 cm deep in Mrs Ms property. Mrs M has 
shown that there is damage caused by a flood. The cause of damage has been established (flood), but the cause of the flood has not  that is why Ageas should carry out further 
investigations, and should have done back in May 2020. 
To take Ageas point about storm, its rainfall records show the claim was made on 
10 February 2020  it was not  it was made on 16 February 2020. And the news reports 
show that Storm Dennis had affected the area the weekend of the claim. And Storm Ciara 
had hit the area a week earlier. The property is near a watercourse and it seems likely that 
the flooding of the property was affected by these two storms. However further investigations 
will have to take place to establish the actual cause.
As for payment of rent and electricity costs I remain persuaded by my provisional findings, 
Ageas should pay both of these up until the date of this decision. Whilst it may now be 
saying that its offer to carry out further investigations was a goodwill gesture, the fact 
remains that it didnt offer to do that until after our investigator sent out his view. So it should 
pay interest on those costs as well. However I cant make it pay any further such costs 
because, as yet, the claim is not accepted.  
Putting things right
I require Ageas to reconsider Mrs M and Mr Ns claim subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
I also require Ageas to pay to Mrs M:
an amount equivalent to the rent she lost from the date her tenant moved out to date
together with simple interest* at 8% per year on each rental payment from each due date  
until it reimburses her.
an amount to reimburse her electricity costs for using the driers together with simple
interest* at 8% per year from the date she paid those costs until it reimburses her.
£500 compensation.
*Ageas is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any interest paid.
Should Mrs M request it, Ageas should provide her with a certificate showing how much tax
has been taken off so that, if appropriate, she can reclaim it.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to act in accordance with what 
Ive said under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2021. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman