DRN-3902291
The complaint
Mrs O complains about a quality of a car which she purchased using her debit card supplied 
by TSB Bank plc (TSB).
Mrs O has been represented. For clarity, Ive only referred to Mrs O throughout this decision.
What happened
On 30 March 2021, Mrs O purchased a car from a supplier Ill refer to as D for around 
£5,995. A cash deposit of £1,250 was paid and the balance of £4,745 was paid by Mrs Os 
debit card which was issued by TSB.
On 12 April 2021, Mrs O had some work carried out to the car at a third party garage, which 
included the glow plugs being replaced. The cost of the repairs was £280. Mrs O told D 
about the issue and D asked why Mrs O didnt return the car to it in the first place, so it could 
carry out the repairs. D said it would pay for half the cost of repairs as a gesture of goodwill. 
It also later said Mrs O could return the car to it and it would refund the full sales price, less 
the £140 it had already paid Mrs O for the repairs she had carried out. D said the car would 
need to be returned to it by 16 April 2021 or its offer would be revoked.
In July 2021, Mrs O completed an online transaction dispute form and submitted this to TSB. 
Following this being completed, TSB asked Mrs O for some further information and Mrs O 
responded to this request. TSB reviewed the information provided and asked Mrs O for 
some clarity about the £1,000 in costs she had claimed. Mrs O responded and said it cost 
her £550 to repair the car, she wanted £200 for distress because the car had ruined her 
clothes on the first day after she purchased it and £250 was for loss of earnings, as her 
husband had taken time off work to resolve the complaint. TSB raised a chargeback the 
following day.
In September 2021, TSB contacted Mrs O and let her know that the chargeback had been 
declined by VISA. It said D offered a full refund less the amount it had already paid to Mrs O, 
if she returned the car to it by 16 April 2021. But the car wasnt returned to it. It said 
chargeback only covered the amount paid on the debit card and it couldnt be used to 
recover any expenses, losses or distress caused. It told Mrs O to contact D if she had any 
further queries.
Mrs O responded and said she wasnt offered a full refund because D had said it would 
deduct what it had already paid towards the repair. TSB said D had already paid £140 
towards repairs that Mrs O had carried out at a third party garage. And it said since then, 
TBS had agreed to pay the full sales price Mrs O paid less the £140 it had already paid. It 
said because Mrs D didnt return the car, it had no further chargeback rights.
Mrs O said she got the car repaired at a third party garage because D didnt respond for 
three days and she needed the car repaired urgently. TSB said it had no right to challenge 
the dispute, as D was unaware of the faults with the car until after Mrs O had the car 
repaired at another garage. It suggested that Mrs O take third party advice if she felt her 
rights under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 hadnt been met. Mrs O said D was aware of the 
faults because the dashboard of the car said, vehicle service soon. She said D ignored this 
information when the car was supplied to Mrs O. TSB said it had operated within the rules of 
the VISA chargeback scheme and so, it could not dispute the matter any further.
In response to this, Mrs O raised a complaint and asked TSB why it didnt tell her sooner that 
it couldnt help her further. TSB said it raised a chargeback in an attempt to assist Mrs O, as 
she had said she had tried to return the car unsuccessfully. 
TSB also issued its response to Mrs Os complaint and said because both Mrs O and D had 
provided proof that D had confirmed it would refund the full sales price of the car, less the 
amount it had already paid to her if the car was returned, it had no further chargeback rights. 
But it said Mrs O had the faults fixed at another garage and so, D had offered to refund Mrs 
O a partial amount as a gesture of goodwill. TSB said it couldnt raise a chargeback for any 
additional losses Mrs O had suffered.
Unhappy with this, Mrs O referred her complaint to this service. She said she was unhappy 
that D hadnt offered to refund the full amount she paid for the car, in addition to costs she 
had incurred for making repairs to the car. She said TSB refused to help and it should have 
told her it couldnt help her from the start, rather than months later.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but thought TSB had handled Mrs Os chargeback 
claim fairly. She said the scheme didnt allow for Mrs O to claim back the additional costs 
she had incurred. Instead, she could only claim back the cost of the car, which D had 
already offered to her. She also said she didnt think that TSB had caused any delays when 
considering Mrs Os complaint.
Mrs O disagreed. She said the investigator didnt consider that TSB accepted her claim and 
claimed against Ds bank instead of telling Mrs O she could pursue D directly. She said she 
was waiting for a decision for a long time and didnt pursue any other routes as she was 
blocked from this. She said she thought TSB should compensate her for providing her with 
incorrect information and her husband had lost income of £500 whilst dealing with the 
complaint.
Our investigator said she didnt think TSB had caused any delays and because Mrs Os 
husband wasnt TSBs customer in this specific case, she couldnt consider Mrs Os 
husbands loss of income.
Mrs O disagreed. She said her husband was working on her behalf to pursue the complaint. 
Mrs O said TSB were sure that she would receive £500 back for the parts she had sourced 
and £500 because of the distress caused to her. She said TSB owed her this money 
because it had acted unprofessionally, she lost a lot of time waiting for the claim and it 
should have told her to pursue the claim by other means. Since then, Mrs O has said she 
isnt pursuing TSB for compensation and just wants to know whether TSB was professional, 
whether it provided her with good advice and whether it could have done more for her. 
Mrs O disagreed. And so, the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 November 2022 in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mrs O has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
What I need to decide in this case is whether TSB correctly raised a chargeback, whether it 
caused any delays when raising the chargeback and whether it acted unfairly in any other 
way. If I think it has, Ill need to decide whats fair, if anything, to put things right.
Chargeback
A card issuer can attempt a chargeback in certain circumstances when a cardholder has a 
dispute with a merchant  for example where goods never arrived or where goods are faulty and not as described. Before a chargeback can be initiated by a card issuer, like TSB, its 
generally expected that the cardholder has attempted to resolve matters with the merchant 
first.
Chargebacks arent decided on the merits of the dispute between the cardholder and 
merchant, but rather theyre decided on the relevant card schemes rules. Chargeback isnt a 
legal right and theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this 
way. In this case, the guidelines are set by VISA and TSB have no power to change them.
When there is a dispute about defective goods, generally the rules of the VISA chargeback 
scheme require the cardholder to return the goods to the merchant. Having said this, the 
rules do allow for circumstances where the cardholder has attempted to return the goods to 
the merchant, but has been unable to.
When Mrs O submitted the dispute form, she explained why the car was faulty and she said 
she had attempted to return the car, but she was unsuccessful. She provided evidence to 
show that D had made an offer to refund the sales price less the amount it had already paid 
to her. And Mrs O also provided her response to the offer to say she declined it, as it wasnt 
the full amount she had paid. D defended the chargeback attempt made by TSB because 
Mrs O hadnt returned the car to it.
Having thought about this carefully, Im not satisfied that Mrs O was unable to return the car 
to D. It seems Mrs O was able to return the car as theres no suggestion she wasnt able to 
drive it at the time. The rules of the chargeback scheme required Mrs O to return or attempt 
to return the car to receive a refund. But she didnt do this as she didnt accept Ds offer.
Ive also reviewed the sales document for the purchase of the car. Our investigator said the 
car cost £4,745. But this was incorrect. The sales document confirms the car cost £5,995. 
Mrs O made a deposit payment of £1,250 in cash and £4,745 was the amount paid on Mrs 
Os debit card issued by TSB. This distinction is important because the rules of the 
chargeback scheme only require D to pay Mrs O a total of £4,745. This is the amount Mrs O 
paid on her debit card.
In this case, D had already made an offer to refund the full sales price, less the amount it 
had already paid to Mrs O for the repairs as a gesture of goodwill. So, Ds offer meant it 
would be repaying Mrs O more than the amount she had paid on her debit card for the 
purchase of the car, if she returned it. This is more than D was required to do under the 
chargeback scheme.
Having considered this, at the point TSB raised a chargeback, it didnt know what the full 
sales price of the car was and it was told Mrs O had attempted to return the car, but she had 
been unable to return it. So I dont think TSB incorrectly raised a chargeback or that it acted 
unfairly when it did, as it didnt know whether Ds offer was more or less than the amount 
Mrs O had paid on her card.
Overall, Ive reviewed the actions of TSB when it raised the chargeback and the 
representment documents sent to TSB by D. Having done so, Im satisfied the chargeback 
was raised correctly by TSB and I dont think it acted unreasonably when it didnt challenge 
the representment from D. So I dont think it needs to do anything further here.
Delays
Ive reviewed all the information provided and dont think TSB caused or contributed to any 
delays. I say this because it raised a chargeback for Mrs O a couple of days after she 
submitted a dispute form and let Mrs O know D had 35 days to respond to the chargeback 
request. When TSB was advised by VISA that the chargeback attempt had been 
unsuccessful, it let Mrs O know without delay. So I dont think it caused any delays in the 
processing of the chargeback.
Did TSB act unfairly in any other way?I also acknowledge that Mrs O has said that because TSB didnt tell her about her rights to 
pursue her complaint by alternative means outside the chargeback scheme, she had lost a 
considerable amount of time and she couldnt pursue her claim against D by other means.
However, Mrs O approached TSB and raised a dispute form online three months after D 
made the offer to take the car back. And because Mrs O made the payment on a debit card, 
and Mrs Os dispute concerned goods which she said were faulty, the only way TSB would 
have been able to assist her was by potentially raising a chargeback claim  which it did. It 
wouldnt be down to TSB to advise Mrs O how to pursue her claim outside the chargeback 
scheme. It would be down to Mrs O to explore other ways in how to pursue her claim. In light 
of this, I dont think TSB has acted unfairly in any other way.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
TSB didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mrs O responded. To summarise, she said a third party organisation  who Ill refer to as P 
- provided incorrect advice about the chargeback from the start. Mrs O said she provided this 
information to TSB, who accepted it and raised the chargeback. She said TSB raised the 
chargeback claim but it should have told her the claim wouldnt be accepted. She asked 
whether TSB should have helped her more with the chargeback claim whilst she was in ill 
health. Following this, Mrs O said she simply wanted the ombudsman to provide a yes or 
no answer to whether TSB could have provided her with better advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to depart from my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Ive acknowledged that Mrs O has raised a number of different points in response to my 
provisional decision and I appreciate Mrs O feels strongly about her complaint. However Ive 
concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. The rules of this service 
allow me to do this.
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs O has mentioned the advice provided to her by 
P. However, I can only consider the complaint points Mrs O has raised about TSB, rather 
than P, as TSB is the respondent business for this complaint. And so, I wont comment on 
the advice Mrs O says she was provided by P. 
In relation to Mrs Os comment that TSB knew the chargeback claim wouldnt be accepted, 
my provisional decision explained that I didnt think TSB incorrectly raised the chargeback or 
that it acted unfairly when it did raise the chargeback. Mrs O has provided me with no further 
supporting information to persuade me otherwise and so, my decision remains unchanged 
on this point.
My provisional decision also confirmed that TSB didnt need to provide Mrs O with any 
advice about how to pursue her claim against D or any other party. Mrs O made the 
purchase using her VISA debit card and so, TSB was limited to the actions it could take to 
help Mrs O with her dispute. TSB wasnt required take any further action other than raising 
the chargeback claim and given the circumstances of Mrs Os case, it also didnt need to 
provide Mrs O with any advice about how to pursue her claim outside of the chargeback 
scheme. Overall, as no new supporting information has been provided for me to consider following my 
provisional decision, it follows that there is no reason for me to reach any different 
conclusion than set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman