DRN-3704582
The complaint
Miss N complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), sent her a statement of 
fees for an incorrect account number and sort code.
What happened
Halifax sent Miss N an annual statement of fees for a sole current account in March 2021. 
Miss N thought at first that it was for her joint current account and complained that Halifax 
had used an incorrect account number and sort code.
Halifax looked into the matter and confirmed that the account number and sort code were in 
fact correct and belonged to a current account in Miss Ns name only, which she had opened 
a year earlier through internet banking.
Miss N had been locked out from the Halifax internet banking service previously, and she 
had also complained about that. Miss N still did not recognise the account and without 
internet access to her bank account to check for herself, she remained unconvinced. So, she 
forwarded her complaint to us. 
Miss Ns complaint was considered by one of this services investigators. He explained that 
Miss Ns complaint about being locked out from the Halifax internet banking service had 
been already dealt with by an ombudsman at this service and so it is not something we can 
look into again. 
The investigator got a copy of Halifaxs account opening record showing Miss N had opened 
the account online on 19 March 2020. He noted Miss N had not been locked out from the 
Halifax internet banking service until July 2020. So, he thought Halifax had not done 
something wrong and he did not uphold this complaint.
As the investigator did not think her complaint should be upheld and Miss N did not agree, 
the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is 
more than likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
Having done all of that, I have reached the same conclusions as those reached by our 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
In this case, Miss N does not recognise a current account which Halifaxs records show she 
had taken out in her name only. The investigator got a copy of account opening record 
showing Miss N had opened the account online on 19 March 2020, before she was locked 
out from the Halifax internet banking service.
I have noted the account was a current account and so I expected it to come with either a 
debit card or a cashpoint card. I also expected Halifax to have sent confirmation of the 
account opening by post. So, I put this to Halifax.
Halifax has confirmed that a debit card was issued with the account on 20 March 2020 and 
that its records show it received at Miss Ns address. A PIN number was then sent. Halifaxs 
records show that the card was used at an ATM machine and an incorrect PIN number was 
entered three times. This then blocked the card. Halifax also confirmed an account welcome 
pack would have been sent. Finally, Halifax confirmed that there have not been any 
transactions on the account and although the account is inactive, it is still required to send 
Miss N a statement of fees each year.
Altogether, I find it more likely than not that Miss N did  intentionally or otherwise  open 
this account in her name only. And given the wider problems she has faced accessing her 
accounts, I think its likely she does not remember doing so. I cannot fairly say Halifax has 
done something wrong or has treated Miss N unreasonably. For these reasons, I wont be 
upholding Miss Ns complaint.
 
I am sure my findings will be disappointing to Miss N, and they are not meant to disregard or 
ignore her clear frustration, but I hope they are able to offer Miss N some reassurance. If 
Miss N wants to close the account, she can do so by calling Halifaxs customer service or 
visiting a branch. Alternatively, Halifax has agreed Miss N can let us know in reply to my 
decision and that we can pass on her instruction on her behalf.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman