DRN-2864691
The complaint
Mr B complains about the suitability of the advice he was given by Wine Lewis Hemingway 
Ltd (Wine Lewis Hemingway) to transfer his occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits to 
a personal pension policy (PPP).
In particular, he has said that the advice fell short of the regulatory requirements and that he 
wasnt given a written recommendation or any information to analyse. Mr B has also said 
that he should have been offered other alternatives, rather than focussing solely on the 
transfer, and that he should ultimately have been advised not to proceed with the transfer.
What happened
Mr B took voluntary redundancy from his employment in July 2014. His OPS benefits were 
available from 2015, but he continued to live off his redundancy funds until, in 2018, Mr B 
wanted to know what lump sum and income he could expect from his deferred OPS. Mr B 
was provided with figures for his pension at that time and was also made aware that the 
pension had a cash equivalent transfer value of £707,880.62. 
 
When he received the figures, Mr B spoke to an adviser who suggested the alternative of 
transferring the pension.  He told Mr B that he would pass his details to another adviser and 
so, in October 2018, Mr B met with Wine Lewis Hemingway to discuss a pension report 
which analysed the viability of a transfer. Wine Lewis Hemingway said a transfer to a 
personal pension would require an investment return of 18.3% per annum to match the 
existing scheme benefits. But as it believed that Mr B understood what hed be giving up, 
and on the understanding that the income couldnt be replaced by way of a transfer, it said it 
would go ahead with the transfer  for a fee of £6,000.
The new plan was set up on 26 October 2018 and the funds were placed into a cash fund 
from November 2018. But Mr B said he didnt hear from the original adviser regarding the 
investment of his funds, so he engaged another adviser who subsequently questioned the 
suitability of the original advice to transfer. So, in March 2019 Mr B complained to Wine 
Lewis Hemingway. He said the advice hed been given to transfer his OPS benefits had 
been unsuitable  and he made the following points in support of that position:
The pension report he was provided with didnt give a definitive recommendation to 
switch. It presumed he was aware of the benefits hed be giving up and wasnt 
thorough enough to put him in an informed position.
Wine Lewis Hemingway didnt provide an alternative solution to the transfer.
The necessary paperwork for transferring was available at the first (and only) 
meeting that took place. No investment strategy had been discussed and it seemed 
as though the application was rushed because the transfer quotation expired at the 
end of November 2018.
Advice should have been given to remain with the OPS.
The fees that were being taken from the fund, while it remained in cash, werent 
explained.
Wine Lewis Hemingway didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it had made it clear that the 
transfer wasnt viable if Mr B wanted to take income from the plan at the same level as the 
OPS  to the extent that it had said to Mr B that it wouldnt process the transfer if he was at 
any point considering replacing the income provided by his OPS. This was a repeated theme 
of interactions between Mr B and Wine Lewis Hemingway. It said that Mr B confirmed that 
he didnt need regular income from the plan. Mr B had said that he had enough assets to 
support his standard of living, which hed said was low. And he understood that if he 
needed to supplement this, he could take ad hoc payments from the PPP as required.
Wine Lewis Hemingway also confirmed that it had made Mr B aware of the advantages and 
disadvantages of transferring, had disclosed its costs and confirmed that, following the 
transfer into cash funds, further investment advice would be required from Mr Bs financial 
adviser.  It said that the most important factor in the transfer  in fact according to Wine 
Lewis Hemingway, the only reason he could consider transferring - for Mr B was his ability to 
control the fund to provide for his family in the event of his death, which he couldnt do with 
the OPS.  
In particular, Wine Lewis Hemingway said that Mr B had a range of health conditions which 
might lead to his premature death. 
 
It also said that Mr B had been assessed as having an attitude to risk of seven out of ten, 
where one was the lowest risk and ten was the highest. It said that this meant that he had 
the highest medium risk.
It said that Mr B had a reputation with his previous employer of being a fastidious and 
meticulous analyst, and that he had himself said in an email to Wine Lewis Hemingway that 
I am one of those that tries to understand things as fully as possible  at work they wrongly 
thought I was a perfectionist.
He had also said in the same email that, I do know that in a transaction like this I have to 
rely on specialist advice. Just dont like paying for it. 
Mr B had confirmed that he wanted the transfer to proceed, and Wine Lewis Hemingway 
said that it would begin the process, but that it could be stopped at any time if Mr B decided 
to do so. It would process the transfer and the funds would be placed in cash, for the original 
adviser to then decide on a subsequent investment strategy.
It noted that Mr B then asked for further information in an email at the end of October 2019, 
to which Wine Lewis Hemingway responded and then Mr B re-confirmed that he was happy 
to proceed.
Wine Lewis Hemingway concluded that Mr B had been satisfied with the advice given, and 
that the driving force behind the transfer was his state of health, which had led to 
conversations about the lump sum death benefits payable before and after age 75 from the 
PPP. It said that Mr Bs only concern was the cost of the advice, which it now believed was 
the crux of the matter.
Mr B wasnt happy with this outcome, so he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. She said the complaint should be upheld, making the 
following points: 
Mr B had been a member of his OPS for 36 years, so it was the main component of 
his retirement provision and meant security of income was likely to be important to 
him.The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) states that a firm should adopt the 
default position that an OPS transfer is unsuitable. So she thought Wine Lewis 
Hemingway needed to demonstrate clear reasons for why the transfer was in Mr Bs 
best interest.
The rate of return needed to match the OPS benefits was in excess of the returns 
Mr B was likely to achieve, and no illustrations were provided to demonstrate a 
projection of the likely growth on the personal pension. 
Mr B suggested, within his risk profile questionnaire, that he could only afford a small 
loss from his pension and anything more would affect his standard of living.  He said 
hed need to access his benefits within one year  so the fund would only have a 
short time to grow initially. 
The risk required to potentially match the OPS benefits was significantly higher than 
Mr Bs attitude to risk. So the investigator didnt think Mr B would have agreed to 
transfer on that basis. 
Whilst it was accepted that flexibility of withdrawals and death benefits were 
important features for Mr B, it was unlikely these would have been a priority over the 
receipt of greater income.
Mr B still hadnt made the purchases hed suggested he wanted to make, such as a 
new kitchen and a trip overseas. His funds remained in cash which supported the 
view that he didnt need to transfer his pension to free up cash for the purchases.
Mr B was retired at the time of the advice and wasnt in a position to take on the risk 
involved in matching the OPS benefits. The limited investment horizon available, 
along with the initial and ongoing fees Mr B paid meant it was unlikely hed recover 
his previous (OPS) level of income.
The investigator concluded that Wine Lewis Hemingway should have advised Mr B to 
retain his benefits in his OPS and that it should therefore undertake a calculation to 
determine the size of any loss hed suffered on transferring  and compensate him 
accordingly.
Wine Lewis Hemingway didnt agree. It said the following in summary:
Mr B had initiated the transfer, having initially discussed it with his own adviser.
It consistently told Mr B that his OPS income couldnt be matched by transferring, so 
the recommendation to transfer was based on the assumption that income wasnt an 
issue and no comparison could be provided. 
The reason for transferring was twofold. Mr B was concerned his wife would only 
receive 50% of his OPS pension if he died as opposed to the whole of a PPP fund, 
and he didnt want to draw the OPS (taxable) income  preferring to take the tax free 
cash and ad hoc payments from the PPP as and when necessary.
Mr B also wanted to be able access cash lump sums in case he needed specialist 
medical help in the future.
Mr Bs state of health was the main factor in his decision to transfer  not his income. 
Mr B didnt seek advice about his options, he knew what they were and just wanted 
to transfer as cheaply as possible. This was confirmed when he used a firm that 
didnt impose advice charges to invest the funds, which he manages himself. 
Mr B told Wine Lewis Hemingway that he didnt need the income his OPS would 
provide, and he thought he could live off the tax free cash from the personal pension 
 without touching the residual funds.
Security of income wasnt important to Mr B  the important factor was the security of 
the lump sum death benefits so that he could provide for his family in the future.Mr Bs poor health was the best reason for him to transfer. On the balance of 
probabilities, he was unlikely to live a long life and it was more appropriate for him to 
provide a fund for his family in the event of his death.
It had informed Mr B that, on an income basis, he would almost certainly be 
disadvantaged by removing his benefits from the scheme. Both he and Mrs B had 
signed statements attesting to their understanding of this risk.
Wine Lewis Hemingway emphatically denied that the purpose of the transfer was to 
fund a new kitchen and a holiday abroad. Mr B was in any case well aware that he 
could receive a tax free lump sum from the scheme which would amply cover a new 
kitchen and holiday.
It also said that an illustration was provided to Mr B, along with other relevant 
documentation.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view. She made the following additional 
points:
She thought Wine Lewis Hemingway said it had treated Mr B as an insistent client  
but there was no evidence to show that he had been treated this way. Indeed, Mr B 
had been described as a perfect candidate to transfer his pension. 
Shed considered whether Mr B would have gone ahead with the transfer regardless, 
but couldnt say for certain that he would have, if hed been advised against it by 
Wine Lewis Hemingway.
It was Wine Lewis Hemingways responsibility to ensure it gathered all the necessary 
information and gave advice in Mr Bs best interest. She thought that if Wine Lewis 
Hemingway had said it wasnt in Mr Bs best interest to transfer then its likely he 
would make a different decision. 
She hadnt seen anything to suggest Mr B sought advice because of poor health and 
thought his health was being well managed by medication. She didnt agree that 
Mr Bs health was the primary reason for transferring his OPS benefits. 
As no resolution could be found the complaint was passed to me to review.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I concluded that Mr B would have facilitated the transfer 
regardless of whether Wine Lewis Hemingway recommended it or even if it had declined to 
carry out the transfer. But I did think that Wine Lewis Hemingway should have ensured 
Mr Bs funds were invested after the transfer instead of remaining in cash. So I said it should 
carry out a calculation to compensate him for any financial loss arising from the lack of 
investment. I made the following summarised points in support of my findings, although this 
decision should be read in conjunction with the full text  and findings - of that provisional 
decision, which form part of this final decision:
The COBS rules say that when advising a retail client about an OPS transfer it 
should assume the transfer wont be suitable unless it can clearly demonstrate that 
its in the clients best interest.
I didnt believe Wine Lewis Hemingway had acted entirely appropriately during the 
transfer. Thats because it didnt know what investments Mr B would be using after 
the transfer so its not clear how it assessed the transfer and conducted its analysis 
without knowing this information. And I dont think it provided a sufficiently detailed 
recommendation within the two page suitability report it issued to him. Alternatively, Wine Lewis Hemingway could have categorised Mr B as an insistent 
client, but it didnt do this either. However, these failings wouldnt automatically mean 
the complaint should be upheld. 
On a like for like income basis a PPP would have been required to achieve growth of 
18.3% to match the OPS benefits  which was unlikely to be achieved especially 
within the level of risk Mr B was prepared to take. Wine Lewis Hemingway did 
confirm that it wouldnt transact the transfer if Mr B was seeking to replace or better 
the income from the scheme.
But income wasnt the main consideration here and I thought the main driver for the 
transfer was the provision of enhanced benefits for Mr Bs beneficiaries, particularly 
Mrs B. 
Wine Lewis Hemingways fact find noted several health conditions, including quite 
significant heart surgery. It also set out other aspects of Mr Bs health in its complaint 
response which Mr B said it had only recently become aware of  but of course Mr B 
would have been aware of the additional issues which might result in shortened life 
expectancy. This would have been a concern for Mr B and meant that the death 
benefits from his pension would have become of greater importance.
In an email exchange between Wine Lewis Hemingway and Mr B on 
26 October 2018 Mr B seemed to demonstrate his understanding of the proposal 
including the advantages and disadvantages  and he sought confirmation of matters 
on which he remained unclear. But there was little doubt that Mr B confirmed an 
understanding that following the transfer he was likely to be worse off financially (in 
terms of income) but his beneficiaries would receive enhanced death benefits. This 
would seem to confirm that he viewed the enhanced death benefits as the main 
reason for transferring. He would of course have been the most aware of the 
implications of any health issues from which he was suffering.
Mr B had talked about the lack of discussion relating to alternatives. But I didnt think 
there were any alternatives that werent discussed  or at least noted with the TVAS 
document. It seemed to be a choice to transfer or not. With regards to the alternative 
proposed by Mr B of providing a lump sum benefit by means of a life insurance plan, 
given Mr Bs medical history and health at the time, its likely such a plan would have 
been prohibitively expensive or even declined.
The ability to fund the new kitchen or holiday that was mentioned as a need could 
have been achieved by the tax free cash from either the scheme pension or the PPP 
- or available savings.
The choice Mr B had was to either retain his benefits and enjoy a higher guaranteed 
income, but lower dependants benefits, or transfer and draw his income flexibly with 
any fund value remaining to be paid in its entirety to his beneficiaries on his death. I 
thought that Mr B had decided the transfer was the better option for him and his 
family. 
Although there were shortcomings in Wine Lewis Hemingways advice and there was 
a possible counter argument to my conclusion, I thought the evidence pointed to the 
fact that death benefits for his beneficiaries were the defining consideration here and 
that Mr B would have transferred his OPS benefits regardless. I thought the transfer 
satisfied Mr Bs and his familys primary concerns.
However, I hadnt seen sufficient communication between Wine Lewis Hemingway 
and Mr Bs other adviser to ensure the investment of Mr Bs funds took place as soon 
as possible after the transfer. So I thought Wine Lewis Hemingway should 
compensate Mr B for the period that his funds remained uninvested. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B didnt agree with my provisional decision and he made the following points in reply:He was surprised with my provisional decision especially considering the original 
assessment took the opposite view  and he was advised it had also been checked 
by another colleague. In addition, I had also accepted that Wine Lewis Hemingway 
had acted inappropriately.
Although Wine Lewis Hemingway said it wouldnt transact the transfer on the basis of 
replacement income  that was actually a primary consideration for him. His annual 
income at the time, as recorded in Wine Lewis Hemingways fact find, was under 
£5,000  so it was clear he needed income.
He said that Wine Lewis Hemingway had never contacted his doctor regarding his 
health issues or asked him about his health at all. And he didnt think the pain he was 
suffering from when they were discussing the transfer was taken into account when 
assessing if he was in a fit state to be able to make significant decisions at that time.
Although he had undergone heart surgery there was no medical evidence to suggest 
that would significantly affect his life expectancy. He said the annual checks hed 
received since the surgery had all been good.  
Hed yet to consider specialist medical help which would suggest his condition wasnt 
too severe. 
No formal review of his risk profile was conducted during the process. This included 
the risk of moving from a guaranteed OPS into an investment backed plan as well as 
the risk of his funds falling after the transfer.
The focus of the meetings he had with Wine Lewis Hemingway had always been the 
lump sum benefits that would be received on his death. He did question this area of 
discussion after the meeting but was told he was the perfect candidate to transfer.
His experience in financial services wasnt relevant in respect of his decision 
because it had been in an administrative/customer service capacity. His own 
experience of the OPS was purely signing up to the scheme and receiving annual 
updates on the scheme finances  with no further advice ever being given.  
He explained the perceived reluctance on his part to pay fees as simply negotiating 
the lowest fees he could obtain. He said that typical fees for transfers of this size 
should be three to five times higher, so he thought that Wine Lewis Hemingway saw 
his own situation as relatively straightforward and the chance to earn its fee without 
too much effort. He felt this explained why Wine Lewis Hemingway had acted 
inappropriately and had already decided the outcome of its recommendation before 
meeting him.
He didnt think Wine Lewis Hemingway carried out its duty of care. There were no 
alternatives discussed, no verification of his medical situation, and time pressures 
imposed because of the possibility that the transfer value might fall. Overall, he 
thought he was significantly let down and left in a vulnerable position.
He said hed suffered a great deal of stress and upset which had affected him 
socially and financially as well as impacting his health.
He had kept his funds invested until my provisional decision so had been unable to 
take advantage of a market upturn as well as having an alternative investment 
recommendation withdrawn because of his ongoing complaint.
Wine Lewis Hemingway also made further submissions particularly in respect of my 
provisional direction that it should compensate Mr B for any investment loss hed suffered as 
a result of his funds remaining in cash.
It was agreed at the outset that Mr Bs financial adviser (and friend) would provide 
investment advice at the earliest opportunity after the completion of the transfer.It was agreed that the funds would remain in cash until the servicing of Mr Bs plan 
was transferred to the other adviser.
There had been some earlier discussions between Mr B and his adviser  and a risk 
profile exercise had been completed - but nothing was to be finalised until the funds 
were transferred. Wine Lewis Hemingway believed that any delays in investing funds 
post transfer were attributed to Mr B not responding to or liaising with his adviser.
Wine Lewis Hemingways own advice  had it been requested at the time of the 
transfer  would have been to remain in cash because of the prevailing market 
conditions.
It provided copies of emails between all the parties involved post transfer, which it 
believed confirmed its view of the arrangements regarding investment of the funds.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of the family bereavement that Mr B suffered shortly after my provisional 
decision. And Im also mindful of the delay in issuing this decision following the responses. 
This is a finely balanced case and I wanted to review the entire file again before making my 
final decision, but I also apologise to both parties for the time taken to reach this position.
But having reviewed matters and thought very carefully about the responses Ive received I 
see no reason to change the outcome I reached in my provisional decision.
As I said previously Wine Lewis Hemingway didnt conduct this transfer in the way I would 
have expected it to. I think there were some failings. I dont think it actually set out a 
recommendation for Mr B to follow and its suitability report simply summarised the main 
highlights of the TVAS, concluding that the fund would need an investment return of 18.3% 
to match the scheme benefits at age 60. This means that on an income basis, you will 
almost certainly be financially disadvantaged by removing your benefits from the scheme.
It also said: In summary, the [OPS] has guaranteed benefits, whilst the new scheme has no 
guarantees.  It is highly likely that you will not meet the income benefits provided by the 
[OPS] through effecting a transfer.  This needs to be fully understood by you before you 
agree to transfer. 
So Wine Lewis Hemingway did make it clear that if it simply compared whether Mr B would 
be worse off financially, in other words the income he would receive from the OPS against 
the income from the new plan  then the transfer wasnt in his best interests, but I dont think 
it was clear enough in its actual recommendation around this issue. And Mr B has now told 
us that his income at the time was under £5,000 per annum  so he says income was 
important to him and he needed Wine Lewis Hemingway, as part of its duty of care, to 
provide a recommendation which was in his best interest  which he says he would then 
have followed regardless. 
But at the time of the advice Mr B had suggested that income in retirement wasnt a major 
consideration and that he had other resources to draw upon. This was also the advisers 
understanding and it was put to Mr B in an email dated 27 October 2018 when the adviser 
said, you do not require income initially nor later at a constant level. You can make good 
use of the flexibility once transferred to plan your financial situation, plus there are lump sum 
death benefits in the transferred plan. Once transferred, you then will need to plan how best 
to use your pot. If you keep your plan with (the OPS) then you will receive an ongoing 
taxable income (which I do not believe you need). If that wasnt an accurate summary of Mr Bs income requirements, then I would have 
expected him to have questioned that position. If Mr B did in fact need the income from the 
plan, I think he ought to have stated that clearly at the time. Wine Lewis Hemingway made 
numerous references to the fact that the transfer wasnt viable on an income comparison 
basis  and Mr B acknowledged that position. If income had been important to him then its 
unclear to me why he wouldnt have rejected the recommendation if, after transferring, he 
would have had access to far less income than from the OPS. 
Mr B says his medical issues werent discussed in any great depth and his attitude to risk 
wasnt explored during the process  so hes concluded that Wine Lewis Hemingway had 
already decided to transfer his OPS benefits when he first met them and that it simply 
carried out the transaction in exchange for the fee it had negotiated  which he thought was 
much lower than other firms would have charged for the same size of transfer. 
Wine Lewis Hemingway did record a lot of information about Mr Bs health at the time of the 
advice and although there were no medical questions that needed to be answered when 
applying for the new plan, in hindsight, Wine Lewis Hemingway could have made further 
enquiries about his health to be fully aware of the medical factors which I think drove Mr Bs 
reason for transferring. But I dont think it made a mistake by not making further enquiries, 
and I havent seen any persuasive evidence to suggest that Wine Lewis Hemingway ought 
to have made an assessment to ensure Mr B was in a fit state to go through the decision 
making process. Mr B raised a number of questions during the process and didnt suggest 
that he might have been rushed into making the decision at the time. Indeed, in one of its 
emails to Mr B, after he had said he wanted to go ahead with the transfer, Wine Lewis 
Hemingway stated that the process could be stopped at any time if Mr B decided to do so.
To some extent I agree that Wine Lewis Hemingway, based on what it has said previously 
about Mr Bs desire to transfer for other reasons  and on the basis that it didnt feel the 
need to provide a detailed recommendation, ought to have considered treating him as an 
insistent client instead, if indeed Mr B could be categorised as such. But regardless of its 
failings, I believe that there were other more important factors (to Mr B) that, understandably, 
drove this pension transfer.  And for the reasons given in the provisional decision, I remain of 
the view that, having satisfied himself of the various aspects of the transfer, and what it 
would mean for him personally and for his wider family, Mr B would have gone ahead and 
transferred irrespective of any advice to the contrary.
 
To reiterate and expand on some of my thinking about this, in his email exchange with Wine 
Lewis Hemingway on 26 October 2018 Mr B confirmed that he was aware of the almost 
£412,000 shortfall in capital (to provide the same pension benefits) that he would incur on 
transferring. He also raised a number of points about the death benefits that would be 
available from both schemes. In my view he demonstrated not just a good understanding 
and grasp of what was at stake upon transferring, but also showed that when weighing up 
those advantages and disadvantages he saw the main benefit to him and his family as being 
the death benefits which would be produced by the transfer. 
And whilst Ive taken into account Mr Bs more recent comments about his state of health, 
there was evidence to suggest that Mr B had a number of health issues which could affect 
his life expectancy, as also evidenced in some of the comments made in bringing his 
complaint, and with the cash equivalent transfer value of his OPS being over £700,000, I can 
understand that this would be a big loss to Mr B if he died and his wife then only received 
50% of his annual pension income.  I think, looking at Mr Bs circumstances at the time, its 
not unreasonable that this would have been the most important factor in deciding to transfer 
- and I dont think its unfair or unreasonable to conclude that, in that specific set of circumstances, he would have gone ahead with the transfer regardless of what Wine Lewis 
Hemingway may have said.
Ive also taken into account that Mr B had 36 years experience within financial services. I 
appreciate he didnt have direct experience of pension transfers, but he didnt need to be an 
expert in pensions here. Its likely he had financial literacy, combined with his seemingly 
good level of understanding of what was being proposed as evidenced by the emails. Its 
likely he understood what was being proposed and the implications. 
So, although Ive said that I dont think Wine Lewis Hemingway acted without failings, Im not 
persuaded that those failings would, or should, automatically lead to the transfer being 
unsuitable, or the complaint being upheld on that basis. I think the death benefits Mr Bs 
family would receive were a more important driver here and would have led to Mr B, not 
unreasonably, proceeding with the transfer.
In my provisional decision, although I concluded that Wine Lewis Hemingway werent 
responsible for unsuitable advice around the transfer, I did think it should compensate Mr B 
for the lack of investment of his funds after the transfer. I said that part of the actual transfer 
process was to consider the suitability of the overall transaction  including the investments 
to be used - in order to determine whether it was in Mr Bs best interest. A failure to take that 
information into account could affect the advice given  particularly when considering the risk 
involved with any investments. 
However, I did say that had there been communication between Wine Lewis Hemingway 
and Mr Bs adviser to effectively hand over this responsibility and ensure that reinvestment 
advice was promptly given, I might be inclined to attribute no responsibility to it for the lack of 
investment return on the transferred funds until they were in fact invested.  
So Ive thought carefully about Wine Lewis Hemingways further submissions on the matter. 
Following conformation that the transfer had completed, Wine Lewis Hemingway sent Mr B 
an email on 20 November 2018. It said the money is with [the new provider]. We will send 
written confirmation. Copied to Ian. That would suggest the other adviser was made aware 
that the transfer had completed, and he was able to pick up with Mr B at that point  
although I understand a change of agency form hadnt been completed at that point. 
But Ive seen no acknowledgement of this from the other adviser, or that, in its absence the 
matter was followed up to ensure that reinvestment took place. I dont consider that to have 
copied in the other adviser constituted handing over this responsibility and ensuring that 
reinvestment advice was promptly given.  And so Im not persuaded that the email 
constituted an effective hand over or that it should now mean I change my view on the 
matter of further investment.
And secondly, I appreciate that Wine Lewis Hemingway says it had an arrangement 
whereby it would transfer the funds into cash awaiting the other advisers further investment 
advice. 
But when a risk profile questionnaire was completed during the transfer process it was 
agreed that Mr B was a highest medium (7 out of 10) risk investor  and this should have 
been the basis on which the suitability of the transfer was assessed and recommended. 
Although my prevailing view remains that Mr B would have transferred, irrespective of a 
specific recommendation not to do so, if a suitability consideration had been based upon 
investment into highest medium funds then I think Wine Lewis Hemingway should have 
confirmed its assessment of the suitability was based on investment along those lines. I 
dont think copying the other adviser into an email which simply said that the transfer was 
complete fulfilled that requirement.Wine Lewis Hemingway says that it had made arrangements for the future investments to be 
put in place  but for whatever reason they werent carried out. But my view is that the 
responsibility for ensuring that these investment plans were, at the very least, carried out by 
the other adviser lay with Wine Lewis Hemingway  because it knew Mr B had been 
assessed as being suited to investment in highest medium funds. I think responsibility for 
that investment not taking place and the funds remaining in cash until Mr B himself later 
invested them, must lay predominantly with Wine Lewis Hemingway, and so I think it should 
compensate Mr B as follows. 
Putting things right
Wine Hemingway Lewis Ltd should compare the current value of Mr Bs pension funds with a 
notional value, had the eventual investment strategy been implemented once the funds were 
received in the PPP  and I think this should have been possible within a week of the funds 
being received in the PPP.
If theres a loss, Wine Hemingway Lewis Ltd should ensure Mr Bs PPP is increased by that 
value, taking account of any available tax relief and charges. 
If its not possible to do so, or it would conflict with any annual allowance or protections in 
place, the loss should be paid to Mr B, net of a notional amount of tax to reflect his tax free 
cash entitlement and income tax rate. Ive assumed that Mr B is a basic rate tax payer, so 
this should be an overall notional deduction of 15%. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Wine Hemingway Lewis Ltd in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman