DRN-4086861
The complaint
Mr F complains that Society of Lloyds has turned down an unemployment claim he made on 
an income protection insurance policy.
All references to Lloyds includes the actions of its administrators.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr F took out an income protection insurance policy through a broker, which 
was underwritten by Lloyds. The policy provided unemployment cover.
Unfortunately, in March 2021, Mr Fs employment was terminated on the grounds of 
capability. So Mr F made a claim on the policy.
Lloyds looked into Mr Fs claim. It noted that Mr Fs employer had raised concerns about 
certain areas of his performance at an annual performance meeting in January 2020. In July 
2020, Mr F was placed on a formal performance improvement plan (PIP). In February 2021, 
Mr F was given a written warning, as his performance hadnt materially improved. And in 
March 2021, Mr F was dismissed on the grounds of capability.
The contractual definition of unemployment required a policyholder to be without work due to 
their employment ending unexpectedly and due to circumstances outside their control. 
Ultimately, given Mr Fs employer had had concerns about his performance over a prolonged 
period and hed been placed on a PIP, Lloyds felt Mr F
 had been aware of the possibility of 
unemployment from January 2020 onwards. And it concluded that hed had the chance to 
improve his performance between January 2020 and the date of his dismissal. So it didnt 
think the loss of Mr Fs job was outside of his control either. 
On that basis, Lloyds concluded that Mr F hadnt met the policy definition of 
unemployed/unemployment and so it turned down his claim.
Mr F was unhappy with Lloyds decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr F's complaint should be upheld. She wasnt satisfied that Mr 
F's job had ended unexpectedly or that its loss was outside of Mr F's control. So she didnt 
think it had been unfair for Lloyds to turn down the claim.
Mr F disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to the investigator. He didnt think 
Lloyds could rely on the unexpected part of the definition, as it hadnt included a timescale 
as to when something could be considered unexpected. He referred to a policy term which 
excluded claims where a policyholder was aware of the risk of their becoming unemployed 
prior to the start date of the policy. So he felt that Lloyds had intended to apply such an 
exclusion only where the awareness of the possibility of unemployment pre-dated the policy 
start date. He also stated that the reason for his dismissal had been capability  it hadnt 
been that he hadnt tried hard enough. Capability wasnt down to being at fault. Hed had no 
motive not to try and keep his jo b, but he said that sometimes a person can try their best, but 
if theyre incapable, it wont hel p. He also felt th at the policy was worthless.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr F, I think it was fair for Lloyds to turn down 
his claim and Ill explain why.
The releva nt regulators rul es sa y tha t insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered , amo ngst other things, 
the policy terms and conditions and the available evidence, to decide whether I think Lloyds 
treated Mr F fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr F's 
contract with Lloyds. Mr F made an unemployment claim, so I think it was reasonable and 
appropriate for Lloyds to consider whether Mr F met the policy definition of 
unemployed/unemployment when it assessed whether or not his claim should be accepted. 
Unemployed/unemployment is defined as follows:
You are without work due to your employment ending unexpectedly and due to 
circumstances beyond your control
I accept Mr F's point that the policy doesnt define what unexpected means. Where an 
insurer hasnt defined what it means by a particular term, we will generally consider the 
dictionary definition of that term and the plain and ordinary meaning of it. In this case, Ive 
considered a well-known dictionary definition of unexpected, which defines unexpected as 
not expected, or surprising. In my view, a plain and ordinary interpretation of the word 
unexpected by a reasonable policyholde r would generally lead to a similar understanding 
that it meant something which was surprising or unlikely.
Mr F feels that Lloyds shouldve set out a timescale in the contract terms to define the 
period it considered to be unexpected. But it hasnt done so. However, elsewhere in the 
policy, it did include a term which excluded claims if a policyholder was aware of the 
possibility or risk of unemployment prior to the policy start date. In the absence of a clear 
definition of the period which Lloyds considers to be unexpected, Mr F appears to consider 
that the period should be interpreted as meaning to prior to the commencement of the 
contract. But I dont agree. That timescale was drafted as part of a specific term and applies 
to a specific policy exclusion  it isnt included in the policy definition of 
unemployment/unemployed. And I dont think I could fairly or reasonably effectively in sert a 
clause into the contractual definition and alter its meaning. 
Lloyds concluded that the termination of Mr F's unemployment wasnt unexpected and so 
Ive considered whether I think this was a fair conclusion for it to draw. Its clear from the 
dismissal letter dated  which was written by Mr F's employer, that concerns 
about his performance were first raised in January 2020. This was around 14 months before 
he was ultimately dismissed. The letter refers to a period of informal performance 
management. Around six months later, Mr F was placed on a formal PIP. I dont have a 
copy of the PIP, or what Mr F's plan looked like, but the letter states that Mr F was placed on 
a formal PIP because his performance hadnt improved during the period of informal 
performance management. I think its likely though that the PIP set out ways in which Mr F's 
employer felt his performance needed to improve and that its likely the PIP included 
objectives or targets. 
In February 2021, the letter states that Mr F was placed on a written warning in relation to 
his continued underperformance. A further PIP was then implemented. However, the letter 
stated that Mr F was still not meeting the (role) competencies despite the time and support 
provided to address the development areas. And at that point, Mr F was dismissed from his 
role.
Despite requests from Lloyds, Mr F's employer didnt provide any further information about 
Mr F's PIP, meetings etc. So I cant say with any certainty what Mr F had been told by his 
employer about potential next steps, or whether he shouldve known that he would be 
dismissed. But based on the evidence we do have, it seems to me that it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to conclude that Mr F had been on performance improvement plan, both informal 
and formal, for over a year before he was given a written warning. So it appears he ought to 
have realised that there was the potential for his role to end if his employer didnt feel his 
performance had improved. As the months of the formal PIP continued, it seems that the 
chance of Mr F's dismissal increased. I also think, given the prolonged nature of the PIP, it 
was reasonable for Lloyds to consider that Mr F was likely aware that his employer didnt 
feel he was meeting the competencies of his role. And that despite the PIP, his employer 
didnt think his performance was improving. I dont think it was unfair for Lloyds to take the 
view that Mr F likely knew that if he didnt pass the PIP, then he would be dismissed. 
In the round, I dont think it was unfair for Lloyds to conclude that Mr F's dismissal wasnt 
unexpected, as I dont think it was entirely unforeseen to Mr F, or that it wouldve come as a 
surprise. I say that because he was under formal and informal performance management for 
more than a year and a written warning was issued. On that basis, I dont find Lloyds treated 
Mr F unreasonably when it concluded that his unemployment wasnt unexpected. Therefore, 
it follows that I dont think it was unfair for it to decide that Mr F hadnt met the first limb of the 
unemployed/unemployment definition. 
Im conscious that Mr F feels strongly that its unfair for Lloyds to have concluded that his 
unemployment was within his control. Its clear, from the employers letter, that Mr F had 
been provided with support and development areas. And that his dismissal was linked to his 
employers perception that Mr F's performance hadnt improved, despite the PIP. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to reach the conclusion that if Mr F's employer had felt 
his performance had improved in line with the development areas it had identified, Mr F 
would not have been dismissed. On that basis, it seems fair for Lloyds to have decided that 
fulfilment of the PIP and the retention of his job was within Mr F's control. Therefore, I dont 
think it was unfair for Lloyds to take the view that Mr F hadnt met the second limb of the 
unemployment definition either. 
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr F's position, I dont think it was unfair for 
Lloyds to conclude that he hadnt met the policy definition of unemployed/unemployed, And 
therefore, I find it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to turn down Mr F's claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman