DRN-2582293
The complaint
B complains that it lost the opportunity to make a claim on its professional indemnity policy 
because it was misadvised by Caunce OHara & Co Ltd about the cover it provided.
What happened
In October 2016, B was in a dispute with a client over unpaid invoices and was considering 
taking legal action. B called its broker, Caunce OHara, and asked, in general terms, whether 
its policy covered contract disputes, but was told that it didnt. During the call, B mentioned 
the dispute with its client but was told it wouldnt be covered. Caunce OHaras note of the 
call said:
Client called asking if contract dispute is covered I advised it isnt.
A few weeks later, Caunce OHara invited B to renew the policy. Bs testimony is that it said 
it had no ongoing contracts and questioned the value of the policy given the lack of cover for 
contract disputes. It says Caunce OHara didnt challenge its understanding of this, so it let 
the policy lapse. Caunce OHaras note of the call said:
Client lapsed as he isnt currently trading he will look at us when he comes back.
The policy lapsed on 6 December 2016. 
In October 2018, B got back in touch with Caunce OHara after concluding from a marketing 
communication that the policies it sold did cover some contract disputes. By this point, Bs 
client had also made its own, separate claim against B for breach of contract and the judge 
had decided B owed its client damages (in relation to one of the three contracts in dispute).
B wanted to know whether it could retrospectively claim in relation to either dispute. It sent 
Caunce OHara some information about the claims, including a copy of a letter it received 
from its clients solicitor in November 2016. This was the first time the client had made 
allegations and threatened to issue proceedings of its own.
Caunce OHara passed the information to the insurer to consider. The insurer said the policy 
was a claims made policy, which meant it had to be notified of claims, via Caunce OHara, 
during the period of insurance. As Bs policy had lapsed in 2016, and it hadnt been notified 
of the clients allegations until 2018, it said the claim had been made late. It said the policy 
did cover some contract disputes, contrary to what B said it was told by Caunce OHara. 
This caused B some confusion. It argued that it had no reason to tell the insurer about the 
clients allegations at the time because Caunce OHara had led it to understand that contract 
disputes werent covered. It also didnt understand how the insurer had relied on this to 
decline its own claim against the client because it had told Caunce OHara about that while 
the policy was still live. 
B complained to Caunce OHara as it felt it had been misadvised during both calls in 2016. 
And this seemed to have resulted in it losing the opportunity to make a successful claim in 
relation to any of the legal action. Caunce OHara didnt think it could be held responsible for 
this and commented that it didnt become aware of the clients allegations, which is what the 
insurer seemed to be focussing on, until 2018, by which time the policy had already lapsed. 
B referred the complaint to our service for an independent review. Our investigator didnt 
think Caunce OHara could be held responsible for Bs failure to meet the terms of its policy 
relating to the notification of claims. So, he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
B continued to question how it could reasonably be expected to have notified the insurer of a 
contract dispute after being told they werent covered. It added that it hadnt recognised the 
clients allegations as a potential claim at first. And it hadnt received the particulars of the 
clients claim until June 2017. It highlighted that it had given Caunce OHara notice of its own 
claim against the client during the period of insurance. And it said the clients allegations 
were not in reality connected with the contractual dispute. 
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on 13 January 2021. I said:
What cover does Bs policy provide?
Its important to start by clarifying that Bs policy only covers claims made against it. I know 
this wasnt explained to B in October 2016. But it does mean Bs claim against its client for 
unpaid invoices would never have been eligible for funding, regardless of the cover available 
for contract disputes. The only aspect of the legal action that might have attracted cover 
were Bs defence costs (in relation to the clients claim) and its liability to the client. 
At the time B had the conversations with Caunce OHara in 2016, the client was yet to make 
any allegations against it. The allegations were made around a week after the call during 
which B decided not to renew the policy took place (but before the policy actually lapsed). 
B has said it didnt notify the insurer of the allegations because it saw no reason to. It had 
been led to think the policy didnt cover contract disputes during the discussions about its 
own claim. And it hadnt recognised at first that its client was making a claim against it. 
It does now appear that Caunce OHaras advice was incorrect. The policy covers Bs civil 
liability and defence costs in connection with the conduct of professional services and 
provides compensation for court attendance. However, under contractual liabilities and 
guarantees it excludes any claim arising from any contractual agreement in respect of:
A) any express guarantee given by the insured including any relating to the period of 
a project or
B) any agreement to use more than reasonable care and skill or
C) any express contractual penalty made between the insured and a third party or
D) any acceptance by the insured of liability for liquidated damages
in so far as liability assumed by the insured exceeds the amount of the insureds 
liability in the absence of such agreementIn my view, this means civil claims relating to contract disputes are covered if they dont 
arise from the situations listed above. The insurer seems to have taken the same view in its 
correspondence with B. Its important to note that there are other general exclusions which 
might apply to a particular claim and theres a requirement in the policy that the insurer will 
only contest a claim if a Queens Counsel advises theres a prospect of success. But Bs 
testimony is that Caunce OHara told it there was no cover at all for contract disputes. 
Did Caunce OHara advice B correctly?
The contemporaneous evidence in this case is limited. The calls werent recorded and 
Caunce OHaras notes about them are brief. But Im conscious that it hasnt disputed what B 
says it was told. When asked its understanding of the cover available for contract disputes, 
its response differentiated between contract disputes and legitimate claims. 
On the balance of probabilities Im satisfied Caunce OHara gave incorrect advice to B about 
the extent of the cover it had for contract disputes. The brief note available from the time 
says Caunce OHara told B that the policy didnt cover contract disputes, but that was 
incorrect based on the terms highlighted above and the insurers testimony. 
But for Caunce OHaras advice, would B have notified the insurer of the claim in time? 
In deciding whether B has lost out as a result of Caunce OHaras error, Ive considered, on 
balance, what it would have done if it had received the correct advice. In doing so, Ive been 
careful not to apply hindsight. Firstly, Ive considered whether B would have notified the 
insurer, via Caunce OHara, of the clients claim during the period of insurance. 
B considered until recently that the insurer was relying on its failure to notify it of the clients 
allegations as a reason not to cover its claim against the client, as well as the clients claim 
against it. It therefore sought to separate the two claims, and suggested to the insurer that 
the two werent connected.
It insisted the client didnt in fact make a claim until June 2017 when B received a formal 
document outlining the full particulars of the claim. From the information provided the only 
previous correspondence from Bs client letter was the letter from November 2016.
B has dismissed the significance of the clients November 2016 letter and described it as a 
feeble attempt to defend and justify their refusal to pay the last instalment of a 3-instalment 
contract payment in response to its own letters threatening legal action. Since then its told 
our investigator it didnt recognise in November 2016 that the client was making a separate 
claim against it. It seems to have understood that the allegations were just a natural part of 
the clients defence of Bs claim, rather than notice of a potential separate claim against it, 
and that the clients threat to issue proceedings wasnt genuine, credible or substantiated.
In one piece of correspondence, B even suggests the clients claim was dismissed. But the 
judgment against B refers back to the particulars of claim document from June 2017, which 
lists B as a defendant and the client as a claimant. 
The connection (or lack of one) between the two claims is ultimately irrelevant because B 
was only ever potentially covered to defend the clients claim. So, that claim needed to be 
notified to the insurer in its own right, during the period of insurance. Bs testimony that a 
claim wasnt made against it until June 2017, and that the clients previous allegations were 
insignificant, make it difficult for B to show it would have acted differently had it received the 
correct advice from Caunce OHara. B appears not to have recognised a claim was being 
made against it until June 2017, but had allowed its policy to lapse in December 2016.I realise Caunce OHara contributed to the misunderstanding which resulted in B making 
these arguments. But taking into account what Bs said about the allegations made by its 
client in November 2016, Im not satisfied it would have seen any reason to notify the insurer 
about them until June 2017 when it received the particulars of claim. Even if Caunce OHara 
had explained B was covered to defend certain contract disputes, it doesnt seem to have 
registered at first that there was a claim it might need to defend itself against. 
So, it becomes necessary to consider, again on balance and without applying hindsight, 
whether it would have renewed the policy in late 2016 had Caunce OHara advised it 
correctly about the cover available for contract disputes. And therefore whether valid cover 
would have been in place in June 2017 when B received the particulars of claim. 
Would B have renewed the policy if it had received the correct advice? 
In most respects, the choice B would have been faced with during the call in October 2016 
would have been the same. It still would have had the disappointment of not being covered 
to pursue a claim against its client, or in fact to pursue any claims. It might have understood 
it was covered to defend certain contract disputes. But the client hadnt yet made allegations 
of its own against B. 
Furthermore, B wasnt doing any work for any other clients at the time. Whilst B has pointed 
to the perceived lack of cover for contract disputes as its main reason for allowing the policy 
to lapse, I dont think thats consistent with the evidence. The call note from Caunce OHara 
only mentions Bs lack of ongoing contracts. It describes that B isnt currently trading and 
suggests there was a discussion about setting up a new policy with Caunce OHara if B took 
on more contracts, despite Bs perception that there was no cover for contract disputes. 
I also think its reasonable to expect that if the main factor in Bs decision had been the lack 
of cover for contract disputes, rather than its lack of ongoing contracts, it would have sought 
to replace the policy with a new one that did cover contract disputes. But B didnt seek any 
alternative cover after letting its policy lapse. This would again suggest that the perceived 
lack of cover for contract disputes was less of a factor than its lack of ongoing contracts. 
Additionally, it would suggest B didnt foresee that it might need to protect itself from a claim 
in the future. So, I think, on balance, B would still have reached the same decision not to 
renew the policy during the call in October 2016.
I cant rule out a possibility that B might have reconsidered its options on receipt of the 
November 2016 letter which contained the clients allegations. B might then have anticipated 
a possibility that it would need to defend a future claim. And there would still have been an 
opportunity to renew the policy (as it hadnt yet lapsed). But Bs comments about the letter 
dont support B exercising the possibility to renew the policy. Instead, Bs position at that 
time was that the letter constituted a feeble attempt to justify non-payment of a final 
instalment due, and was simply a rebuttal of Bs own allegations against the client. 
Taking the above into account, Im not satisfied its more likely than not that B would have 
opted to renew the policy, even if it had received the correct advice. I think its more likely B 
would still have let the policy lapse, as it did in reality. I appreciate B feels it would have 
acted differently, but it wouldnt have had the benefit of hindsight it has now. 
What would have happened if B had tried to make the claim in June 2017?
Had B attempted to make a claim in June 2017, having allowed the policy to lapse in 
December 2016, its likely the insurer would have said the claim had been made late, given 
that the policy only covers claims made during the period of insurance (as opposed to claims 
occurring during the period of insurance) and is priced accordingly. While this complaint is about the advice from Caunce OHara, I note the insurer wrote to B 
explaining it wouldnt have covered any claim made beyond the expiry date of the policy. 
And by June 2017 the insurer would have lost the opportunity to explore settling the claim 
out of court. 
Taking everything into account, Im not satisfied to a sufficient degree that B lost out on the 
opportunity to make a claim in relation to its defence costs and liability to its client solely due 
to the advice it received from Caunce OHara. B doesnt seem to have recognised the client 
was making a separate claim against it until June 2017, by which point I think it would likely 
have allowed its policy to lapse due to a lack of contracts (even if it had received the correct 
advice). And it appears that had B made a claim in June 2017 it would have been declined 
on the basis of it not having been made during the period of insurance. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
B sent us some additional context about its dispute with its client. In summary, it said:
Whilst the non-payment of invoices was the only aspect of the dispute which had 
materialised when B called Caunce OHara in October 2016, a wider dispute 
about the validity of various contracts was gradually developing. Thats why B 
posed a general question about cover for contract disputes;
The main purpose of the policy was to cover claims arising from the software B 
developed malfunctioning. In November 2016, the software B had developed for 
this client had long been operating reliably. So, it no longer needed cover for the 
professional indemnity risks associated with the software itself. As B perceived 
there was no cover for disputes arising from its contracts with the client either, 
and it had no other clients at the time, it saw no value in renewing the policy;  
B assumed the ongoing dispute with the client would be considered pre-existing 
and would therefore be excluded under a new policy. If that wasnt the case, 
Caunce OHara should have offered to look for new policies;  
Had it been told it was covered for defending contract disputes, it would naturally 
have wanted that cover to continue given the evolving contract dispute with its 
client, especially once B received the November 2016 letter (at which point it still 
had time to ask Caunce OHara to renew the policy). In this scenario, the insurer 
couldnt have relied on a late notification, even if B made the claim in June 2017; 
The contract dispute concerned three different contracts (contracts X, Y and Z). 
The allegation in the November 2016 letter concerned contract X only and was 
rejected in court (hence Bs reference to it being dismissed). B didnt become 
aware of allegations concerning contracts Y or Z until June 2017;  
The letter contained other allegations relevant to a wider dispute about 
intellectual property (IP) rights. It was these allegations B meant werent 
connected with the non-payment issue. It wasnt saying the clients claim that 
contract X was invalid was unrelated to its claim for unpaid invoices; 
The client had made other threats and allegations linked mainly to the IP dispute, 
but that arguably would have been considered contractual in nature, as early as 
11 October 2016. B presented a letter of that date in which the clients solicitors 
threatened to commence court proceedings if documents relating to the software, 
like the source code, werent delivered up as per the terms of a contract; Its wrong to assert B dismissed the significance of the November 2016 letter. 
The specific allegation concerning the validity of contract X was feeble, and was 
seemingly a device to exert pressure on B to give ground on the wider IP dispute. 
But the letter also contained other serious threats and allegations. B assumed the 
IP issues would be outside the scope of a professional indemnity policy, but was 
wary that the contractual elements of the dispute were constantly evolving and 
would have wanted to protect itself from every eventuality; 
It was correct to say the claim wasnt raised until June 2017. The November 2016 
letter simply contained a threat of a claim. The fact B thought the allegation was 
feeble doesnt mean it didnt appreciate the risk that the client might nevertheless 
include it in any legal action and / or make further contractual allegations;
Even if B had let the policy lapse in December 2016, the insurer wouldnt have 
been prejudiced by not being notified of the claim until June 2017. The claims 
werent heard until May 2018 and no real defence costs were incurred prior to 
June 2017. The allegations contained within the November 2016 letter 
concerning contract X were successfully defended;
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While it isnt necessarily clear that an IP dispute was outside the scope of the policy, B 
accepts that was its perception at the time. It hasnt tried to make a claim in relation to the 
wider IP dispute, or suggested that it would have done but for the advice it received from 
Caunce OHara. Its only claimed for the dispute concerning contracts X, Y and Z. 
B says it was conscious of being involved in a gradually evolving dispute concerning the 
validity of various contracts when it called Caunce OHara in October 2016. But the only 
aspect of the dispute which had materialised then was the clients non-payment of invoices. 
Looking at the correspondence from summer 2016, its clear that the client initially withheld 
payment pending a resolution to the IP issues. It didnt dispute the validity of contract X until 
November 2016. And B has been clear that it wasnt made aware of the clients allegations 
concerning contracts Y or Z until the particulars of claim were issued in June 2017.
I note B has now shared a letter from 11 October 2016, and remarks that the contents could 
conceivably fall under the scope of the cover for contract disputes. But it seems to have felt it 
was only relevant to the IP dispute prior to now. It hasnt indicated this letter has relevance to 
the contract dispute at any point previously. It didnt present a copy of the letter to the insurer 
or Caunce OHara. And its consistently referred to the letter dated 16 November 2016 as the 
first time the client threatened to pursue a claim relating to the contract dispute. Its also said 
the non-payment of invoices was the only aspect of the dispute which had materialised when 
it spoke to Caunce OHara some weeks after this letter on 31 October 2016. 
So, in my view, the situation at the point B decided to let the policy lapse would have been 
as I described it in my provisional decision, other than its involvement in an IP dispute which 
it assumed was outside the scope of the policy. The client had withheld payment pending a 
resolution to this dispute, and B would have had the disappointment of not being covered to 
pursue a claim about that. It no longer needed cover for the professional indemnity risks 
arising from its software, which was its main reason for having the policy. The client had 
declined to authorise further contracts and B had no other clients at the time. The client hadnt yet raised concerns about the validity of contracts X, Y or Z. Its possible B 
may have thought the client might later question the validity of a contract given the disputes 
over IP rights and the non-payment of invoices. But I dont think this is more likely than not. 
Arguably, the client was just as likely to raise a non-contractual dispute, but B let the policy 
lapse nevertheless. And I cant see B said or did anything that might demonstrate a concern 
over its perceived lack of cover to defend contract disputes after it spoke to Caunce OHara, 
although Ive noted its comments that it didnt think there was anything it could do. 
I appreciate B feels logic dictates that it would have renewed the policy on receiving an 
allegation of breach of contract a few weeks later had it known it was covered to defend 
contract disputes. But the reality seems more nuanced. The allegation was made amidst 
correspondence concerning a wider IP dispute that B perceived wasnt covered. It was also 
a counter to Bs claim for unpaid invoices, which wasnt covered either. It seems clear that 
the threat to issue proceedings followed on from an earlier threat made on 11 October 2016, 
and related to the dispute as a whole rather than the validity of contract X specifically.
I think its important to balance Bs more recent comments about the letter against comments 
it has made previously. In a letter it wrote to Caunce OHara, it downplayed the importance 
of the November 2016 letter. It said that the clients response (which {the insurer} term a 
counterclaim) was in fact a feeble attempt to defend and justify their refusal to pay the last 
instalment of a 3-instalment contract payment. [For your information, {the client} did not 
submit a counterclaim until 22 June 2017]. And it later said the client used its refusal to 
pay invoices or authorise further contracts to pressure B into submission on the IP dispute. 
B now claims that it would have told the insurer about the allegation relating to contract X 
and renewed its policy on the strength of it had it been given the right advice. But I think 
thats weakened by its previous comments that the November 2016 letter wasnt significant 
in the context of the contract dispute, that it was misleading to call it a counter-claim and that 
the validity of contracts X, Y and Z wasnt disputed in earnest until June 2017. 
Im not satisfied B would have distinguished the allegation concerning contract X contained 
in the November 2016 letter from the aspects of the dispute it perceived werent covered 
until it received the particulars of claim. So, Im not persuaded it would have registered the 
significance of the allegation in terms of its insurance policy until June 2017. Like Ive said, 
I think its likely the period of insurance would have ended by then. B would only have been 
covered for claims made during the period of insurance. I wouldnt have expected the insurer 
to disregard the late notification because the situation had changed. The claim had evolved, 
the client had commenced proceedings and had likely incurred costs in doing so. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman