DRN-3449362
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
On 24 September 2020, Mr H was sent two payments: one for £500, and one for £600. He 
forwarded these payments on to another account of his right after.
The sending bank reported that their customer had been abducted and forced to send Mr H 
the payments. Mr H denies this. He says hes a self-employed mechanic in addition to his 
normal job. He said that the night before, on 23 September, he fixed the senders car and 
they promised to pay him £500 the next morning. He said they sent him an extra £600 by 
mistake, and he was aware of the mistake, but he did not return it as he was busy at work. 
He said he didnt keep invoices or receipts for his car repair business and couldnt evidence 
that he had done the repairs or was entitled to the funds. He found CCTV footage showing 
he was at his normal job on the morning the payments were sent, which he felt proved the 
sender was not coerced into paying him.
Lloyds closed Mr Hs account and registered a marker against him at CIFAS.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found a number of inconsistencies in Mr Hs testimony, and noted that it should have been 
simple for Mr H to evidence that hed repaired the car, yet there was no evidence he was 
entitled to the money at all. They explained that even if the CCTV showed that Mr H wasnt 
physically present, it didnt show that he was uninvolved as his account was used.
Mr H asked for his case to be reviewed afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, Lloyds were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr H had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I think Lloyds did have sufficient grounds to register this marker. Ill 
explain why.
First, I do accept that the CCTV footage shows Mr H was at work when the payments were 
made. However, that does not prove that the sender was not forced into making the 
payments, and it does not prove that Mr H was uninvolved. After all, it is perfectly possible 
that Mr H had accomplices who abducted the sender, while Mr Hs role was to receive and 
pass on the funds so they couldnt be recovered.
If these payments really were for car repairs, then it would have been very straightforward 
for Mr H to evidence this. Thats because if Mr H were running a legitimate car repair 
business, he would have been required to keep invoices and receipts for tax purposes and 
for the proper running of his business. Yet despite being asked for this repeatedly, Mr H has 
not provided any proper documentary evidence to show that he actually repaired the 
senders car. On the other hand, Lloyds received an official fraud report from the sending 
back detailing how the sender was forced into sending Mr H the funds. This strongly 
suggests that Mr H was not entitled to this money.
Indeed, Mr H admits himself that he was not entitled to the £600. And he says he was told 
that same morning that it was a mistake. Yet instead of sending it back, he forwarded it on to 
another account so Lloyds couldnt recover it. Mr H claims he was unable to send it back 
because he was at work. But he sent it to his other account while at work, around the same 
time he was told it was a mistake. So he clearly was able to make transfers. Mr H also said 
he forwarded it on as he was concerned the funds would be frozen. But I cant see why that 
would concern him since he wasnt entitled to that money anyway  indeed, if Lloyds had 
taken it back, it would have saved Mr H from having to do it himself. And it appears that Mr H 
didnt return that money later on either, when he was no longer at work. So even by Mr Hs 
own admission, he received money he wasnt entitled to, and not only did he not tell his bank 
it was a mistake at the time or reverse the payment, he actually sent it on such that it 
couldnt be returned. Indeed, Mr H acted very quickly to forward on the disputed payments, 
meaning Lloyds couldnt recover them. That fits well with the possibility this was fraud. 
Mr Hs testimony has been inconsistent at other points, too. Hes given differing versions of 
events about things like how many people were involved, how he met the sender and 
whether hed met them before, what repairs he did, and so on. I appreciate that memory can 
fade over time, but many of these conversations were not long after the events in question, 
and the contradictions have been significant. Given how inconsistent Mr Hs testimony has 
been, it makes it very difficult for me to accept any of his versions of events as being correct.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr H 
knowingly received the proceeds of fraud  even if I accept that he was not present himself 
when the sender was allegedly abducted.
In summary, Lloyds received an official fraud report from another bank. Mr H has been 
unable to provide any proper evidence that he was entitled to these funds, even when he 
was required to keep such evidence for his business, and when such evidence would have 
been very straightforward to get. Mr H has admitted that he was not entitled to the larger of 
the payments, yet he kept it and forwarded it on very quickly such that it would not be 
recovered. And his testimony has been inconsistent, implausible, and contradictory in 
places. So taking everything together, I think its fair that Lloyds registered the appropriate 
marker at CIFAS. It follows that I also think its reasonable they closed Mr Hs account, which 
they were allowed to do under the terms and conditions.This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr H to 
receive. I do understand that Mr H has been going through a tough time. But given the 
evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other 
conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman