DRN-2390283
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complaint about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with, and recorded, 
damage they reported to their window.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G jointly held a policy of insurance with Aviva. On 13 February 2020 they noticed 
the inner pane of their upstairs window had shattered. But they werent aware what had 
caused this to happen. 
Mr and Mrs G contacted Aviva to report the damage to their window and see whether they 
could make a claim under their insurance policy. But Aviva informed them that, because they 
couldnt confirm what had caused their window to break, it wouldnt cover the damage.
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with Avivas decision not to cover their claim. So, they 
complained. Subsequent to Mr and Mrs Gs complaint, Aviva overturned its decision to 
decline their claim outright and instructed a company (V) to attend their property to inspect 
their window. 
When V attended Mr and Mrs Gs home it declared that their window had broken due to a 
manufacturing defect. So, the damaged window was replaced without charge by the window 
manufacturer as a product recall issue. 
As the problem with their window was resolved, Mr and Mrs G had no need to further pursue 
the claim they had initially wanted to make about this window with Aviva. However, they 
were unhappy theyd only been able to resolve the issue with their window after raising a 
complaint. Aviva recognised it had provided conflicting information about it not covering their 
claim and paid them £50 in compensation.
On 1 April 2020 Mr and Mrs G took out a new insurance policy with a different insurer that Ill 
refer to within this decision as O. When asked by O whether theyd made any claims under 
their previous policies Mr and Mrs G replied they had not as Aviva had informed them their 
claim hadnt been recorded.
After Mr and Mrs G incepted their policy with O, they received notification that it intended to 
cancel their policy within seven days. The cancellation notice was dated 10 April. But due to 
postal delays Mr and Mrs G only received it on 16 April 2020.
When Mr and Mrs G queried why theyd been sent a cancellation notice O informed them 
theyd misrepresented their claim history as theyd failed to declare a previous claim. It then 
became apparent that Aviva had recorded theyd made a claim for damage to their window 
on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. 
Mr and Mrs G explained they hadnt pursued a claim with Aviva as their window had been 
replaced by the manufacturer under the product recall policy. And they provided 
correspondence from Aviva confirming this.
O allowed Mr and Mrs Gs insurance policy to continue pending its review of the 
documentation it had been provided with. But Mr and Mrs G contacted Aviva to raise 
concerns about how their report of damage to their window had been recorded. 
When Aviva responded to Mr and Mrs Gs complaint it confirmed it had logged a claim, 
which it had subsequently withdrawn. And it compensated them £100 to recognise the 
trouble and upset this had caused.
Being dissatisfied with how Aviva had dealt with their concerns Mr and Mrs G referred their 
complaint to our service. An investigator looked into what had happened. But, while they 
empathised with Mr and Mrs G, they didnt recommend upholding their complaint. Our 
investigator didnt think Aviva needed to do anything more here. They thought that 
compensation it had already paid was appropriate and fair to recognise the errors it had 
made. But Mr and Mrs G disagreed with our investigators view of their complaint and 
requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr and Mrs G and Aviva for the level of detail contained within their 
submissions. Ive read and considered all the information provided and, if I havent 
specifically referred to a point that Mr and Mrs G or Aviva have made it isnt because I 
havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are the key issues, which is an 
approach that reflects the informal nature of this service.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr and Mrs G experienced here. I know they feel very 
strongly about this matter. And I appreciate the reasons why theyve brought their complaint 
to our service. But, while I sympathise with them, the issue that I must determine is whether I 
think Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in how it decided to settle their complaint. In thinking 
about this, Ive considered things from both sides. 
There are several parts to Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and I think it will make things clearer if I 
deal with each issue separately.
Communication about whether Mr and Mrs G were covered under their policy for the 
damage to their window
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Aviva initially informed Mr and Mrs G 
that it wouldnt be prepared to meet a claim for damage to their window because they 
werent able to say how their window had broken. 
Aviva subsequently agreed to review its position and instructed V to attend Mr and Mrs Gs 
property in order to determine the cause of damage to their window. This ultimately led to Mr 
and Mrs Gs window being replaced  albeit this cost was covered by the window 
manufacturer.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think the change in Avivas position only came about as a 
result of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. And I think Aviva made an error in the initial advice it 
gave Mr and Mrs G about the claim they wanted to make.
Did Aviva make an error in how it recorded information about Mr and Mrs Gs claim on the 
CUE databaseBecause Mr and Mrs G reported the damage to their window, Aviva was entitled to record 
information about their claim as notification only. This is because insurers should record that 
a policyholder has contacted it about an event that might lead to a claim on CUE, which is a 
database used by insurers to share details of reported claims. 
As our investigator explained, while a notification only claim would be recorded on CUE, it 
wouldnt need to be disclosed as a claim by a policyholder. So, it shouldnt have mattered 
that Mr and Mrs G didnt mention their window damage to O.
If Aviva had recorded Mr and Mrs Gs claim as notification only, I wouldnt have directed it to 
remove that information. It would have been a true reflection of what happened. And insurers 
are required to record accurate and up to date claim information about policies held by its 
policyholders on the CUE database so that other insurers are aware.
Based on the evidence Ive seen it appears Aviva initially recorded a full claim on CUE. 
Aviva has now deleted the claim it logged and Ive seen evidence of that. So, Im satisfied 
that this issue shouldnt cause further problems for Mr and Mrs G when they take out 
insurance policies in the future.
Its clear to me that Aviva initially made an error in how it recorded information about Mr and 
Mrs Gs claim on the CUE database. And I think that was unfair because this error caused O 
to send a notice of cancellation to Mr and Mrs G. I have no doubt that this caused distress 
and concern. If Aviva had recorded the claim as notification only, as it should have done, I 
think its most likely Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have encountered the difficulties they did with O 
shortly after taking out their policy. 
Ive considered the written and verbal communication between Aviva and Mr and Mrs G 
about the window damage they reported. From that, its clear that Aviva informed Mr and 
Mrs G no claim had been recorded, which was untrue. I can also see Mr and Mrs G werent 
given proper advice as to the claims process or whether theyd need to disclose their window 
damage to other insurers in the future. 
I think its reasonable to expect Aviva to have informed Mr and Mrs G in unambiguous terms 
of this and that it was entitled, and intending, to record the claim as notification only on the 
CUE database. And I think Aviva should have explained the potential impact of that on future 
policies. But it didnt do either.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied there were shortfalls in the 
information Aviva gave Mr and Mrs G and were errors in the record it made. As Ive already 
explained, that all unfairly impacted on Mr and Mrs G here.
Was the compensation Aviva paid Mr and Mrs G fair and reasonable?
Im satisfied that an award of compensation is warranted given the experience Mr and Mrs G 
had here. Aviva has already paid a total compensatory sum of £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs G were caused. But its clear they dont believe that adequately 
reflects their trouble and upset.
We arent here to punish businesses and, to put things right, Id have asked Aviva to pay a 
reasonable amount of compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience Mr and 
Mrs G were caused. As Aviva has already paid compensation, Ive assessed whether the 
amount is fair and reasonable.  I think its important to explain that when our service awards payments for trouble and upset 
we look at the overall impact on the people involved. We dont award money for each 
individual error. 
Ive taken on board all of Mr and Mrs Gs comments about what happened. They say their 
insurance policy with O could have been cancelled had they not acted proactively in 
contacting it on receipt of its notification of cancellation. And theyve also told our investigator 
about difficulties they encountered in contacting O due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which 
must have added to the worry they felt here. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs G have said here. But their policy with O wasnt 
cancelled. And I havent seen any evidence that theyve suffered financial loss as a result of 
what happened. 
Our service has to consider what actually happened. This means we cant award 
compensation based on hypothetical and speculative situations. And it wouldnt be fair or 
impartial of me to tell Aviva to pay compensation for something that didnt happen. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G spent a fair amount of time in raising their complaint with 
Aviva and in bringing their complaint to our service. I acknowledge their inconvenience in 
doing so and appreciate that this has taken up a lot of everyones time. But, on balance, Im 
satisfied that the compensation Aviva has already paid is a reasonable amount of 
compensation thats proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that Mr and Mrs G would 
have been caused here. That sum fairly recognises the impact Avivas errors had. Its in line 
with our approach in similar scenarios and its what I would have told Aviva to pay had no 
compensation been offered.
I appreciate they want Aviva to pay more compensation. But I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that a higher award is warranted here. So, I wont be asking it to increase that 
amount or do anymore here.
I realise Mr and Mrs G feel very strongly about the issues raised in their complaint and I 
know theyll be disappointed with this decision. But I think Aviva has dealt with this complaint 
fairly and done all it can to resolve this dispute. So, Im not going to ask it to do anymore 
here
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr and Mrs Gs dispute with Aviva 
informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant help Mr and Mrs G any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman