DRN-3882208
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy Metro Bank PLC hasnt reimbursed funds she lost to a safe account scam.
What happened
On 5 January 2022, Ms D received a call from someone she believed was Metro. They 
convinced her that her account was compromised, and she needed to move her funds. Ms D 
was sent a text with a link to re-register for her Metro account and while on the phone she 
understood that she was providing information so a new, secure account could be set up for 
her.
Ms D now understands that by following this link and the steps on the webpage, she gave 
the scammers access to her bank account. At the time she thought it was Metro who had 
access and she was agreeing for them to make the payment in question to protect these 
funds.
Ms D reported the scam to Metro the next day when the transferred funds didnt appear in 
her account. She went into her local Metro branch and spoke to a staff member there about 
what had happened. And then had a call with Metro about the scam on 14 January 2022 and 
it was left Metro would investigate. Metro called her back to discuss the scam and Ms D 
returned this call on 18 January 2022, but didnt want to speak to the same agent. She 
asked if someone else could look at her case and the agent said no, so she said she would 
be raising a complaint and would continue the case in writing. 
Metro issued a final response to her complaint in July 2022. It said that it wouldnt be 
upholding Ms Ds complaint. It said the fraud team needed more information to take matters 
further. Ms D then asked our service to continue with its investigation. Our investigator 
upheld Ms Ds complaint. Metro asked for an ombudsman to review this outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro Bank has asked for a final decision on this case as it doesnt agree with our opinion, 
due to the fact it says it wasnt able to complete an investigation. It hasnt provided any 
merits reasons why it disagrees with the outcome itself, but did say to us its fraud team 
considers no refund is due, suggesting they did investigate. 
Ms D went into a Metro Bank branch as well as having a call with Metro about what 
happened to her. So while I accept she didnt want to continue with the call on 18 January 
2022, I think Metro had enough information to complete an investigation. At this time it chose 
not to investigate based on the information it did hold and just asked Ms D to contact it again 
to provide more information.
Since then we have provided Ms Ds complaint form and our assessment on the case. Metro 
hasnt shared any further investigation its completed into this case, but as the time it has to 
consider the complaint has passed, Im satisfied it is appropriate for our service to issue a 
decision.
The payee name used for the scam payment was Ms Ds business. She doesnt hold a 
business account with the bank this payment went to, so Im satisfied she didnt receive 
these funds, but the scammer cleverly used her business name for the payment.
I can see from Metros file that it thinks its most likely Ms D has authorised the £1,225 
payment, but has fallen victim to a scam. And I agree. Its clear from her call with Metro 
thats shes fallen victim to a safe account scam and has agreed for her funds to be moved 
to another account in order to protect them. I dont think Ms D is arguing that this transaction 
is unauthorised, she clearly says in the call that the expected payment hasnt arrived in her 
account. So she was expecting for this money to be moved, but her issue is it hasnt gone to 
her and instead was paid to someone elses account with another bank.
Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (the code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. So Ive considered whether 
Ms D is due a refund. 
I consider the key, limited circumstances I need to set out in this case are: where Ms D 
wouldnt be due a refund as Metro showed her an effective warning she ignored; or where 
she had no reasonable basis for belief in what was going on. 
Our investigator focussed their assessment on Ms Ds basis for belief, which isnt 
unreasonable considering Metro hasnt argued it did show Ms D an effective warning. It has 
in fact told us it cant determine which warning it showed her when the payment was made, 
so provided seven different ones in use at the time of the payment.
Considering this, I dont think Metro could successfully apply this exception, as the code sets 
out that the warning should be specific, tailored to the risk identified. Many of these dont 
relate at all to the situation Ms D was in and if it doesnt know what she saw, I cant see how 
it could say what it did show was an effective warning in this case.
Ive then considered whether Ms D had a reasonable basis for belief, as set out in the code. 
In her call with Metro, Ms D explains the way the caller convinced her they were Metro, 
explaining about a new direct debit she did have and asking her to complete security steps 
akin to those she did complete with Metro. The caller also sent her a text message with a 
website to set up her new secure account. I can see that this text appeared in the same 
chain as genuine messages from Metro  as the passcode later needed to make the 
payment in question is shown below the scam link.
Taking into account Ms Ds testimony and the evidence Ive seen; I do consider she had a 
reasonable basis for belief  and so the exception relating to this also doesnt apply. There 
are other exceptions listed in the code, but I dont consider I need to cover them here as they 
arent relevant to Ms Ds situation  and theres no allegation she was grossly negligent in 
any way. As no exceptions apply, she is due a full refund under the code.
Putting things right
I direct Metro Bank PLC to:
Refund Ms D the £1,225 lost as a result of this scam
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund from the 18 January 2022, when it closed her claim until the date of settlement
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman