DRN-3303243
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Mobile Money Limited (MML) was irresponsible to have agreed 
credit for him.
 
What happened
MML provided Mr S with a loan of £1,000 in June 2017. The total amount of £2,094, 
including interest and charges, was to repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £116 (all figures 
rounded).
This was a log book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Mr S provided 
MML with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if he didnt make his loan repayments 
MML could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of his vehicle. 
I understand Mr S didnt manage to meet his repayments from the outset and fell into 
arrears. The statement of account shows weekly payments of £50 in April, May and June of 
2018. No payments were recorded from 8 June 2018. By January 2019 MML had recovered 
and sold Mr Ss car and credited the sale proceeds to the loan account. This left an 
outstanding balance of over £1,700.
Mr S said that MML didnt ask for sufficient documentation before lending to him, for 
example he wasnt asked to provide his bank statements. Had MML done so it would have 
seen that he gambled large amounts of money and wouldnt have agreed to lend to him. 
Mr S also says that he was struggling with his mental health at the time and taking out this 
loan had a disastrous impact on him. He says that he has now repaid over 95% of the capital 
he borrowed and the outstanding balance is interest owing. He would like MML to close his 
account and remove all record of the loan from his credit file. 
MML doesnt agree that it was irresponsible to have agreed a loan for Mr S and that it 
carried out proportionate checks before doing so. It says it asked him for proof of income 
and while there was some adverse information on his credit file it wasnt unusual to see this 
from its applicants. MML says that it recovered and sold Mr Ss car as a last resort following 
a prolonged period of no contact from him. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint and didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. They found that MML had carried out proportionate checks before lending to Mr S 
and it didnt find anything that should have caused concern. They concluded that MML 
wasnt irresponsible to lend to Mr S. Mr S didnt accept this recommendation and asked for 
his complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve.  
MML has confirmed that as of May 2022 the outstanding balance is over £1,600 and that it is 
willing to offer a short settlement of £571 which, if paid in full, would settle and close the 
account. Mr S says that he is in a repayment plan with MML for about £40 a month and 
cannot afford to repay the offer amount in full. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MML will be aware of the relevant rules and regulations, so I will summarise its obligations. 
Before agreeing credit for Mr S, MML needed to check that he could afford to meet his 
repayments sustainably, in other words out of his usual means without having to borrow 
further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The 
checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and to Mr Ss circumstances.
The regulations in place at the time stated that a lender needed to take steps to ensure that 
the information it relied on was complete and correct and must not accept an application for 
credit where it suspects the consumer has not been truthful. The overarching requirement 
was that MML needed to pay due regard to Mr Ss interests and treat him fairly. CONC 
2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this requirement as targeting customers with 
regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness, 
poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
Having considered everything, I have decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I appreciate 
that this will be very disappointing for him and I hope the following clearly explains how Ive 
made my decision. 
MML spoke with Mr S several times to discuss the details of his application, including what 
hed said about his income and expenditure. Mr S told MML that he was self-employed and 
had recently finished one contract and started another. Mr S provided a letter from his 
current contractor dated 9 June 2017 as proof. This set out his rate of pay and the contract 
duration. Mr S also provided a payslip dated 19 June 2017 which confirmed a gross weekly 
pay of £690, and an amount of £552 net of 20% deduction for tax purposes. He explained to 
MML on a call that he worked under CIS (the Construction Industry Scheme) where 
contractors deduct money from subcontractors, such as himself, to pay directly to HMRC. 
Mr S says that MML knew he was self-employed and should have checked his accounts, tax 
returns or his bank statements before lending to him. However, Mr S had told MML that he 
was paid under CIS, which his payslip confirmed so I dont think MML ought to have been 
concerned about future tax payments. Altogether, I think it did enough to check that Mr Ss 
income was as hed said.
MML provided a copy of the credit file report it used in its assessment. This showed that 
Mr S had about £1,300 of existing debt, most of which was in default. Mr S had three 
defaulted accounts from 2014, a credit card default from early 2016 and a recent defaulted 
current account. MML asked Mr  about these and he explained that the outstanding balance 
owing on the recently defaulted current account (£166) was due to bank charges which he 
disputed and that he was repaying one of the other debts via a county court judgement for 
£454 awarded in May 2016. I think MML was right to ask about these more recent defaults 
because if Mr S was having problems managing his money at the time then it might mean 
hed have problems meeting his repayments for this loan in a sustainable manner. Given 
Mr Ss explanation and the relatively small amounts involved, I think MML did enough here 
to consider this risk to Mr S. 
Mr S said that he had no dependents, that he lived with his parents and paid them a fixed 
amount of £20 a week to cover his household expenses. The credit file search that MML 
conducted confirmed his address and that he lived with family. It seems reasonable to 
accept that Mr S might have had fewer household costs than someone in other 
circumstances and his credit file showed he had very little active debt. Mr Ss main costs  were mobile and internet charges, car, food, clothes, and entertainment. He told MML that 
he spent about £600 a month on entertainment, which included socialising and eating out. 
MML estimated that Mr S had about £460 left over each month. 
MML asked Mr S on a call whether he had any other expenses as this seemed to be a 
relatively large monthly surplus. Mr S explained that he spent his money on socialising and 
holidays. He said he went on holidays several times a year and was borrowing to finance his 
next holiday as hed had about four weeks of not working between contracts. I understand 
that Mr S had initially provided payslips from his previous contract to MML before it asked 
him for proof of his current contract. So there wasnt anything in the information it had which 
contradicted his explanation. 
Bearing in mind that Mr S could potentially lose his car if he was unable to meet his 
repayments over the loan term, I think MML was right to ask Mr S to verify the information he 
provided. I think MML took reasonable steps to verify Mr Ss income and his existing credit 
commitments. From the information Ive seen the loan repayments would have appeared 
affordable for Mr S and they were not so high relative to his income that there was a clear 
risk he wouldnt be able to meet them over the loan term while meeting his other 
commitments. While there were some indicators of financial difficulty in the information MML 
gathered, it had asked Mr S more about these and his explanation was plausible. Altogether, 
I dont think the level or management of Mr Ss existing debts would have caused concern 
for MML to the extent that it should have declined to lend to him or carried out further 
investigation before doing so. 
Taking everything into account, I have come to the conclusion that the checks MML carried 
out on this occasion were proportionate and there wasnt enough of concern in the 
information it gathered which should have prompted it to make further enquiries of Mr S 
before lending to him. I dont find it was irresponsible to lend on this occasion and so I am 
not upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S has told us about his mental health and explained that at that time he had a severe 
addition to gambling. I dont doubt what hes shared with us and let me say at this point that I 
am sorry things have been so difficult for him. As mentioned earlier, MML has offered to 
reduce the outstanding balance considerably if Mr S is able to repay in full. Mr S says he is 
unable to do this. I would remind MML of its obligations to treat Mr S fairly and with due 
consideration and forbearance, bearing in mind it is now aware of his serious mental health 
difficulties.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint about Mobile Money 
Limited and so dont require it to pay him compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman