DRN-2661775
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against Skipton Building Society is about investments they were 
advised to make in 2006.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs S met a Skipton adviser three times in 2006. Mr and Mrs S wanted to discuss 
how to invest a compensation award Mr S had received after he was involved in an accident.  
Following the advisers recommendation, Mr and Mrs S invested a total of £106,000 in four 
distribution bonds and £7,000 in each of two maxi ISAs.
Mr and Mrs S complain that they were given unsuitable advice. They say they were advised 
to invest too high a proportion of their available funds and that the products recommended 
carried too high a risk for inexperienced investors. They also said the adviser should have 
discussed paying off their mortgage.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. He thought Mr and Mrs S had been 
advised to invest too much and explained what Skipton should do to put things right. 
Skipton disagree and have asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
my provisional decision
I gave my provisional decision in February 2021.
I said that before making their recommendations, Skipton should have considered Mr and 
Mrs Ss financial situation, their knowledge and experience of investing, and their objectives. 
They should have taken account of Mr and Mrs Ss attitude to risk, their purpose in investing, 
and how long they wanted to invest for. 
At the time of the advice Mr S was working part time and Mrs S full time. They had both 
been with their employers for at least 10 years. They had three dependent children and 
expected that to remain the case for another five years. Mr S was planning to retire in about 
10 years time and Mrs S in about 15 years time. They said they had no medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs Ss annual income from employment was around £20,000. They had £145,204 
in an account with Skipton following the compensation payment to Mr S. They held £10,000 
each in premium savings bonds, and investments in an equity plan and shares totalling 
about £5,000.  
Mr and Mrs S told the adviser their priority was to invest the lump sum theyd received. 
They wanted to achieve capital growth at a higher rate than in a deposit account, with the 
flexibility to draw income in the future if they needed to. 
Mr and Mrs S complained that the adviser didnt discuss repaying their mortgage. 
But according to the paperwork the adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs S repay their 
loans. Their outstanding mortgage was about £5,000 and there was a note suggesting it was 
agreed to reduce it to a minimal balance. So I thought Mr and Mrs S were given suitable 
advice on that point. 
The adviser recorded Mr and Mrs Ss attitude to risk as medium (low) risk, which was the 
third lowest of seven risk categories. The description of that risk rating said:
Investments that provide no capital guarantee and therefore capital loss could occur. 
However, these investments attempt to reduce risk to capital, for example by 
investing in different asset classes or by employing a safety net mechanism. The 
probability of a moderate loss of capital is medium and the probability of a significant 
loss of capital is very low to low.
The adviser said that was an increase in Mr and Mrs Ss risk tolerance. He noted that they 
did have some experience of investing  their equity plan and shares, and a previous 
endowment policy. And he explained the investments would be spread across a mix of asset 
classes to reduce risk. 
The adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs S invest £120,000 across different products that 
were medium (low) risk. They invested a total of £14,000 in two ISAs and £26,500 in each of 
four different distribution bonds. 
The funds and bonds were made up of a mix of equities, fixed interest securities, property 
and cash. Although Skipton had been unable to provide detailed information on the asset 
mix of all Mr and Mrs Ss investments, about 60% of the ISAs was held in equities. Based on 
what Id seen I thought the other parts of the portfolio would have offered a similar level of 
investment in equities. 
The adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs S retain an emergency fund of about £46,000 
on short term deposit. That included the £20,000 they held in premium savings bonds and 
the remaining £25,000 from the compensation award. Mr and Mrs S told the adviser they 
had no lump sum expenditure plans. So, I thought they had sufficient funds accessible for 
any unexpected expenditure. 
Mr and Mrs S wanted to achieve a higher rate of growth then they would in a deposit 
account. The adviser noted that Mr and Mrs S were willing to take the increased risk of 
investing in non-deposit areas which are not guaranteed and will fluctuate over 5 years and 
longer.
But the investments recommended also carried the risk of capital loss. Mr and Mrs S were 
investing £120,000, which was more than 80% of the compensation payment. Taking 
account of their existing savings and investments, the advisers recommendations meant 
that more than 70% of Mr and Mrs Ss available funds would be at risk of capital losses. 
Based on their circumstances at the time, I thought Mr and Mrs S would have had little 
capacity to recoup any losses from their investments. And I thought the adviser should have 
given greater weight to that in recommending to Mr and Mrs S how much they should invest 
at the level of risk they did.  
Overall, I thought too much of Mr and Mrs Ss money was exposed to the risk of capital 
losses that theyd be unable to replace. I thought they were given unsuitable advice and so I 
said I was planning to uphold their complaint.
In deciding what Skipton should do to put things right, my provisional findings were different 
to those of our investigator. I thought Mr and Mrs S were given unsuitable advice because 
their money was exposed to more risk than it should have been. So, I thought Skipton 
should calculate compensation by comparing the performance of the whole investment against the benchmark I set out.
responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs S did not offer any comments on my provisional decision. Skipton submitted 
again some comments they provided in response to our investigators view, which Ive 
considered below.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Skipton have said the amount Mr and Mrs S invested 
was in line with their guidelines at the time. As Mr and Mrs S had some experience of 
investing, it was fair to recommend that more than 50% of their funds be held in equities. 
And as Mr and Mrs S had received a large lump sum, they would continue to have more 
cash on deposit than they were used to.
Ive considered again the points made by Skipton. As I said in my provisional decision, Im 
satisfied that Skiptons advice left Mr and Mrs S with sufficient funds accessible for any 
unexpected expenditure that might arise. But the advisers recommendations meant that 
more than 70% of Mr and Mrs Ss available funds would be at risk of capital losses. 
Based on their circumstances at the time, I think Mr and Mrs S would have had little capacity 
to recoup any losses from their investments. And I think the adviser should have given 
greater weight to that in recommending how much Mr and Mrs S should invest at the level of 
risk they did.  
My findings therefore remain the same as in my provisional decision. Overall, I think too 
much of Mr and Mrs Ss money was exposed to the risk of capital losses that theyd be 
unable to replace. I think they were given unsuitable advice and so Ive decided to uphold 
their complaint. Skipton should calculate compensation in the way set out below, as 
described in my provisional decision.     
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr and Mrs S as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice.
I think Mr and Mrs S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what 
they would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr and Mrs S's circumstances and objectives when they invested. 
What should Skipton do? 
To compensate Mr and Mrs S fairly, Skipton must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs S's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Skipton should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Whole 
portfolio - 2 
ISAs and 4 
distribution 
bonds 
surrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Skipton should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum that Mr and Mrs S paid into the investment should be added to the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Skipton totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs S wanted capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. 
It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr and Mrs S's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they were 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs S into that position. It does not 
mean that Mr and Mrs S would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate bond 
and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs S could have obtained 
from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude. 
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint 
against Skipton Building Society.
Skipton Building Society should put things right in the way Ive set out above. They should 
provide details of their calculation to Mr and Mrs S in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman