DRN-1955207
The complaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank plc hasnt provided a refund of interest paid on his mortgage.
What happened
Mr D received a letter from TSB following IT issues experienced by the bank in 2018. Mr D 
understood the letter to mean he would receive a refund of interest hed paid on his 
mortgage while the bank was having IT problems.
He didnt receive the refund and complained to TSB. The bank said the waiver of interest 
and charges referred to in its letter were in connection with overdraft and current accounts, 
rather than mortgage accounts. It paid £100 for the delay in responding to Mr Ds complaint 
and £50 to cover any costs. Mr D wasnt happy with TSBs response, so he referred the 
matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He wasnt persuaded the 
waiver of interest and charges referred to in TSBs letter applied to Mr Ds account. So he 
didnt consider the bank had to refund any interest. The investigator considered the 
compensation paid by TSB was fair in the circumstances.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive looked carefully at the letter Mr D received following TSBs IT problems. I understand 
this was sent to all of TSBs customers. The relevant section says:
We are waiving all overdraft fees and interest charges incurred in March and April.
Were conscious that the problems our customers have been having accessing their 
accounts over the last week may have caused them to go overdrawn.
We are helping to address this by waiving any overdraft fees and interest charges as well as 
any returned fees you may incur during both your April and May billing periods
I think the letter is clear enough to make customers aware that the fees and interest it was 
refunding were in connection with becoming overdrawn as a result of the IT issues. There is 
nothing to suggest that TSB would refund interest that had been correctly charged on a 
mortgage account like Mr Ds.
Given the scale of the IT problems TSB experienced I dont think it was unreasonable for it 
to write to all of its customers, with a view to resolving matters as quickly as possible.
I can see how it might have been frustrating for Mr D to receive a letter that didnt apply to 
him, but Im not persuaded that the letter can be interpreted to mean that he was entitled to a 
refund of mortgage interest.
I think the compensation TSB has paid is reasonable, but I wont be asking it to do anything 
else.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman