DRN-3221825
The complaint
Mrs J complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
have unfairly declined her business interruption claim. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons Ive 
set out below. I also note that Mrs J had requested a phone call from me before issuing a 
decision. However, I didnt consider this to be necessary in the circumstances, as she has 
made her position and arguments quite clear in the previous submissions she has made to 
this service, which Ive taken into account when deciding this complaint.
Roof damage 
Accidental damage claims are covered under the policy, but are subject to the following 
exclusions set out in the policy terms and conditions:
Damage arising from;
b) inherent vice, latent defect, gradual deterioration, frost, wear and tear, faulty or 
defective design or materials, other than subsequent DAMAGE which arises from a 
cause not otherwise excluded
DAMAGE to:
a) Any building or structure arising from its own collapse or cracking, but WE will 
not exclude subsequent DAMAGE which results from a cause which is not 
otherwise excluded.
It has been accepted that repairs to Mrs Js unsafe chimney stack are not covered under the 
policy due to its gradual deterioration over time. But she submits that the damage to her roof 
has been caused by the rotation of the chimney stack and so would constitute subsequent 
damage under the policy terms. 
I understand that the roof tiles may not have been damaged at the exact moment the 
chimney became unsafe, as the deterioration had occurred gradually over time, such that 
the damage to the roof tiles could be considered as subsequent. However, subsequent 
damage is still only covered under the policy if it arises from a cause that is not otherwise 
excluded. It is not in dispute that the damage to the roof tiles has been caused by the 
gradual deterioration of the chimney. But then this would indicate that the damage to the roof 
has also occurred over time, meaning they have gradually moved and deteriorated along 
with the rotating chimney stack. 
The policy excludes gradual deterioration, which was the reason why the chimney stack 
itself was not covered under the policy. And given theres no other definable cause or event 
that could be said to have damaged the roof tiles other than gradual deterioration, it follows 
that this damage is also excluded. Therefore, even if it was subsequent, it would not be 
covered by the policy because it results from a cause that is excluded. 
Business interruption
Mrs J submits that her business losses should be covered under the Public Emergency 
extension of her business interruption cover as her shop and residential dwelling (which she 
lets out to tenants) were inaccessible due to the pavement being cordoned off while repairs 
were carried out to the chimney. This section of cover sets out:
We will pay for loss of INCOME arising from the actions or advice of a competent 
Public Authority, due to an emergency likely to endanger life or property occurring 
within the vicinity of the PREMISES, which prevents or hinders the use of or access 
to the PREMISES for a period greater than four consecutive hours.
The term vicinity isnt defined by the policy, so Ive construed the term in line with its natural 
meaning, of which a common definition is the area near to or surrounding a particular place, 
or something that is close in proximity. However, the emergency in this instance had 
occurred on the property itself, not in the vicinity of it. 
Mrs J has said that the pavement outside of her premises had to be cordoned off, which is in 
the vicinity of the premises, and should therefore be covered. But having considered the 
public emergency extension, Im not persuaded the requirements for cover have been met. 
Mrs J was told by engineers that the premises would need to be vacated on 8 October 2020 
as it was unsafe. She was subsequently issued with a dangerous structure notice by the 
local authority on 26 October 2020. But it was not the local authority that had imposed the 
closure of the pavement outside Mrs Js premises, or indeed the premises itself; they only 
demanded that she make the structure safe as soon as possible.
I understand that the repairs hindered access to the premises when the pavement was 
cordoned off. But the emergency had not occurred on the pavement; it occurred at the 
property itself (which cant be said to be within the vicinity of the premises for the reasons 
Ive already set out). The wording of the public emergency extension does not provide cover 
for an emergency occurring at the property  only within its surrounding or neighbouring 
areas.
So, while I accept that the pavement may be in the vicinity of the premises, the emergency 
likely to endanger life or property (i.e. the unsafe chimney) had not occurred there; the 
pavements closure was simply a precautionary measure taken while the emergency was 
attended to. It also wasnt the emergency that prevented the use or access of the premises, 
(as is a requirement of the policy). It was the closure of the pavement that hindered access, 
and this had not been ordered by the local authority. Therefore, I dont consider NFU have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably be declining to cover the claim for these reasons.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs J, who feels she has been treated 
unfairly. I also sympathise with her position due to the impact this has had on her financially 
and emotionally. But an insurer can only be expected to cover a claim if the policy wording 
provides for it. And in this instance, the circumstances of her claim fall outside the scope of 
NFUs cover, and I note that the insurer also received legal advice from their panel solicitors 
in this respect. So, NFU are entitled to decline to indemnity for Mrs Js losses in these 
circumstances. It follows that I will not be directing them to take any further action. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman