DRN-2859334
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt take his overseas residency into account 
and give him additional time to respond when closing his account on the basis of dormancy. 
What happened
Mr T had an account with Barclays that hadnt been used for some time. In September 2020, 
Barclays wrote to Mr T at his overseas address and advised that Mr Ts account would be 
closed on the basis that it was a dormant account if Mr T hadnt contacted them by mid-
November 2020. 
Unfortunately, postal limitations in the country in which Mr T resides meant that Mr T didnt 
receive this letter until mid-December, at which time Mr T contacted Barclays and asked 
what could be done to maintain the account. Mr T was advised that the account was still 
open but was due to close on the basis of dormancy soon. Mr T was also advised that if he 
made a withdrawal from the account at a local ATM, that action would mean that the account 
wouldnt be considered dormant and wouldnt be closed. 
Mr T couldnt make a withdrawal from the account at a local ATM because he hadnt been 
sent a replacement bank card by Barclays when his last one had expired. So, Mr T 
requested a replacement bank card, but when the card arrived, Mr T discovered that the 
account had already been closed by Barclays as a dormant account. Mr T wasnt happy 
about this, so he made a complaint. 
Barclays looked at Mr Ts complaint, but they felt that they had followed the dormant account 
process appropriately and they noted that they hadnt sent a replacement bank card to Mr T 
when the last one had expired because the last card hadnt been used by Mr T for more than 
six months prior to the card expiring. Because of this, Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ts 
complaint.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with Barclays response and felt that Barclays should have taken his 
overseas residency into consideration and given him more time to respond before closing his 
account. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Barclays had 
followed the account dormancy process fairly, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how it must have frustrating for Mr T to have received a letter from 
Barclays advising him that he needed to take action by a certain date, only to discover that 
the date by which he needed to take action had already passed by the time the letter had 
reached him.
However, the reason that Mr T received the letter late wasnt because Barclays didnt post 
the letter in a timely manner, but rather because Mr T lived overseas and because of the 
limitations of the postal service in the country in which Mr T resides.
Mr T doesnt dispute that Barclays followed the correct process with regard the closing of his 
dormant account. But Mr T does feel that Barclays should have taken his overseas 
residency into account and should have provided Mr T with additional time to respond before 
closing the account. Additionally, Mr T is also unhappy that Barclays didnt send him a 
replacement bank card when the previous card expired, which ultimately meant that Mr T 
wasnt able to access his account using a bank card in order to maintain the account and 
prevent it from being closed under the dormant accounts process.
I can appreciate Mr Ts frustrations here. But in essence this is a complaint about which 
party  Barclays or Mr T  should be considered responsible for monitoring the status of Mr 
Ts account and taking action to ensure that the account is appropriately maintained.
Ultimately, I feel that it was incumbent on Mr T, as an overseas resident wanting to maintain 
a UK account, to ensure that he was monitoring and maintaining his Barclays account, and I 
dont feel that Barclays have treated Mr T unfairly or unreasonably by following the dormant 
account closure process in the manner that they have here.
And while I can understand that Mr T feels that he wasnt given the opportunity to respond 
effectively given that it took so long for letters sent by Barclays to reach him, I dont feel that 
this is something that Barclays necessarily need to take into account, but rather is something 
that Mr T himself should have been aware of and taken steps to mitigate.
For instance, Barclays have confirmed that the letters that they issued were available to Mr T 
online, and while Mr T has stated that he wasnt aware of this, this again appears to be an 
example of Mr T not monitoring the account rather than an instance of Barclays not providing 
Mr T with necessary information.
Mr T has expressed his dissatisfaction that Barclays didnt furnish him with a replacement 
bank card. But Mr Ts old bank card expired in 2015, and Mr T only realised that he didnt 
have a bank card when he needed to use it in 2020 - as described above. Again, its difficult 
not to conclude that Mr T wasnt monitoring and maintaining his account given that the 
absence of a bank card appears to have gone unnoticed by Mr T for several years. And 
indeed, Mr T has confirmed that the account had been largely neglected.
So, its difficult for me to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr T in their actions here, and I feel that its more the case that Mr T didnt maintain and 
monitor his account, or indeed use the account at all, for a considerable period of time  
which led eventually to the account being closed by Barclays on the basis of dormancy.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr T was wanting, but it follows from this that I 
wont be upholding Mr Ts complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action at this 
time. I hope that Mr T can understand, given what I have explained above, why I have made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman