DRN-4285084
The complaint
Mrs G has complained about British Gas Insurance Limited. She isnt happy about the way it 
dealt with a claim under her home emergency insurance policy and the poor service she 
received.  
What happened
Mrs G made a claim under her home emergency insurance policy in relation to issues she 
had with her boiler stemming from around at least 2021. And she had to have a number of 
further visits from British Gas engineers after this. And Mrs G was concerned to be told by 
one of British Gas engineers that the previous engineer had done a poor repair. 
When Mrs G complained about this and the poor service provided it offered £100 
compensation and then a further £120 compensation (£220 total) in acknowledgement of the 
poor service provided. But Mrs G remained unhappy and complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs G and upheld her complaint. He was persuaded 
by Mrs Gs account that she had received a very poor service and that one of its engineers 
undertook a very poor repair (they had left the boiler leaking and left a blue tissue to soak up 
water from the leak). Given this and Mrs Gs difficult personal circumstances he thought the 
level of compensation should be lifted to £750 compensation. And he thought it should 
consider any expert evidence Mrs G provides in relation to any consequential damage to the 
boiler, surrounding area or fittings if she has future problems that couldve been caused by 
the poor repair. 
As British Gas didnt agree, mainly questioning the impact any poor repair would have had, 
the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas appears to accept that it got a fair bit wrong in dealing with Mrs Gs claim when it 
offered £220 in compensation. And even when our investigator advanced his view it has 
focussed on whether the poor repair could have an impact on any consequential problems 
with the boiler in the main. 
Ive looked at all the evidence in relation to the claim and how British Gas engineers dealt 
with it. It is accepted that the claim was unnecessarily drawn out through 2021 and 2022 and 
Mrs G should be compensated for this. However, Mrs G has also explained that one of 
British Gas engineers highlighted how a previous repair was of a very poor standard. 
Indeed, it could be argued that the poor repair was dangerous. Although it is difficult to 
establish exactly what happened Im persuaded by the consistent account provided by Mrs 
G about this and it must have been very worrying and stressful for her. And so, I agree the 
compensation level should be lifted to £750 especially given the difficult personal 
circumstances Mrs G faced at that time.
Finally, I can understand why British Gas has questioned what did and didnt happen during 
the various attendances and whether the work that was undertaken could affect any 
consequential damage to the boiler and surrounding area. However, it is possible that the 
poor workmanship and allowance of a continued leak by one of its engineers has impacted 
things here but Mrs G would have to provide evidence of this and any impact British Gas 
repairs may have had if she has future problems. So, I dont think I need to address this any 
further now. I would just expect British Gas to consider this and any evidence Mrs G 
provides if she has problems in the future. 
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case is for British Gas to pay £750 compensation. And to consider any evidence Mrs G 
provides if she has any further difficulty with her boiler and the surrounding area that could 
have stemmed from British Gas engineers poor repairs.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think British Gas Insurance Limited should pay 
£750 compensation. And consider any expert evidence Mrs G provides in relation to any 
consequential damage to the boiler, surrounding area, or fittings if she has future problems. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman