DRN-1642068
The complaint
Miss B complains about London General Insurance Company Limiteds (LGI) repair under 
her phone insurance policy. My references to LGI include its agents.
What happened
Miss B had an insurance policy which covered her iPhone for accidental damage, LGI was 
the insurer. In August 2019 Miss B claimed on the policy for her phones accidental damage. 
LGI repaired the cracked screen and returned the phone to her. In October 2019 Miss B 
contacted LGI as the phone wasnt working properly. LGIs repairer found the previous part 
had failed, fitted a new display to the phone and the phone was returned to Miss B in 
November. 
In January 2020 Miss B contacted LGI to say the phones touch screen wasnt working and 
the screen had cracked when the phone had been dropped. The policy had ended in mid 
November 2019 so LGI said the phone wasnt covered for accidental damage. LGI believed 
the phones problems were due to the cracked screen and not due to Miss Bs suggestion 
that it had put in a defective screen for the November repair.
Miss B said shed been told she had an additional warranty in place to protect the screen if it 
had defects. LGI said it did provide a 90 day re-call period on the replacement parts fitted to 
a phone during a repair if a part was defective. But that didnt cover the phones problems 
due to accidental damage. It apologised if Miss B had been given confusing information.
Miss B complained to us. She said when the insurance policy was due to end she'd asked 
for additional cover and bought an additional six months warranty. She also said shed sent 
a report from the one of the stores of the phone manufacturer which stated the cracked 
screen didnt cause the problem, which LGI ignored. Miss B told us that LGIs decision not to 
repair the phone had badly affected her at an already difficult time.
Our investigator explained why he thought LGI had acted fairly and reasonably.
Miss B disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said the phone worked for 
months after the screen cracked but when she used wet fingers on the phone it stopped 
working so the screen must be defective.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Miss Bs difficulties and to disappoint her as Im not upholding her 
complaint. 
I have to decide whether LGI acted fairly and reasonably in not repairing her phone, and 
I think it did. Ill explain why.
Miss Bs insurance policy, which covered accidental damage to her phone, ended in 
November 2019. So there was no policy cover for the damage she told LGI about in 
January 2020. Ive seen no evidence that Miss B told LGI about that accidental damage 
sooner. LGI fairly said there was no policy for her to claim against.
Miss B said she was sold an additional warranty, after the policy ended, for cover if her 
phone screen had a defect. LGI said she wasnt sold a warranty. Our investigator told Miss B 
that if she had evidence to show LGI had sold her such a warranty we would take the 
evidence into consideration, but Miss Bs provided no evidence. LGI apologised if Miss B 
had been given confusing information about what the re-call provision covered, which was 
reasonable. The re-call provisions didnt cover problems due to accidental damage.
I think LGI reasonably understood that the problems with the phone were more likely than 
not caused by the cracked screen rather than a defective screen replacement.
LGIs repairer says the damage to Miss Bs phone screen could have affected the layer of 
the screen which is responsible for its touch functionality which would cause the faults she 
reported.
Ive seen an email from the phone manufacturer to LGI which says that it couldnt identify if 
the issues with Miss Bs phone were caused by a manufacturing defect, or the accidental 
damage. So the phone manufacturer didnt tell LGI the cracked screen wasnt the problem.
Miss B mentioned that LGI didnt use the phone manufacturers brand screen to do the 
repair, but theres no requirement under the policy that LGI will use branded parts. LGI told 
Miss B that its repairer uses official equipment manufacturer parts on each repair completed 
which meant the screen would be the same standard as a branded screen. Ive no reason to 
think that just because the screen wasnt branded it was defective.
Miss B says the screen had been damaged a few months before it stopped working. But the 
evidence is that she reported the fault with the screen the same time as she first told LGI 
about the damage. Even if the first time the screen didnt work was when Miss B touched it 
with wet fingers Ive no evidence that means the screen was defective, I think its just as 
likely the accidental damage made the screen more susceptible to moisture.
As Im satisfied LGI fairly concluded that the phones problems were probably due to the 
accidental damage it acted reasonably in not repairing Miss Bs phone.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman