DRN-3690578
The complaint
Mr E complains about the advice given by David Stock & Co Limited (DS&C) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him 
and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr E is being represented by a professional third party but for ease of reading this decision 
Ill largely refer to representations as being made by Mr E.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Es employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Es employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
The RAA was signed and confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out 
shortly after. Updated transfer valuations were then provided by the BSPS trustees to 
qualifying members, reflecting the improved funding position  with the cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of Mr Es pension being £119,315.12. And in October 2017 members 
of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them the options to either stay in 
the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits 
elsewhere.
Mr E approached DS&C at the end of October 2017, for advice about his pension. 
DS&C says Mr E attended an educational session on 3 November 2017 where he was 
given general information about a possible transfer. A one-page questionnaire about his 
circumstances was completed on 3 November 2017. This noted he was 39, single and had 
four children. A copy of his transfer valuation was also shared with DS&C at that point.
DS&C has provided a copy of its initial report which was dated 10 November 2017. This 
letter summarised the options available to Mr E and said after speaking to a number of 
members of the BSPS, the majority had chosen to join the BSPS2 or transfer. DS&C said 
Mr E had asked for advice about his pension. It went on to say it had carried out a transfer 
analysis and calculated the critical yield - the level of growth the transferred funds would 
need to achieve each year to enable Mr E to purchase equivalent benefits to those he was 
giving up. It said this was 5.05% which DS&C said it thought was reasonably acceptable. It 
said it had assumed for the purpose of the report that Mr Es attitude to risk would be 
moderate / balanced.
The report went on to say that Mr E was interested in transferring having received his CETV. 
It summarised the position regarding the BSPS entering the PPF and its charges. It also 
said, if the challenges of transferring were acceptable to Mr E, DS&C could recommend a 
pension from several providers, but DS&C favoured a specific adviser. The letter concluded 
by saying on receipt of the transferred funds DS&C would hold a meeting to discuss 
investments. And if the report met with Mr Es approval it would arrange a meeting to 
complete the relevant paperwork.
A meeting then appears to have been arranged for 17 November 2017. DS&C has provided 
a copy of a fact-finding document completed at that meeting. The document allowed for 
significantly more detail than the previous one-page questionnaire.  But the fact-find was 
only partially completed. It again recorded that Mr E was 39, single with four children and 
also said he was in good health and employed full time. The sections in the fact find to 
record information about Mr Es income and expenditure were struck through and left blank. 
Nor was anything recorded about any savings or assets that Mr E held. It was noted he had 
a credit card with an outstanding balance of £400 but no other liabilities were recorded.
The section about pensions indicated that in addition to the benefits he held in the BSPS, 
Mr E was also a member of his employers new defined contribution (DC) pension. But there 
was nothing recorded about its value, or the level of contributions being made. Another 
pension provider was also referenced, but the nature and value of this other policy again 
were left blank.
The fact-find said Mr E had requested advice because of a lack of trust in his employer 
regarding the pension. And it suggested he was interested in flexibility and having control of 
his own pension. When he would like to retire and what income he expected to need in 
retirement were also left blank.
The fact-find included sections about Mr Es investment experience, capacity for loss and 
attitude to risk. In the capacity for loss section the word minimal was recorded. The first 
page of the attitude to risk section suggested Mr E had a moderate to speculative attitude. 
But the questions about attitude to risk on the following page were struck through and the 
had written notes indicated instead a cautious attitude to risk.
Application forms were completed on 17 November 2017, to transfer the BSPS benefits to a 
personal pension. I do note that the application for the new pension included an expression 
of wish regarding death benefits which nominated Mr Es partner as the beneficiary. 
Although again he was referred to as being single in the other documents.
Mr E also signed an acknowledgment that hed received advice from DS&C on 17 November 
20178. And Ive seen evidence these applications forms were submitted on 22 November 
2017, with DS&C confirming it had provided Mr E with advice.On 21 December 2017, DS&C sent Mr E another letter. This said it was a suitability report, 
setting out its recommendation. This report said Mr Es objectives were to have flexibility to 
retire before the BSPS allowed and to control his pension savings and use them to help his 
children. It also said an objective was for Mr E to leave his pension savings in his will. And it 
said Mr E had decided to transfer his pension no matter the risks and that his union 
representative had suggested he do so. DS&C said a DB scheme did not offer flexibility 
about when a pension could be taken and would not permit retirement before age 65 other 
than with trustee and employer consent. And even if it did allow early retirement, significant 
actuarial reductions could be applied. The report went on to say that DS&C recommended 
that Mr E transfer his CETV to the pension provider that it previously indicated it favoured. 
And it said Mr E should invest in line with his cautious attitude to risk. The report said before 
making a decision, Mr E should consider what DS&C had said carefully - despite an 
application having already been submitted.
Mr E complained in March 2022 to DS&C about the suitability of the transfer advice. He felt a 
transfer should not have been recommended. 
DS&C didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. It said it had established information about Mr Es 
circumstances and established after discussion that he was a cautious investor. It believed it 
had made a suitable recommendation as this would allow Mr E to retire early and addressed 
his intention of wanting to transfer away from the BSPS. And it said Mr E was given clear 
information about the relevant risks.
Mr E referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
considered the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld. She thought Mr E was 
unlikely to improve on the benefits he was giving up by transferring and that there werent 
any other reasons that meant transferring was in Mr Es best interests. She noted he was a 
long way from being able to retire, so his plans were not likely to be finalised. She felt his 
desire for control had likely been overstated. And the alternative death benefits didnt mean 
a transfer was in his interests, as the pension was intended to provide for Mr Es retirement 
needs. So, she thought DS&C shouldve advised against a transfer. And so recommended 
that DS&C compensate Mr E for any losses caused by the unsuitable advice and pay him 
£200 for the distress hed been caused.
DS&C disagreed and still considered that the advice it gave was suitable and adequate 
warnings about the risks had been provided. It also said the BSPS2 was not confirmed at the 
time of the advice so shouldnt be used as a comparison for redress purposes. It added that 
clients approached it intending to transfer. And it had made the decision that it would not 
make overt recommendations to transfer. It further set out its process and said clients were 
always happy with this.
Mr Es representatives largely agreed with the Investigators findings. But said they didnt 
think making an overall 15% notional deduction from the compensation amount to account 
for income tax was fair as this didnt account for ongoing charges that Mr E may incur.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, noting that the information at the 
time did support that the BSPS2 was likely to go ahead and that they were satisfied Mr E 
would likely have joined this if suitable advice had been given. The complaint was referred 
for an ombudsmans decision.
DS&C later said, without prejudice to its position that the advice was suitable, it had run a 
redress calculation using the methodology set by the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) at the time. Which it said showed that Mr E had not suffered a loss. So, no 
redress was due. In order to settle matters though, it said it would agree to pay the sum the 
Investigator had recommended to address any distress caused.This calculation was shared with Mr E. His representatives said they believed some of the 
information used in the calculation was potentially incorrect.  We informed DS&C of this, but 
it declined to re-run the calculation at that time. 
The regulator has since developed a BSPS-specific redress calculator. The calculator was 
developed for the BSPS consumer redress scheme. But it can still be used to carry out 
calculations in non-scheme cases, like Mr Es complaint with the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. And our Investigator informed both Mr E and DS&C, that if the Ombudsman 
considering the case decided to uphold it, they may require DS&C to calculate any redress 
due using the FCA BSPS-specific calculator.
Mr Es representative said that any redress calculation should be done by an expert actuary, 
because Mr Es transferred BSPS benefits had been combined with other pension 
provisions.
I understand DS&C has said recently that it was willing to re-run a redress calculation using 
the BSPS specific redress calculator. But it has been unsuccessful in obtaining the 
information it requires from Mr Es representatives. As the complaint has not been resolved 
and there remains a dispute, in fairness to all parties, Ill now make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DS&C's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer. These include COBS 19.1.6G in which the FCA states that 
the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, DS&C 
should have only considered recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Es best interests. I think there are issues with the process that DS&C followed here. Its initial report to Mr E 
was issued before any meaningful information about his circumstances or objectives appear 
to have been obtained, and instead talked about what other BSPS members had done, and 
implied Mr E would likely want to do the same. The letter already talked about the process 
for transferring, what would happen next and a preferred personal pension provider. I dont 
think this indicates DS&C started from the position that a transfer was unsuitable for Mr E. 
And I cant see that DS&C had enough information about Mr E to make a recommendation 
about what was in his best interests at that time.
A follow up meeting took place a week later. The further information gathered and recorded 
about his circumstances in the more detailed fact-find appears to have been minimal, with 
large sections of information left blank. Again, it is difficult to say that DS&C had enough 
information to determine that a transfer was in Mr Es best interests. Yet at this meeting a 
positive recommendation to transfer appears to have been made  as relevant application 
forms were all signed at that time. DS&C has said Mr E was in an informed position and 
given time to consider the transfer. But the timeline doesnt appear to support this, as an 
application was completed the same day. And a suitability report, setting out the reasons for 
the recommendation, wasnt provided until over a month after this meeting and after the 
application to transfer had already been submitted.
DS&C has also said that it did not make overt recommendations to transfer and has 
suggested it facilitated what consumers wanted. But it wrote to the BSPS confirming it had 
provided Mr E with professional pension advice. It was recorded as Mr Es financial adviser 
on the application for the personal pension and received commission for this. And the role of 
an adviser, in relation to pension transfers, is to give objective advice about what was in a 
consumers best interests. Not to facilitate something they may have thought they wanted. 
The suitability report was also very clear that DS&Cs recommendation was that a transfer 
met Mr Es needs and objectives and stated, I recommend the transfer value be 
transferred. So, Im satisfied it did recommend a transfer to Mr E.
Notwithstanding these issues with the process followed, having considered all the evidence 
in this case, like our Investigator, Im not satisfied a transfer was in Mr Es best interests or 
that the advice to transfer was suitable. So, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
There was some inconsistency in the information provided about Mr Es attitude to 
risk. The initial report said it assumed his attitude to risk would be moderate / 
balanced and not overly cautious. But that doesnt appear to have been based on 
any actual discussion with Mr E. The fact-find said his capacity for loss was minimal. 
But at different points it indicated both a moderate / speculative and cautious 
attitude to risk. The suitability report made reference to Mr E having both a cautious 
and minimal attitude to risk. And DS&Cs response to the complaint said it was 
established in its discussions with him that he was a cautions investor. And so, on 
balance, I think its fair to say that Mr Es attitude to risk was likely cautious.
DS&C was required, by the regulator to produce a transfer value analysis (TVAS) 
report. One of the pieces of analysis this included was the calculation of critical yields 
 how much Mr Es pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to allow 
him to obtain equivalent benefits at retirement to those provided by his DB scheme. 
Despite it saying that Mr E wanted flexibility to potentially retire early, and this being 
something that the BSPS2 and PPF allowed, DS&C only calculated the critical yield 
to match the benefits payable at age 65. And, only looked at the yield to match the 
full pension available under the scheme  and didnt consider the option to take tax-
free cash and a reduced pension. Which Im satisfied could have been calculated.There would be little point in Mr E giving up the guarantees available to him through 
his DB scheme only to achieve, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. And 
even if the critical yield was achieved consistently year on year, it would only enable 
him to replicate what was being given up.
DS&C said the critical yield to match the full pension the BSPS2 would provide at 
age 65 was 5.05%. And to match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid from that 
age was 4.36%. DS&C said it felt the former was reasonably achievable for someone 
with an attitude to risk of 5 on a scale of 1-10. But as Ive said, Mr E was a cautious 
investor.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 
as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 
2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our 
website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving 
advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. The 
relevant discount rate at the time were 4.6% for 25 years to retirement  relevant if 
Mr E retired at age 65.
Given Mr Es cautious attitude to risk, the discount rate and considering the 
regulators low and medium standard projection rates at the time of 2% and 5% 
respectively I think there was limited scope for Mr E to improve on the benefits the 
PPF wouldve offered from age 65. And I think he was always likely to receive 
benefits of a lower overall value than the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided. And 
if retiring earlier than the normal scheme retirement age was a genuine objective, I 
think he was even more likely to be worse off. Which is because the critical yield at a 
younger age was likely to be higher given benefits would have to be paid for longer 
and the investment horizon to retirement was shorter. 
And the critical yields arent the only thing that, in my view, indicates Mr E would be 
worse off in retirement by transferring. The TVAS estimated that the cost, or pension 
fund value that would be required, to purchase equivalent benefits at age 65 to match 
the full pension the BSPS2 would provide was an estimated £369,469.81. But a 
personalised illustration from the pension provider said that if the mid-rate of growth it 
used was achieved until age 75, the value of the pension was likely to only be 
£197,000. This is significantly below what would be needed to replicate the 
guaranteed benefits that hed given up and was reliant on a further ten years of 
additional growth. So overall, I think Mr E was always likely to be worse off in 
retirement by transferring.
DS&C said Mr E was interested in retiring earlier than the DB scheme would allow. 
So, he wanted flexibility to enable this. And it said in the suitability report that the DB 
scheme was inflexible and would generally not permit this. And even if it did, actuarial 
reductions would apply.
The BSPS2 and PPF wouldve allowed Mr E to access benefits earlier than 65, albeit 
with actuarial reductions. So, while the statements about these reductions was 
broadly correct, I think the way this was presented in the suitability report  that early 
retirement was unlikely - was potentially misleading.But in any event, Mr E was only 39 at the time of the advice. While he may have 
indicated in discussion with DS&C that he aspired to retire early, I dont think any 
thoughts he mightve had on this were finalised. I think, when asked, most people 
would say they would like to do so. But his circumstances, objectives or aims 
couldve changed over the years that followed. 
I also dont think, even if this was discussed, that there was enough information 
gathered to demonstrate that he needed flexibility or that transferring for this purpose 
was in his best interests. There was no information recorded about what age he 
might like to retire or what level of income he might need in retirement. There was 
also no detailed information recorded about his income or expenditure, in order to 
determine if any estimates made about what he might need in retirement were likely 
to be accurate. I appreciate, so far removed from retirement, that it wouldve been 
difficult for Mr E to predict what his needs might be. But this just serves to further 
illustrate that any thoughts he had about potentially retiring early were nothing more 
at that stage than a vague aspiration.
So overall, I think it was too soon for an irreversible decision to transfer out of his DB 
scheme to be considered in his best interests. Particularly when he had the option of 
joining the BSPS2, which wouldve meant he retained the option to transfer out at a 
later date if his circumstances required it.
DS&C said Mr E was interested in using his pension savings to help his children and 
being able to leave these in his will. But a pensions primary purpose is to meet the 
holders needs in retirement. Mr E was young and recorded as being in good health. 
So, there was no reason to believe he wouldnt be reliant on his pension to meet his 
own needs in retirement into his old age. 
I also note that the application for the new personal pension said, in the expression of 
wish section, Mr Es partner should be the beneficiary. DS&C says Mr E didnt 
disclose any details of a partner and said he was single. But given the lack of 
information that seems to have been gathered in general, and the fact this form was 
completed in a meeting with DS&C on 17 November 2017, this arguably shouldve 
been considered. And given Mr E was relatively young, there was still the possibility 
he could marry  in which case the spouses benefits the DB scheme provided 
couldve been useful to his family.
That notwithstanding, overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a 
transfer meant it was in Mr Es best interests. And ultimately DS&C should not have 
encouraged Mr E to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement. 
DS&C has said that Mr E had a lack of trust in his employer given what had 
happened with the pension and wanted to take control. But I cant see that Mr E had 
any investment experience or an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage 
his pension funds on his own. Indeed, the recommendation to transfer appears to 
have been on the understanding he would take ongoing advice about how his 
pension was invested, at a further cost. So, I dont think that having control over his 
pension was a genuine objective for Mr E  it was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from his DB scheme.I dont doubt that Mr E was likely to have been upset by what had happened with his 
pension to that point. Or that he had negative feelings about his employer and 
mightve thought moving his pension away from it was appropriate. I think that would 
have been a very natural emotional response to what was happening. But again, 
DS&Cs role was to give impartial, objective advice. Mr Es employer and pension 
scheme were not one and the same. And Mr E was paying into a new pension 
scheme with his employer. So, the relationship may not have irretrievably broken 
down as suggested. 
Mr E may have held concerns about the prospect of his deferred benefits entering 
the PPF. But there had been a number of key announcements that all pointed toward 
the BSPS2 being established as an alternative. Which was expected to provide 
better benefits than the PPF and still provide Mr E the option to transfer closer to 
retirement. DS&C has said that the BSPS2 was not confirmed at the time of the 
advice. But I think it is overstating the chance of this not going ahead. The 
restructuring of the BSPS had been ongoing for a significant amount of time by the 
point it gave advice. Actions had been agreed with the pensions regulator and 
carried out as scheduled  not least a significant lump sum payment into the BSPS 
which enabled the provision of improved transfer value quotations. Members had 
been sent time to choose letters, with opting into the BSPS2 one of the options 
offered to them. And indeed DS&C had said in its correspondence with Mr E that this 
was a choice he had. So, based on what had happened to that point, I think the 
relevant parties, not least the trustees, were confident the BSPS2 would go ahead.
But even if this hadnt happened, the PPF still provided Mr E with a guaranteed 
income and the option of accessing his benefits early. Mr E was unlikely to improve 
on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as he 
mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this meant that 
transferring was in his best interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Es best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension.
DS&C says Mr E was given time to consider his options, made an informed decision to 
transfer and had indicated he was always going to transfer, regardless of the risks. 
As Ive already explained I dont think the evidence supports that Mr E was given a great 
deal of time to consider the transfer  given the relevant application forms were signed at the 
first meeting to specifically discuss this. And the suitability report wasnt provided until a 
month after the application to transfer was made. So, he hadnt received a written 
explanation of the reasons for the recommendation before proceeding.
Mr E mightve gone into the discussion thinking transferring was a good idea and thinking 
that this was what he wanted to do. And it has been suggested his union representative had 
reinforced that. But the union representative wasnt a financial adviser. And DS&Cs role 
wasnt to just facilitate what Mr E, an inexperienced investor, mightve thought was best. 
Ultimately DS&C advised Mr E to transfer. And I think he relied on that advice. If DS&C, a 
professional adviser whose expertise he had sought, had explained why it wasnt in his best 
interests to transfer I think hed have accepted that advice.
As a result, Im upholding this complaint as I think the advice Mr E received from DS&C was 
unsuitable.Mr E had over 25 years before he reached the normal retirement age of the scheme. And 
was a significant amount of time from when he mightve been able to access benefits early. 
And again, I think any thoughts he had about retiring were unconfirmed. So, I don't think that 
it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr E wouldve retained the ability to 
transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. And the annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
So, I think, had he received suitable advice not to transfer, Mr E wouldve opted into the 
BSPS2. 
Our Investigator recommended that DS&C make a payment for the distress caused to Mr E. 
Mr E received advice from DS&C in November 2017. He first complained about that advice 
in 2022. I havent seen anything that suggests the advice caused him ongoing distress 
during that period as the first indication he potentially had any concerns about the advice 
seems to have been when he first discussed matters with his professional representative. 
Nevertheless, I accept Mr E may potentially been worried to find that the advice might not 
have been suitable for him. And given the circumstances and uncertainty under which he 
first asked for this advice, I dont doubt he has been concerned. This wouldn't have occurred 
but for the advice that is the subject of this complaint. So, in the circumstances, I think the 
recommended award of £200 is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for DS&C to put Mr E, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr E would have most 
likely remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable 
advice had been given. 
DS&C must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
DS&C should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. While 
I note Mr Es representatives comments that the transferred funds are now combined with 
other pension provisions, the calculator does account for the addition of other funds following 
a transfer. So, I dont think this is a reason not to use it here. And DS&C can enlist the 
assistance of an appropriate provider, should it need to.
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr E and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what DS&C 
based the inputs into the calculator on. 
For clarity, Mr E has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Es 
acceptance of the decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, DS&C should:
calculate and offer Mr E redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr E before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr E receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr E accepts DS&Cs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr E for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Es end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr E as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, DS&C may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Es likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
I've thought about Mr E's representative's point regarding this deduction. It believes this is 
unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been deducted from the fund value 
over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this may unfairly reduce the 
redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact compensation in these 
circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr E back into the scheme as 
if the transfer out hadn't happened. So, overall, I remain of the view that the redress 
proposed fairly compensates Mr E for the impact of the unsuitable advice he received.
In addition, DS&C should pay Mr E £200 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require David Stock & Co Limited to carry out the steps outlined 
in the putting things right section of this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman