DRN-4268841
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Monument Life Insurance Dac cancelled their payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs F in 2006 and they paid for the policy by way of monthly 
premiums. 
On 20 March 2023, a letter was sent to Mr and Mrs F notifying them that the Monument was 
cancelling their policy with effect from 30 June 2023. This is because the insurer was 
withdrawing the cover from the market. Mr and Mrs F didnt want their policy to be cancelled. 
They were happy with the cost of the PPI and said finding an alternative policy would be 
more expensive and less favourable to them. They wanted the PPI policy to be left in place. 
Mr and Mrs F complained to Monument who said it had acted within its terms and conditions 
when cancelling the cover. 
Mr and Mrs F then complained to this service. Our adjudicator considered the complaint but 
didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs F did not agree with that view. They said they 
hadnt been given a reasonable explanation as to why the policy had been cancelled. 
As Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr and Mrs F will be disappointed with my decision, but Im afraid I havent upheld 
their complaint. Ill explain why. 
It looks as though cover was sold by a third-party business, but Monument is the insurer. I 
can see from the correspondence sent to Mr and Mrs F that Monument said all its PPI 
policies were being withdrawn from the market  it wasnt only Mr and Mrs Fs policy that 
was cancelled.  In other words, Monument made a commercial decision to cancel all PPI 
policies like Mr and Mrs Fs.  
It might if I explain the role of this service. We dont regulate financial businesses. And we 
cant tell Monument to reinstate a financial product to the market if it has taken a commercial 
decision to withdraw it. What we can do is consider individual complaints and look at 
whether Monument acted fairly and reasonably when it cancelled Mr and Mrs Fs policy. 
To help me decide on that point, the first thing Ive looked at is the terms and conditions that 
apply to Mr and Mrs Fs policy. I can see those terms say that Monument can cancel the 
policy by giving 90-days notice. In this case, Monument gave Mr and Mrs F more than 90-
days written notice to say that their cover would be coming to an end. So, Im satisfied it 
complied with its terms and conditions. 
I know Mr and Mrs F are keen for their cover to continue. But just because a policy has been 
offered by an insurer, it doesnt mean that cover has to continue for ever. Monument can 
bring the policy to and end if it chooses to do so and gives the relevant notice  just as Mr 
and Mrs F would have been able to cancel their cover if they wanted to. 
Overall, I can see Mr and Mrs F are disappointed that their cover has been cancelled, but I 
cant say Monument made a mistake when it did this. And it has given them more than the 
required notice set out in the terms and conditions. With that in mind, Monument doesnt 
need to take any further action in this case. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Monument Life Insurance Dac.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman