DRN-1891630
 
The Complaint
Mrs F complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
connection with a store card. 
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) have taken 
responsibility for the sale and so the complaint has been set up against AXA.
To keep things simple, Ive only referred to AXA during this decision.
Background
Mrs F was sold PPI in connection with a store card in 1999.
The PPI wouldve cost Mrs F no more than £1.00 per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. And as I understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if 
Mrs F was off work sick or lost her job until the outstanding balance had been cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld.
Mrs F didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. I appreciate Mrs F will be 
disappointed by this outcome but I will go on to explain why I've reached this decision.
First of all I've considered whether Mrs F was eligible under the policy. Im satisfied Mrs F 
was eligible for the PPI based on her age and employment at the time of the sale. 
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs F that the PPI was optional and needed Mrs Fs consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mrs F says it was a requirement that PPI be taken 
out in order to open the account and that she was pressured into taking it out. She says she 
had sufficient existing repayment provisions and did not need PPI.
From the records AXA have provided, it appears that the PPI was sold during a telephone 
call in 1999. AXA dont have a call recording or transcript of the sale. This is understandable 
given the length of time since the sale. But what it does mean is that I cant know for sure 
what happened during the sale. Equally understandably Mrs F hasnt provided us with a 
detailed account of what took place during the sale. So Ive thought about what AXA and Mrs F have told us and used my understanding of what the sales process was like at the time of 
the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have happened during the sale.
My understanding of the sales process at this time is that PPI would have been presented as 
optional and would only have been applied to the account if it had been selected. I note that 
PPI was presented as optional on the credit agreement at the time of the sale. Mrs F didnt 
choose to take PPI at this time and so it wasnt applied to her account. This supports my 
understanding of the sales process.
PPI was sold to Mrs F the following year during a phone call and although I appreciate what 
Mrs F has told us, I dont have sufficient evidence to conclude that on this particular 
occasion AXA deviated from their sales process and presented the PPI as compulsory. 
Particularly given that the PPI was sold some time after the store card had been taken out. 
This makes it difficult to see how it would have been presented as a requirement to get the 
store card. 
So, I cant say that its more likely that PPI wasnt presented as optional or that Mrs F didnt 
choose to take it. And I havent any evidence to support that Mrs F was more likely to have 
been pressured into taking PPI.  
From what I know of their sales practice at the time, I dont think AXA advised Mrs F to take 
the policy out. This means they didnt have to take steps to ensure the policy was suitable for 
Mrs F. So, for example, they didnt have to ask about or consider Mrs Fs existing repayment 
provisions or assess if the PPI was affordable for Mrs F.
But AXA did have to give Mrs F clear information so that she could make a proper choice 
about whether to take the policy out. I cant say that AXA gave Mrs F all the information as 
they shouldve about the costs/benefits of the policy or the main exclusions and restrictions. 
However, this in itself doesnt mean that PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information wouldve put Mrs F off taking the policy out. I dont think it 
wouldve. I say this because:
 
Mrs F cant recall how much sick pay she would have been entitled to and for how 
long. But in any event, the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mrs Fs sick pay 
and potentially for a longer period of time. And it wouldve also provided the same 
cover (15% of the monthly outstanding balance) if Mrs F lost her job. 
 
Mrs F didnt appear to have been affected by the more restrictive terms in the policy 
such as those relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements. So, it seems like Mrs F could have made a successful claim under the 
policy if the need arose.
 
I havent seen any evidence which would suggest that the PPI was unaffordable for 
Mrs F.
 
Mrs F couldve cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially if she no 
longer wanted it.
 
So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mrs F was mis-sold this PPI policy.  
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman