DRN-4055767
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc rejected his claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr L placed an order for the supply and installation of a shed for £1790. He paid an initial 
deposit of £895 by bank transfer and paid the balance of £895 using his Sainsburys credit 
card.
Mr L wasnt happy with where the shed had been positioned because it was too close to the 
wall. He says he had specified that there should be a space between the wall and the shed 
when he placed the order. Mr L also found some issues with the shed including (amongst 
other things) side panels not correctly fitted, beams on front panel not flush with front panel 
and shed door catching on front panel.
Mr L complained to the merchant. The merchant didnt agree that the shed had been 
positioned incorrectly but offered three options to resolve the situation.
Mr L wanted the shed and base removed and for the merchant to refund him in full but was 
unable to resolve matters with the merchant. He contacted Sainsburys to raise a claim under 
section 75.
Sainsburys rejected the claim. It said the merchant had offered a reasonable solution. It also 
said it didnt agree that there had been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Mr L wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Sainsburys had acted fairly when 
declining the section 75 claim because there was no evidence that the merchant had 
positioned the shed in a place which hadnt been agreed. The investigator also said that the 
photographs of the shed showing gaps werent sufficient to say that the quality of the shed 
was unsatisfactory. The investigator concluded that there was no evidence of a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation.
Mr L didnt agree. He said the photos showed that the shed was of poor quality and that it 
had been built too close to the wall to allow for air circulation and maintenance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr Ls complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Sainsburys response to the section 75 claim wasnt 
fair or reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply. If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred. 
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induced the consumer to enter into 
the contract.
Mr L has raised two issues here. Firstly, he says that the shed wasnt positioned correctly. 
Theres no written contract between Mr L and the suppliers of the shed. So, although Mr L 
has said that he specified that there should be a space between the shed and the wall, 
theres no evidence to support this, or to show the agreed position of the shed. I appreciate 
that Mr L has said that his partner raised concerns with the supplier about the position of the 
shed whilst the installation was taking place. However, the positioning of the shed in the 
presence of Mr Ls partner also suggests that the shed was positioned with her consent, and 
could support a conclusion that the position of the shed was agreed. Taking the limited 
information into account, there isnt enough evidence for me to safely conclude that the shed 
was positioned in a different position to that which had been agreed, or that the position of 
the shed prevented the shed from being used for its intended purpose. Because of this, Im 
unable to say that theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation in relation to the 
position of the shed.
Mr L has also raised some issues about the quality of the shed. Hes provided photos 
showing (amongst other things) a gap between the roof and the front panels. Based on what 
Ive seen in the photos, it does look as if there are some issues with the shed. Under the 
relevant legislation, the merchant is allowed one opportunity to repair any faults. In this case, 
I can see that the merchant offered to look at the shed and assess whether any remedial 
repairs were needed and carry them out.  My understanding is that Mr L declined this offer 
by the merchant.
It isnt possible for me to conclude  based on the photos alone  that the shed isnt of 
satisfactory quality. So, I cant say that theres been a breach of contract. But even if I was 
satisfied that the shed wasnt of satisfactory quality, I wouldnt be asking Sainsburys to 
refund the purchase price of the shed here, because I agree with Sainsburys that the 
merchant has offered a reasonable resolution to the complaint. 
Taking everything into account, I havent seen anything to suggest that Sainsburys declined 
the section 75 claim unfairly or unreasonably. I dont think theres enough evidence to say 
that theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman