DRN-2927833
The complaint
Mr D complains Nationwide Building Society made changes to how he logged into his 
account online without consulting its customers. Mr D was unhappy with the changes and 
wanted to go back to being able to log on using his memorable data.
What happened
Mr D has been a happy customer of Nationwide for over fifteen years. Hes told us that he 
always been able to access his online account on the go using his memorable word. Hes 
told us that he liked the fact that he was able to access his account easily and on the go 
from all corners of the world in this way. Hes also told us that he was very annoyed when he 
discovered he could no longer do this and that hed have to log into using account using his 
customer number and a card reader or a text code. He complained to Nationwide.
Nationwide looked into Mr Ds complaint and said that it had made changes to its process for 
logging into online accounts in order to implement strong customer authentication. 
Nationwide said that it had introduced text messages to a mobile phone in order to comply 
with these regulations, and that memorable data couldnt be used to do so. Nationwide noted 
that Mr D had also successfully used its card reader. Mr D didnt accept Nationwides 
explanation saying that other banks he knew of were still using memorable information. He 
also thought Nationwides response insulted his intelligence. So, he complained to us telling 
us that he doesnt feel comfortable signing in with the other options.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint and said that they didnt think 
Nationwide had acted unfairly. Mr D disagreed saying that Nationwide should have 
consulted with its customers before forcing a change on them, so customers who werent 
happy with the change could close their accounts or ask to opt out. Mr D also said that he 
didnt think Nationwide had provided alternative options for its customers in line with the 
expectations of the FCA. He asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So, Ive looked into 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds complaint comes in at least two parts. Hes unhappy that Nationwide didnt consult 
before it made changes to its process for logging onto online accounts. And hes unhappy 
that Nationwide has changed the process meaning hes no longer able to log on using his 
memorable word. Ill deal with each of these in turn, but I think its helpful if I explain what 
strong customer authentication is first.
Strong customer authentication
In its Final Response, Nationwide told Mr D that it had made changes to the way its 
customers logged onto their online accounts as a result of new regulations that were going 
to come into effect in September 2019 that affected the whole banking sector.
Nationwide is right that new regulations came into effect in September 2019  the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These regulations affected the whole banking sector 
and required payment service providers (PSPs) to apply strong customer authentication in 
certain circumstances. Those circumstances are set out in in Article 100 of the regulations 
which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of 
payment fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and has given the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as PSD2  define strong customer authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that 
the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, 
and designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, 
with the elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong 
customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about this too.
In paragraph 20.21 of a paper it published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic 
Money  Our Approach  the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of authentication, to 
comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas without 
mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate 
customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a mobile 
phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one.
Should Nationwide have allowed Mr D to carry on using his memorable information?
The regulations do not say how firms should go about implementing strong customer 
authentication  but they do impose certain requirements. For example, firms must 
authenticate using two independent factors. Nationwide has chosen to rely on possession 
as one of its factors and knowledge too  but not memorable information. I can 
understand why Nationwide has done that because memorable information is easier for 
fraudsters to compromise. That was a decision Nationwide was entitled to make. Mr D says 
that Nationwide hasnt offered alternatives in line with FCAs expectations.
Has Nationwide met FCAs expectations?
As I mentioned above, the FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere 
that businesses shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and 
should provide viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my 
opinion, also made it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont 
possess a mobile phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr D doesnt possess a mobile phone or cant use one. 
Hes told us that he doesnt like change and that he prefers the way he used to be able to log 
in. I can appreciate that  most people dont like change. But I dont think thats reason 
enough to say that Nationwide hasnt offered an alternative that works for Mr D. He has used 
Nationwides card reader  one of the options Nationwide offers  and as I say Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that he couldnt use a one-time passcode sent to a mobile. So, I dont 
think Nationwide has been unfair here. I can see that Nationwide does offer other options for 
customers, for example, that have a disability meaning that they cannot use a mobile phone.
Did Nationwide fail to consult its customers about the changes?
Nationwide has told us that it made changes to the way its customers logged into their online 
accounts in November 2019. Nationwide has told us that it explained that these changes 
were going to take place on its website and sent emails to its members in October 2019. Ive 
no reason to doubt this, so I cant agree with Mr D that Nationwide didnt notify its customers 
that it was going to be making changes.
I accept that Nationwide might not have consulted its customers, but Nationwide had no 
choice over whether or not it implemented strong customer authentication  only how it went 
about doing so, but only then to the extent that its approach complied with the relevant 
strong customer authentication regulations. So, I dont think I can say Nationwide acted 
unfairly here either.I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr D. I can see he doesnt like change 
and that he was happy with the ease with which he used to be able to access his account. 
Unfortunately strong customer authentication is an important measure to combat fraud, and 
a good thing even if involves for some additional inconvenience.
My final decision
My Final Decision is that I dont think Nationwide Building Society has acted unfairly here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman