DRN-4135466
The complaint
T, a limited company, has complained ClearBank Limited wont refund money lost from its 
account as a result of a scam.
Mr B, a director, represents T in its complaint.
What happened
T holds a Tide business account with ClearBank Limited. For ease, Ill refer to Ts account 
with Tide throughout.
In 2022 Mr B received a call from someone (who Ill call E) stating they were from Ts bank, 
Tide. E wanted to check whether some payments on Ts account were genuine. Ts account, 
as well as Mr Bs personal account, had recently been targeted by fraudsters, so Mr B 
understood the urgency of the situation.
To check E was genuine, Mr B looked up the telephone number they were calling from. He 
queried this as it didnt seem right. E hung up and called him again. This call seemed to 
come from the number on the back of Ts debit card.
Whilst Mr B was on hold, he called the number on the back of his card to check whether 
anybody could call from that number without being employed by Tide. He got the impression 
this couldnt happen. At the same time he tried to contact Tide through the chat function on 
the app. He was unable to get any response despite confirming his query was urgent.
Having carried out relevant checks, Mr B followed the instructions he was given. This 
involved sending all the money in Ts business account to a new account that had been set 
up supposedly in Ts name, as well as inputting the relevant code to authorise this payment. 
Tide had contacted T earlier in the year to confirm changed account details so Mr B wasnt 
completely surprised by what he was being asked to do.
Mr B immediately noticed Ts account was empty. E phoned him back to confirm the account 
would show in his app imminently. But when Mr B checked again, no new account existed. 
Ts funds had disappeared. He contacted Tide through the app and by email.
Tide believed the payment had been properly authorised on Ts behalf. Despite admitting 
their customer service had not been as theyd have liked, they wouldnt refund T. They 
would, however, refund the small amount which they understood remained at the beneficiary 
bank.
Mr B brought Ts complaint to the ombudsman service. 
Our investigator noted Tide had not taken steps to carry out any additional checks on Ts 
payment. They felt that the transaction was sufficiently unusual to merit either a warning or 
intervention. Therefore they asked Tide to refund T.
Tide didnt agree with this outcome. They believed Ts account was a business account and 
the suggestion that they should intervene in payments of this nature would be an undue 
regulatory burden.
Ts complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that T made and authorised the payment. Mr B believed he knew who the 
payment was being made to  another account in Ts name, and the reasons why. At the 
stage T authorised the payment by inputting the relevant authorisation code, Mr B believed 
he was taking urgent action to keep Ts money safe. 
I dont dispute T was scammed but under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 Im 
satisfied the transactions were authorised.
Its also accepted that Tide has an obligation to follow Ts instructions. So in the first instance 
T is presumed liable for its loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Tide should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
T fell victim to a sophisticated scam. Unfortunately safe account scams  which is what this 
was  are not massively unusual. Its unclear exactly how E knew details about T but its 
clear they did. This meant the fraudsters could tailor their approach to Mr B and make it 
completely believable. 
Specifically they were able to spoof telephone numbers to appear as if E was calling from 
the number on the back of Ts card.
The fraudster was also able to explain in detail how Mr B should help them make the 
payment and directed him to the relevant aspects on the app, including providing the QR 
code which allowed the fraudsters to access Ts account and move the money. 
Tide has confirmed they do have risk-based mechanisms in place to check unusual 
transactions, however, what Mr B was doing wasnt sufficiently unusual to trigger any 
warnings.However I find this surprising. This fraud resulted in all of the money held in Ts account with 
Tide being moved in one payment. That immediately strikes me as unusual. Theres no 
indication that T was unhappy with Tides business banking services and Id have expected 
this large payment to have alerted the bank.
Mr B had also tried to contact Tide about the payment. Tide has said that as only the verify 
account was used, they took no action. However I can see even when Mr B used the 
emergency button on the chat function as he realised what had happened, there was a delay 
in getting things sorted.
Tide could also see a new account was being set up. Although this was supposedly in Ts 
name, Im not convinced Tide would have been able to identify this wasnt the case. This is 
the result of them not being part of the industry confirmation of payee service.
As I say, safe account scams are not unusual. All banks are aware of how these operate. 
We expect banks to alert customers  including business customers  about so-called 
impersonation scams. 
For these reasons I believe Tide should have issued a warning at the time £29,114.87 was 
being transferred. Based on the actions Mr B had already taken to check whether this was a 
scam, I believe any alert from Tide would have ensured hed take immediate action to stop 
any payment being made.
I note what Tide has said about them only providing business accounts. However I dont 
believe this means they are exempt from the requirements to monitor accounts, intervene 
when payments are being made and alert customers to potential frauds. I note Mr B had 
made a large payment more than a year previously but it appears to me that the payments 
Mr B made were generally to an account set up on Ts Tide account for transfers. This is not 
what happened at the time of this fraud when a new account was set up prior to all of the 
funds from Ts account being transferred. This is a clear indicator of potential fraud.
Im also surprised Tide suggest that Mr B should have been aware that E couldnt have been 
a Tide employee working from home because of the email details provided and that 
whatever they were doing would be in contravention of GDPR. As I have said banks are 
always in a better position to be aware what potential frauds are happening than their 
customers. And that includes business customers.
I have considered what Tide has said that Mr B would have been aware that Tide would 
never ask him to scan a QR code. However, I cant see that at the time this was occurring, 
Tide alerted Mr B of this aspect. I also agree with the points our investigator made that the 
use of QR codes is pretty ubiquitous so Im not convinced that Mr B would have known.
Ive reviewed what Tide did when they were alerted to the scam. They notified the recipient 
bank of the transfer the following morning, asking them to see whether money remained. 
Banks are requested to take immediate action but I also appreciate that the majority of funds 
were most likely moved on very quickly. Tide has confirmed they asked the recipient bank 
for remaining funds and issued any required indemnity notice. Theres no confirmation that 
those funds have yet been made available to T, despite nearly a year having passed.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that if Tide had taken action to warn Mr B or stop the payment, as I believe they 
should have, T wouldnt have lost considerable funds from their account.
As I believe any intervention Tide should have made would have altered what happened here, I am going to ask them to refund Ts money in full. 8% simple interest a year should be 
added to the amount.
Theres no dispute that the customer service T received wasnt appropriate. Tide has 
admitted this in their final response to T. I believe a small amount of compensation  £100  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct ClearBank Limited to:
refund T £29,114.87, minus any money already credited from the remaining funds at 
the recipient bank;
add 8% simple interest a year from 1 June 2022 until the date of settlement; and
pay £100 for the bad customer service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman