DRN-3881004
The complaint
Mr, Mrs and Ms U all complain that BUPA Insurance Limited unfairly applied a limit to their 
medical insurance claim.
This complaint relates to Ms U, but for simplicity, Ill refer to all submissions being made by 
her father, Mr U as hes her representative in these circumstances.
What happened
The background to this decision is set out in my provisional findings and so I wont detail 
everything thats happened here. In summary, Mr U needed to arrange treatment for his 
daughter, Ms U, who suffers with anorexia. He arranged treatment at a facility, however, the 
medical insurance policy has a limit on the required treatment of 28 days. Mr U said this was 
unclear and so he wanted BUPA to cover all associated costs. Ms Us treatment exceeded 
the 28 days. BUPA paid for two occasions of treatment across two policy years. 
BUPA said it wont pay anything more and said the policy terms are clear that theres a 28 
day limit on this type of treatment. Our investigator upheld the complaint and said BUPA 
should pay the deficit, because he too felt the terms were unclear. I disagreed and issued 
my provisional findings. In summary, I said the terms were clear and explained that Mr U 
was aware of the policys limit prior to Ms Us treatment beginning. I said Id consider any 
new evidence prior to issuing my final decision. 
Mr U responded to my findings and, in summary said;
The policy terms were unclear. He explained BUPA had reworded the terms for this 
year and that this is proof of the previous terms being unclear. He said BUPA had 
corrected its terms to clearly demonstrate the policy limits;
The investigator agreed there was ambiguity and that because I took a different view, 
that supports that the terms were unclear as wed both interpreted them differently. 
Once theyd arranged for Ms Us entry to a treatment facility, realistically there wasnt 
any time to change the planned treatment course. And so, whilst Mr U was aware of 
the policy limit at that point, he was unable to change the intended treatment 
because it wouldve caused too much upset for Ms U.
And so, its now for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons explained in my provisional findings, Im still not persuaded by Mr Us 
testimony and so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive acknowledged the difficult 
personal circumstances surrounding this complaint and Id like to once again say that I 
appreciate the arguments made by Mr U. But that doesnt mean that I agree BUPA should 
pay this claim. Ill explain why.
The arguments made in response to my provisional findings were the same points made 
throughout the complaint. Thats to say there is no new evidence here for me to consider. Im 
already fully aware of the chronology and the circumstances surrounding this complaint and 
Ive explained my thoughts on those points  so I dont consider it helpful to readdress the 
same arguments in my final decision. However, there were some points made that I thought 
it might be helpful to address. 
Mr U said BUPA changed its policy terms since he brought his complaint and that this is in 
some way an admission by BUPA that itd previously got things wrong. I should say that 
whilst I see the point hes making here, Ive not seen any evidence to support that. Its not 
uncommon for insurers to regularly make changes to their policy terms as this happens 
frequently within the industry. In addition, I wasnt persuaded that the original terms were 
unclear because although they explained BUPA would cover day patient and inpatient 
treatment at a recognised facility in full - this was subject to a limit of 28 days. 
I accept Mr U has a different interpretation of this, but for the purposes of my final decision, I 
disagree and therefore, my decision on that point is that Ms Us treatment was subject to a 
28 day limit and that this was clearly explained within the policy terms. 
Mr U made further representations about the investigators view and said that because hed 
upheld the complaint, this further demonstrated the term were unclear because Id reached a 
different outcome. I should explain that its part of this services remit to offer an initial view 
on the complaint by an investigator and then an ombudsman can issue a final decision 
should either party remain unhappy with the initial assessment. In this case, our investigator 
reached the wrong outcome. BUPA requested a final decision and so the ombudsman has 
the final say when it comes to a complaint. In my provisional decision, I explained why I 
disagreed with the investigators findings and so I dont think theres much more I can 
helpfully add on that point. Although, to be clear, the policy terms say;
benefit 5.2 day-patient and in-patient mental health treatment 
Your membership certificate shows the maximum number of days that we will pay up to for 
mental health day-patient treatment and mental health in-patient treatment under your 
benefits. We only pay for one addiction treatment programme in each members lifetime. 
This applies to all Bupa schemes and/or Bupa administered trusts you have been a member 
and/or beneficiary of in the past or may be a member and/or beneficiary of in the future, 
whether your being a member and/or beneficiary is continuous or not
And the membership certificate says;
up to a maximum of 28 days each year for mental health day patient treatment and mental 
health in-patient treatment combined and not individually 
And so, because BUPA has acted in line with the policy terms, I dont think it should do 
anything else in these circumstances.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman