DRN-3083754
The complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt explain all his options when he made 
a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H said another driver clipped his parked car, but she initially denied liability. Mr H made a 
claim to UKI and his car was repaired. But UKI then said liability hadnt been accepted by the 
other insurer and he would have to pay his £600 policy excess. Mr H was unhappy that UKI 
hadnt explained that he could have held off repairs until liability had been agreed. He was 
unhappy that he had to pay his excess and that his premium increased at renewal. UKI paid 
Mr H £50 compensation for not explaining all his options.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI 
should have explained Mr Hs options more fully. But he thought its offer of compensation for 
this was fair and reasonable. He explained that any claim could lead to an increase in 
premiums. And he saw that UKI would recover Mr Hs excess if liability was accepted by the 
other insurer.
Mr H replied that £50 wasnt sufficient for all hed been put through.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that when Mr H reported the claim he was told that because he wasnt at fault UKI 
would recover the excess from the other insurer. So it wasnt explained that Mr H would be 
liable for the policy excess if UKI hadnt made a full recovery before his repairs were made. 
And so it came as a shock to Mr H when he was asked to pay £600. UKI agreed that it 
should have explained to Mr H that he could have waited for the other insurer to accept 
liability before having his car repaired and so avoid paying his £600 policy excess. 
When a business makes a mistake, as UKI accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
Mr H has had his car repaired and this cant be undone. So I think it would be unreasonable 
to expect UKI to refund his policy excess as this is always the first part of a claim to be paid. 
I can see that UKI is still disputing liability and it has explained that it will recover the policy 
excess along with the claim costs if liability is accepted. This may take some time, but I think 
this will restore Mr Hs position.
Mr H said he was caused trouble by UKIs poor communication. I can see that he had to pay 
£600 when he didnt expect this. And I think this caused Mr H some trouble and upset. But I 
think UKIs payment of £50 compensation for this impact was fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with our published guidance. I dont require it to increase this.
Our investigator has already explained that any incident, whether it leads to a claim or not, 
can affect premiums at renewal due to the increased risk to the insurer. Also, an open claim 
is recorded as a fault until its settled, and this can have an effect on the premium. I think it 
was open to Mr H to shop around if he was unhappy with the premium UKI quoted.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman