DRN-2371024
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) decision to 
record his car insurance claim as impact damage and not vandalism. Mr W wants Advantage 
to change the recording to vandalism and reinstate his two years no claims bonus.
What happened
Mr W contacted Advantage when he found the wing mirror of his car had been damaged. He 
said his car had been damaged as a result of vandalism.
 
Advantage treated the claim as impact damage to Mr Ws car so this affected his no claims 
bonus. Mr W complained and, in their response, Advantage acknowledged his complaint that 
they had recorded the incident as impact and not vandalism. They said their engineers had 
confirmed the damage to Mr Ws car was consistent with impact from another vehicle so the 
excess was payable. And, they wouldnt change the recording of this to vandalism. They 
didnt uphold the complaint.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr W. She felt Advantage hadnt acted unfairly in 
treating Mr Ws claim as impact damage. Mr W disagreed so the matter has come to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr W will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Mr Ws car insurance policy includes a Vandalism promise. This says if he makes a claim 
for his car as a result of vandalism, he wont lose his no claims bonus so long as certain 
conditions are met. The policy then lists conditions which include, paying the excess, 
reporting the incident to the police and satisfying the insurer that the damage is the result of 
vandalism. Its the last of these conditions which is the subject of a dispute here so Ive 
looked at whether it was fair and reasonable for Advantage to not record the claim as 
vandalism.  
Insurers often appoint engineers experienced in this type of work to look at the damage, and 
thats what Advantage did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for Advantage to 
rely on the engineers comments when deciding how to deal with the claim. Ive seen the 
comments made by Advantages engineer and this says the damage to Mr Ws car appears 
to be impact damage and not vandalism. 
I note Mr W says the engineer works for Advantage and therefore has an incentive to protect 
their interests. Nothing I have seen suggests the engineers view is unreasonable given the 
evidence they had seen. Information provided by Advantage shows that the engineer had 
sight of the photographs showing damage to Mr Ws car before forming their opinion. 
  
Ive seen photographs showing the damage to Mr Ws car. There are markers showing the 
areas needing repair and this does show damage beyond just the wing mirror. Additionally, 
Ive looked at the repair report and this provides a description of the parts needed to repair 
Mr Ws car as well as the labour costs. And, this shows repairs were needed to more than 
the wing mirror as there was damage to areas which appears broadly consistent with the 
type of damage thats likely to be caused by impact. I note Mr W says the wing mirrors fold in 
when the car is locked and, at the time of the incident, his car was locked. So, he feels the 
damage was more likely caused by someone pulling the wing mirror from its folded position. 
I have taken into account Mr Ws comments but I havent seen any information which 
challenges the findings made by the engineer or persuades me that the damage was, more 
likely than not, caused by vandalism.
In summary, I dont think Advantage have acted unfairly or unreasonably in recording the 
claim as impact damage. And, I think Advantage have acted in line with the policy in relation 
to Mr Ws no claims bonus.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman