DRN-2305317
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as RSA have 
handled a claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H tells us he made a claim under his home insurance policy following a water leak in May 
2020 causing damage to a kitchen unit and laminate flooring. In agreement with RSA he 
provided quotations from local contractors to carry out repairs. 
RSA say that due to the total value of the claim they appointed a loss adjuster who 
undertook a virtual inspection of the damage. RSA felt the quotations provided by Mr H were 
high in comparison to the work required. And on 3 June 2020 offered a cash settlement of 
£2,255.05 excluding VAT. RSA offered the services of their approved contractors if a cash 
settlement couldnt be agreed. Mr H told RSA he felt the offer was too low and asked if they 
could increase it. He also asked for the scope of works RSA had referred to.
In a telephone conversation on 8 June 2020 RSA agreed to increase the cash offer by £100 
to £2,355.05 and Mr H accepted this. RSA emailed Mr H to confirm this offer but used the 
previously agreed figure of £2,255.05. They asked for bank details to make the payment as 
Mr H hadnt had them to hand during the phone call. Mr H responded by email later that day 
pointing out the figure hadnt been increased by £100 as agreed. RSA replied shortly after 
apologising for the error and said, the correct cash settlement before the VAT amount is 
£2355.05 - £350 policy excess will make the total cash settlement £2005.05.
Mr H went back to RSA the same day expressing his disappointment and saying that the 
agreed figure was £2,355.05 and this is what he expected RSA to pay, effectively waiving 
the £350 policy excess. He asked how the matter could be resolved. RSA tell us it offered 
£25 compensation, but Mr H wasnt happy with this so RSA escalated his complaint.
RSA issued a final response letter on 23 June 2020. It upheld his complaint and apologised 
to Mr H, increasing its offer of compensation to £50. However, it said they wouldnt honour 
the figure of £2,355.05 by waiving the £350 excess. It said they made Mr H aware of the 
excess when he registered his claim with them, and it is it is detailed in the policy schedule. 
It added that itd made a human error and corrected this within a few hours.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with RSAs response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
doesnt dispute that he was aware there was a £350 excess. He says he assumed RSA had 
taken account of that when the offered him £2,355.05. And instructed his own contractors in 
the belief that he would be paid this figure. He says had he known the actual figure would 
only be £2,005.05 he wouldve used RSAs contractors rather than incur the higher costs of 
using his own.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed RSA had made a mistake when 
they didnt tell Mr H the excess would be deducted when discussing the claim settlement 
figure with him. But she felt they had settled his complaint fairly by apologising and offering 
£50 compensation. 
She explained if we find a business has made a mistake then we can ask it to put a 
customer back in the position they wouldve been in had the mistake not happened. In this 
case she said the excess had been correctly applied so it wasnt reasonable to expect RSA 
to waive it, and Mr H was effectively in the position he wouldve been in had they told him the 
claim settlement figure would be £2,055.05.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigator, and largely for the same reasons.
Its not in dispute that the policy has an excess, this is set out in policy terms and conditions, 
and was mentioned when Mr H registered his claim. The issue at the heart of complaint is 
that RSA offered Mr H a settlement figure of £2.355.05 and later amended it to £2,005.05 
after deducting the excess.
Mr H believed the figures quoted in calls and emails on 3 June and 8 June 2020 was after 
deduction of excess. And whilst there hadnt been a specific discussion as to whether the 
excess had, or hadnt been deducted, its not unreasonable for Mr H to believe it had been 
deducted. And Im satisfied RSA made a mistake in not making it clear the excess hadnt 
been deducted from the settlement figures it discussed with Mr H.
Having made a mistake my role is to determine if RSA acted fairly and reasonably in putting 
things right. 
Ive seen that in his email of 8 June querying why the settlement figure hadnt included the 
extra £100 Mr H said, On conformation of a settlement as agreed this morning of £2355:00 I 
will furnish you with bank details. It was prudent of Mr H to seek clarification of the amount 
that would be paid, and Im satisfied that this email prompted RSA to realise it had made a 
mistake. RSA responded to Mr Hl promptly and said, ..the correct cash settlement before 
the VAT amount is £2355.05 - £350 policy excess will make the total cash settlement 
£2005.05. So, RSA clarified the settlement the same day, before any payment had been 
made, and acknowledged it had made an error. I find it acted reasonably in correcting the 
error it had made.
 
When Mr H submitted quotations to RSA he said, I hope you find this quote acceptable as it 
would be nice to use a local company. And in his email of 3 June 2020 he mentioned I 
have heard so many horror stories from friends & family over the years when they have used 
Insurance Company builders. This puts us off using your builders.. Whilst I cannot be 
certain what Mr H wouldve done, Im persuaded its more likely Mr H wouldve used his own 
contactors to complete the works even if he had been told the claims settlement figure would 
be £2,005.05 rather than £2,355.05 despite his own contractors quotations being higher 
than either of these figures.
Ultimately RSA made a mistake, but it rectified the error quickly. And has apologised and 
offered £50 compensation to Mr H which I think is fair. In the circumstances of this complaint 
Im satisfied RSA has acted reasonably, and I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman