DRN-2251467
The complaint
Mr W complains Allianz Insurance Plc, trading as Pet Plan, have turned down his claim on 
his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ws pet had an accident and tore ligaments in her right hind leg in January 2020. Mr W 
made a claim on his pet insurance policy, but it was turned down. Mr Ws vet got in touch 
with Allianz, saying It is my belief that the current symptoms are representative of an acute 
injury to the cruciate ligament and not anything to do with any minor bruising back several 
months ago that healed completely without intervention. As Allianz still didnt pay the claim, 
Mr W complained to them.
Allianz looked into things and explained they wouldnt meet his claim. They said Mr Ws 
policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. When investigating Mr Ws claim, they noticed 
his pet had lameness on her hind leg on 6 September 2019. They added the policy started 
on 15 December 2019  and when taking it out, Mr W was asked questions about his pets 
visits to the vets. Allianz said their records show Mr W didnt tell them about any injury, 
illness, or anything discussed with his vets. So, when his claim came in, that was the first 
time theyd assessed his pets full medical history. Having done so, they added four 
exclusions onto the policy  one of which related to hips and / or hind limbs. Allianz said 
these exclusions would have been added if Mr W had made them aware of clinical signs of 
the conditions when taking out the policy.
Mr W didnt accept this, so asked us to look into things. He said he wanted his claim paid, 
and exclusions for hind limbs and lameness removed from his policy.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint and decided not to uphold it. He 
explained the medical notes showed Mr Ws pet had experienced problems with her right 
hind leg before taking out the policy  and if Allianz were made aware of that, then theyd 
have excluded claims related to hind limbs. So, he didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Mr W didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Itll help to explain that my role when considering a complaint about a declined insurance
claim is to assess whether the insurer has acted fairly in turning down the claim. So, to
decide this I need to look at the reasons Allianz have given for turning down the claim
and determine whether thats fair under the policy terms Mr W took out.
Allianz have explained theyve turned down Mr Ws claim because it was for a pre-existing 
condition. Under the section of whats not covered Allianz say they wont cover
any costs or claims for a pre-existing condition, or an illness that showed clinical signs
before the policy started.
The vets notes for Mr Ws pet do show in September 2019 Mr Ws pet was slightly lame in 
the right hind leg. This was a few months before Mr W took the policy out in December 2019 
 and hes described the purpose of the visit as being for injections (which I can see on the 
notes) as opposed to going to the vets for these issues.
So, I can understand why he may not have thought to mention it when taking out the policy. 
But, I dont think that means the terms cant apply. Allianz did ask Mr W if his pet had ever 
been unwell now or in the past, and if hed ever discussed anything with the vets. From the 
information I have, Mr W said no to these questions.
Ive seen Allianzs underwriting guide. I cant share it because its commercially sensitive, but 
Im satisfied with the information it contains. It says that if Mr Ws pet has had hind limb 
issues then an exclusion would be placed on the policy to say no claims would be met.
Ive also thought about Mr Ws vets comments that the two conditions arent related. And I 
accept thats possible, particularly as Im not a medical expert. But the key point in this case 
is that Mr Ws pet showed clinical signs of an injury or illness prior to the policy being taken 
out which, if Allianz had been told about, theyd have let Mr W know wouldnt be covered 
under the policy.
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied Allianz have turned down the claim fairly, 
and have also applied the exclusion fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman