DRN-2340824
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say that ReAssure Limited mis-sold them a mortgage endowment policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage endowment policy in 1999 with Legal & General  who 
has since transferred this area of its business to ReAssure.
Mr and Mrs B, through a representative, say the policy was mis-sold. They said the risk was 
too high for them; that they shouldve been recommended a repayment mortgage; and that 
they were inexperienced investors who didnt understand the complexity of the endowment 
plan they took out. ReAssure didnt uphold their complaint as it was satisfied the 
recommendation was suitable, based on the information it still held about the sale.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. She 
thought Mr and Mrs B were aware of their options at the time and she outlined how theyd 
signed paperwork agreeing to a medium level of risk  which didnt seem inappropriate 
based on their circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B, through their representative, asked for an ombudsmans decision. They 
maintained the risk was too high, they didnt understand the plan and they raised concerns 
over the care the advisor took in his recommendation and completion of the paperwork. So 
the case has been passed to me for a review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the paperwork that was completed during the sale of the policy. Mr and Mrs B 
state that they werent told about repayment mortgages, however theres a section on the 
fact find which states why an interest only mortgage has been recommended over a 
repayment mortgage with some notes around the discussion. So I think it seems most likely 
that a repayment mortgage was discussed to some degree with Mr and Mrs B during the 
meeting.
Mr and Mrs B say that the risk of this endowment was too high for them. Their representative 
argues that theres no sensible notes to support them being happy to have a medium level 
of risk (rather than low or no risk). And has pointed out that the adviser completed the 
paperwork, not Mr and Mrs B.
I cant agree that theres anything unusual about an adviser completing the fact find rather 
than the consumers. Its common practice at a meeting for the advisor to be responsible for 
the paperwork. And Mr and Mrs B have signed the paperwork confirming the information in it 
is correct. They were also provided with another document which sets out what theyre 
taking out and how it will be invested  and this has a section which sets out that the figures 
provided are not guaranteed and that Mr and Mrs B could get back less than this. So I think 
this makes it clear there is risk in the endowment. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B took out a Unit-linked endowment, so this is a higher risk 
investment than some other endowment products. However they were in a Managed fund, 
so the lowest risk for this category and Im satisfied this does meet the medium level of risk 
the signed paperwork details them being happy to take.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives have said that they didnt understand the complexity of their 
plan due to their occupations. But the paperwork Ive seen is clear on what theyre investing 
in and that there was risk. If they needed additional support or information above this, then I 
consider this is something they needed to bring to the advisers attention at the time. I do 
also note that this was their third mortgage endowment policy, so they had already been 
through the process twice and had a level of experience with this type of investment.
The advisers notes from the time set out that Mr and Mrs B wish to use their eligibility for 
other investment plans for other purposes, so this is why theyre taking out the Unit-linked 
endowment  which wouldve provided a higher return if it had performed well, due to the 
greater risk. I appreciate these notes couldve been more detailed. However, at the same 
time, they do suggest a conversation around savings and other funds has taken place  and 
other notes in the fact find suggest a conversation took place around mortgage interest rates 
and the rate of return on this endowment. 
Mr and Mrs B have complained about the sale of this endowment 21 years after it was sold 
and 18 years after they cashed it in. The recollections theyve provided arent consistent with 
the paperwork from the time and, while I accept recollections do fade, that means I do 
consider more weight can be placed on the paperwork than their testimony now. 
Ive seen nothing about Mr and Mrs Bs personal circumstances which suggests that a 
medium risk policy was unsuitable for them at the time  and theyve signed paperwork to 
say they accept the recommendation for it. Im also surprised that they didnt express their 
dissatisfaction in 2002, when they cashed the policy in due to poor performance, considering 
their complaint now is that they didnt understand the risk. On the basis of the evidence Ive 
seen, I think the policy was appropriately recommended to them at the time, so I cant agree 
now that it was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives have also raised that there are many blank pages on the 
fact find which they say shows a lack of duty of care by the advisor. However, the advisor 
has noted that he isnt going to be reviewing all the customers potential needs in the 
meeting, as Mr and Mrs B have set out that they dont have the time to spare. So I dont 
consider this can be attributed to a lack of care  and I consider the advisor has completed 
all the pages that are relevant to the sale of this policy. So this doesnt change my outcome.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman