DRN-3962173
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited (AIL) declined her claim for malicious 
damage.
What happened
Miss A claimed under her buildings insurance when builders, who had been working on her 
home, sprayed graffiti on the outside wall and took her gutters away. She also reported the 
matter to the police.
On request, and after some delay, the police provided AIL with details of its investigation into 
the events. The police said that the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) didnt think there was 
sufficient evidence to warrant a realistic prospect of conviction. For that reason, the CPS 
said it would be a civil matter.
Based on this information, AIL declined Miss As claim stating that it was a civil dispute.
Miss A brought her complaint to this service. She explained that the builders had fitted the 
gutters and started work on rendering the walls, both of which shed paid for. But she 
withheld the completion payment because of a dispute about the materials used.
Our investigator upheld Miss As complaint. She said AIL shouldve considered Miss As 
claim under the policy cover for malicious damage. Further, our investigator recommended 
that AIL pay Miss A £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
delays it couldve avoided in handling her claim.
AIL agreed with our investigators proposal, with the exception of providing cover for the 
guttering. It said the builders took the gutters as part of a dispute about payment and, in line 
with the police report, it considered this a civil matter.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Miss As complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive looked at the avoidable delays and AILs initial refusal to cover the graffiti under the 
policy. I wont go into detail here because AIL has accepted the recommendations to put 
this right. Having considered the evidence, Im satisfied that the proposed compensation 
of £300 is fair in the circumstances, and that the graffiti falls within the policy cover for 
malicious damage. 
The remaining issue, then, is that of the guttering. Ive seen Miss As bank statement 
which shows she made two payments to the builders, totalling £5,000. Miss A confirmed 
she made the first payment after the builders installed the gutters, and the second 
payment after theyd started rendering the walls. Because Miss A was unhappy with the 
standard of work, she sought consumer advice. In line with the advice, she wrote to the 
builders to say she was withholding the final payment of £2,000 until the issues regarding 
the rendering materials were resolved.
It was at this point that the builders spray painted a message on her house and took away 
the gutters theyd fitted. This is evidenced in the photos provided, and the video footage 
the police reviewed.
I understand why AIL considered this a civil matter - it relates to payment of a contract 
between Miss A and the builders. However, the evidence clearly shows that the civil 
matter was about the workmanship regarding the rendering. Had Miss A refused to pay for 
the gutters, then I might have viewed this differently. But, as it stands, the builders took 
Miss As gutters after shed paid for them.
Whether this is regarded as theft because the builders took Miss As property, or malicious 
damage because the builders caused damage to her home by removing the gutters on 
purpose and with ill intent, I find that AIL treated Miss A unfairly by declining her claim.
Miss A has since had new gutters installed at a cost of £1,350, as shown on the invoice 
she provided. Therefore, her loss in respect of the gutters is £1,350 because thats what 
she paid over and above what she wouldve done if the work had been completed and 
paid for.
Ive thought carefully about what AIL said about this being a civil matter. Looking at the 
police report, however, Im not persuaded that its as simple as that. The police looked into 
the theft of the gutters and presented evidence to the CPS. The CPS has a much greater 
burden of proof, and the evidence didnt identify the individual who removed the gutters  
just that someone did - so it didnt take the matter forward. But the evidence does show 
that the gutters were taken, so, on balance, I think its reasonable to say Miss A has 
demonstrated that she suffered a peril which should be considered under the terms of her 
policy.
Therefore, I find it fair and reasonable to require AIL to consider Miss As claim for her 
gutters under the malicious damage and/or theft section of her buildings policy. This is in 
addition to its consideration of the graffiti under the malicious damage section and 
payment of £300 in recognition of the delays Miss A experienced.
Overall, I think its reasonable to consider both elements of the claim event under the 
policy, because Miss A provided sufficient evidence to persuade me that the graffiti and 
removal of her gutters were acts intended to cause loss and damage.
I said I was minded to require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
reconsider the claim for the graffiti and gutters in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, and
compensate Miss A £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the avoidable 
delays reaching a decision, and for failing to consider her claim under the malicious 
damage peril.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
AIL had nothing further to add.
Miss A accepted my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss A accepted, and AIL didnt make any further submissions or provide further 
evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss As 
complaint and Ageas Insurance Limited must:
reconsider the claim for the graffiti and gutters in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, and
compensate Miss A £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the avoidable 
delays reaching a decision, and for failing to consider her claim under the malicious 
damage peril.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman