DRN-3377115
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly 
turned down part of a claim on her pet insurance policy.
Mrs Gs policy is branded in the name of a high-street store but as RSA underwrites and 
administers the policy it is responsible for responding to concerns about claims. So, for 
ease, in this decision, I will only refer to RSA.
What happened
Mrs G took out a pet policy to cover her cat, who Ill refer to as M, in 2018. In 2021 Mrs G 
claimed for various treatment and investigations into Ms health. The vets treating M 
submitted the claims for his treatment directly to RSA on Mrs Gs behalf. In April 2021 RSA 
paid part of a claim but declined to pay for the cost of x-rays which RSA said was associated 
with M's patella luxation (a dislocation of the kneecap(s)), which had been first diagnosed 
in 2017. RSA said that Mrs Gs policy didnt cover conditions that began before she took the 
policy out (in 2018), so that part of her claim wasn't covered.
Mrs G didnt think that was fair and brought her complaint to us. I issued a provisional 
decision on 2 March 2022. For ease, Ive copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Gs policy says it won't cover any injury, illness or physical abnormality that was noted 
before the policy began. In this case M's patella luxation was first diagnosed in 2017. So, as 
that was before the policy began, any treatment for that, or anything arising from it wouldnt 
be covered.
In February 2021 M was unwell. He was walking gingerly and showed signs of being in 
pain. The next month C took M to the vet again. M had vomited and seemed uncomfortable 
moving. The vets recorded that a previous consultation, in 2017, had diagnosed patella 
luxation.
Around two weeks later, on 16 March 2021, the vets x-rayed M's spine, hips and stifles to 
investigate his history of pain and abnormal gait. The vets also did a scan of M's abdomen. 
The x-rays didnt reveal any other causes for concern but confirmed M had patella luxation 
on both rear legs. The vets noted that M's unusual gait (walking gingerly) was likely 
caused by his patella luxation and they were hopeful that it could be conservatively 
managed.
The following month, on 9 April 2021, the vets recorded this:
Called Mrs G[] regarding direct insurance claim - luxating patellas. Have requested for her 
to bring in a fully completed form as I think this is a new claim with [RSA] as was with 
[another insurer] before. We first saw M[] 05/01/2017 with this condition (strange 
gait/luxating patella) so I feel may not be covered for this condition with [RSA], have advised 
will still send it off and see what they say.
RSA then paid part of the claim the vets had sent to it. But it didnt pay for the x-rays. The 
vets noted:
As we thought [RSA] have not paid for the x-rays as not a related condition and is 
pre-existing condition. They have paid for sedation etc. The vets said they would ask Mrs G 
to pay for the x-rays.
Around a week later, on 6 May 2021, the vets sent an email to RSA which said:
M[] was booked in to investigate his occasional episodes of pain (manifesting as being 
hunched up, out of sorts, holding his tail very low to the ground and not carrying it as normal) 
and his unusual hindlimb movement in case it was related. Two views of his lumbar spine 
and pelvis were taken under GA. As those views were normal we progressed to xraying his 
stifles to investigate if there was a pain locus there. M[] has low grade luxating patellas 
which will not cause him pain (though can cause an abnormal gait) so when xraying the 
stifles we were looking for things that caused pain like arthritis. There was no arthritis on his 
stifle xrays and we did not diagnose the cause of his occasional episodes of pain. In 
summary the xrays taken were to investigate pain and while we already knew that he had 
low grade patella disease that would not be causing pain we did not know if there was 
something else such as arthritis.
RSA then asked external claims handlers to look into the claim. They did so, including 
speaking with Mrs G. Having done so they said the claim wasnt covered and noted that:
The vets were aware that M had patella luxation.
This was likely the cause of his unusual gait/walking gingerly.
X-rays hadnt produced another cause for that.
The vets had linked the claim for the x-ray costs with a condition  patella luxation  
first diagnosed in January 2017 and that it was likely the policy wouldnt cover it.
I've thought very carefully about whether RSAs decision, which was to essentially say that 
the x-rays were required because of a pre-existing condition, was fair. I should say that I 
have no veterinary qualifications. My role in deciding this complaint doesnt require that I 
have them. Instead Ill give my opinion based mainly on what the evidence shows me is a 
fair and reasonable outcome in line with the policy terms.
It seems to me that when the vets ordered the x-rays they did so because M was in pain and 
discomfort which, in part, displayed by walking gingerly. The vets weren't certain what was 
causing that and the x-rays were to investigate it. So the x-rays were ordered to try to find 
out why M was walking gingerly. Although I note that the vets also did other investigations, 
including blood tests and a scan of M's abdomen, which I think was likely to also investigate 
the cause of Ms vomiting. But, when planning x-rays the vets were clearly aware they had 
previous diagnosed M with patella luxation as their notes refer to it.
Vets then recorded that the x-rays didnt find anything remarkable but did confirm that M 
suffered from low-grade patella luxation. And they said that was likely causing M to walk 
gingerly. In other words, at that time, while they didnt make a definitive diagnosis, the vets 
concluded it was more likely than not that the cause of M's unusual gait was patella luxation. 
And as the patella luxation was a pre-existing condition when Mrs G took out her policy the 
claim wasnt covered by it.I note the vets also x-rayed M's spine and hips and looked for other causes of his unusual 
gait. Had they found another cause of M's unusual gait unrelated to his patella issue, then I 
might have said it would be fair for RSA to pay the costs of the x-rays, but they didnt. The 
only cause of the unusual gait they could find was the patella luxation. That means it was 
patella luxation which had led to the need to carry out the x-rays. And, as the policy doesn't 
cover anything arising from that condition  because it was diagnosed before Mrs G took out 
her policy  then those x-rays wouldnt be covered by the policy either.
The evidence also shows that, prior to claiming on Mrs Gs behalf for the x-rays the vets 
were aware that the patella issue most likely wouldnt be covered by the policy. Their note of 
the 9 April 2021 clearly shows that the claim they were intending to submit was related to 
luxating patellas and that it probably wasn't covered because they diagnosed it before Mrs G 
took out her RSA policy. And their later note said that, as they thought, RSA had turned 
down the claim. But it seems the vets then changed their tune, presumably after asking 
Mrs G to pay the cost of the x-rays. At that point they said they knew M's luxating patellas 
didnt cause pain and were looking for another cause of it. But I dont find this later evidence 
persuasive.
The vets had previously noted that they were looking for a cause of both M's history of pain 
and abnormal gait. They had clearly connected the two issues together, and they carried-out 
x-rays to investigate. Their only finding was that M had luxating patellas. I dont consider that 
to be an incidental finding. They only made two findings: the first that M had luxating 
patellas, the second was that they didnt find another cause for his pain or unusual gait. Its 
also very clear that they had considered the issue to be pre-existing prior to submitting the 
claim; that they expected RSA to turn it down; and werent surprised when it did so. I think 
that is powerful evidence that the vets were fully aware that the x-ray costs were associated 
with a pre-existing condition. And in those circumstances I think it was reasonable for RSA to 
also decide that the x-ray costs were associated with a pre-existing condition and so not 
covered by the policy. It follows that I dont think RSA acted unfairly when it declined to pay 
that part of Mrs Gs claim.
Neither Mrs G nor RSA provided any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs G nor RSA objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to depart from 
it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman