DRN-3493784
The complaint
Mr P complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr P is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In August 2017, Mr P was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mr P decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In July 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ps behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr P to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would pay for itself (in other words it would be self-funding) 
Over the lifetime of the system Mr P would make a significant amount of money.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr P or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mr P and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
Mr P has told the CMC:
oHe had never seen the quote 
oHad it been presented to him, based the predicted savings, he would not 
have gone ahead with the installation.
oHe didn't realise the voltage optimiser was an optional extra that he paid for, 
he thought that it was included in the package. He doesnt recall being told it 
was an option or the cost of it.
The quote is not accurate against the actual savings the system has produced.
Mr P was not taken through the quote which was not produced until after the sale 
had been agreed.
Mr P does not believe he ever received a copy of the quote.
Mr P purchased the system to make money, not to wait 19 years just to break even.
The system would not be appealing to a consumer based on the solar quote in 
isolation.
There are hundreds of similar allegations of the same sales practices.
The High Court has found in favour of claimants in similar circumstances.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr P paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr P could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr P and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr P says that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mr Ps testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. Mr P says he has never seen the quote until we sent a copy to the CMC. But Im aware that 
he did agree to the purchase. And that the sales process usually involved the quote being 
filled in on a tablet or laptop and generated during the sales meeting  allowing the 
salesperson to confirm the cost and talk to the customer about the benefits of the system 
while showing the quote to them. The customer would then indicate agreement to the 
purchase by signing the quote on the tablet or laptop during the meeting. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. Although Mr P doesnt remember seeing it or being 
talked through it, I think it is more likely that did happen rather than the salesperson 
completely departing from the usual sales process, telling Mr P something that contradicts 
what the quote says, and the sale going through without Mr P signing the quote. 
So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr Ps version of events when considering if 
there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr P was told that the cost of the system was £6,675.00. The 
quote sets this out clearly  including the voltage optimiser. This is also supported by the 
credit agreement which sets out that the cash price of the system was £6,675.00. The 
monthly payment was £69.70. The total amount of credit is £6,675.00 and goes on to show 
that the total amount payable would be £12,546.00.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Ps recollections, Im satisfied that they 
were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £6,675.00, it would 
cost Mr P more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Mr P has said that he was told the system would pay for itself or be self-funding. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P as well as the Mr Ps recollections of their 
meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
Theres a section headed Finance Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr P entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £70.25. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £70.25, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. I think the table clearly sets out the total benefit Mr P could expect to receive from the 
system for each year of the loan term. It clearly shows that the overall benefits he could 
expect to receive would not be sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments until the last 
year of the loan (and then only just). 
Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson 
went through at the meeting. So, bearing in mind whats shown in the table above, I dont 
think I can reasonably find that Mr P was told that the system would pay for itself within the 
term of the loan.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr P that the system would pay for itself or be self-funding. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the start. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr P was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The what will you earn and save per year page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 19 the overall benefits that Mr P could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr P that the system would pay for itself by 
year 19, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr P. I have looked at Mr Ps FIT statements and Im satisfied that 
the system is performing as expected based on the statements provided.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between the sale 
and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I 
think this explains why Mr P hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr P couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr P entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr P to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman