DRN-3709731
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how National Savings and Investments (NS&I) failed to make clear the 
income tax implications of changes it made to the terms and conditions of its guaranteed 
growth bonds.
What happened
Mr S holds £240,000 across seven NS&I bonds. They mature in 2023, 2024 and 2026. He 
initially held them on terms that permitted early access, but from May 2019 NS&I changed 
the terms of its guaranteed growth bonds so account holders could no longer withdraw their 
funds until maturity. This impacted the way interest had to be declared to HMRC. Despite it 
being credited to the bond annually, it would be treated by HMRC as being received at the 
point of maturity. This is because that was now the time at which it became available to the 
account holder. 
NS&I wrote to Mr S about each bond giving at least 30 days notice of the change and 
explaining how interest would be regarded by HMRC. It explained the bonds would roll on if 
he agreed to the new terms (he could select the bond term), or he could cash them in - but 
as they hadnt matured there would be a penalty. As Mr S did not get in touch it assumed he 
wanted to renew his bonds, and he therefore accepted the new terms. 
Mr S says he only became aware of the implications of the change after his bonds had rolled 
over onto the new terms. It means he will be in a higher tax bracket when his bonds finally 
mature, he will have to move to self-assessment which he does not want to do and if he 
disposes of any assets it will affect his capital gains position. He wants to cash in all of his 
seven bonds now, without any loss of interest or any penalty, and he seeks compensation 
for the stress and inconvenience this has caused. He has dyslexia and feels NS&I did not 
consider how this impacts how he reviews documents.
When Mr S initially complained to NS&I there was also a point about incorrect reporting on a 
bond, but the lender upheld that part of his complaint and paid Mr S £75 compensation to 
apologise. But NS&I did not agree it had done anything wrong with regards this terms 
change or the way interest is now declared. As Mr S is a vulnerable customer it did however 
say it would consider his request to close the bonds early.
Mr S told our investigator he wanted to do this and encash his bonds early. He asked for 
£20,000 to be transferred to his bank account the balance to be placed in a NS&I Green 
Bond. He wanted NS&I to be aware he had paid tax annually on his bonds. He asked we still 
review his complaint.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. He found that NS&I had sent the required 
notice of the change to the terms for each bond and made clear how the interest would be 
applied and in which tax year it would need to be considered. He added that as Mr S had 
already indicated he wanted to close the bonds mid-term he should contact NS&I directly to 
see if this was an option. 
NS&I later confirmed it had been aware of Mr Ss vulnerability from December 2017. It had 
allowed him to open the bonds by phone when it was an online only product to 
accommodate his needs, and later made other adjustments when its products required an 
email address, which he does not have. It confirmed Mr S did not request any other 
adjustments then. In February 2022 Mr S had a call with NS&I where it ran through all 
possible adjustments and he confirmed what he required. None of its actions were contrary 
to his requirements. It felt Mr S had received the same information about each of his seven 
bonds, so he had ample opportunity to call with any queries, or if he didnt understand the 
notices. It had been 16 months after the first notice before Mr S got in touch. Our investigator 
felt this was a fair and reasonable position.
Mr S was unhappy with this assessment. He said the communication was not clear enough:  
the tax information was not in the main letter, and the bank was aware he had dyslexia. He 
thinks it should automatically have changed how it communicated with him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
I am sorry Mr S has suffered such stress and worry over his investments, but what I have to 
decide is if NS&I did anything wrong that was the cause of this impact on Mr S.  
I am satisfied it sent the required notices that its terms were changing from 1 May 2019.     
Mr S feels the impact of the changes on the tax treatment ought to have been made clear in 
the covering letter. The letter signposted Mr S to the Customer agreement. This had, 
upfront, on page two, a separate section headed About tax that made clear The interest 
you earn on your Guaranteed Growth Bond counts towards your Personal Savings 
Allowance in the tax year that your Bond matures, together with any interest you earn from 
other taxable savings. This same information was also included in the summary box. 
Mr S says the bank knew he was dyslexic and so should have automatically adjusted how it 
communicated with him. But I cant see Mr S had requested any specific changes to written 
communications. Im not sure, it could have safely assumed, how a written document would 
have best worked for Mr S. Indeed, I think its decision to include summary information and to 
highlight key impacts in standalone boxes was most likely in order to make the information 
as accessible and clear as possible.
I can see the bank was aware from 2017 that Mr S could not engage in digital processes, 
and that as a result it had made reasonable adjustments so he could open online bonds on 
the phone. It has then shown it later captured more information about his requirements after 
a call in 2022, and whilst I acknowledge this was after the correspondence in question, this 
shows he had confirmed he still wanted postal and not digital communication. There was no 
request for adaptations to the layout of written correspondence, such as a larger font size. 
So I cant fairly find NS&I ignored or overlooked his vulnerability  although I do of course 
accept the documentation may not have worked for Mr S. Its rather I cannot find this was as 
a result of a failing on NS&Is part. And I have to take into account NS&Is point that Mr S 
received seven such notices and was able to call if he had any concerns on receipt. 
As Mr S is complaining that NS&I failed to make reasonable adjustments for him, I need to 
consider that he is, in other words, saying it breached the Equality Act 2010. In terms of this 
point about discrimination, it is for the Courts to determine if a business has acted unlawfully. 
Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of each particular case. In reaching that decision, we will consider various factors including relevant law and 
what we see as good industry practice from the time.
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not NS&I has breached the Equality Act
2010, Im required to take it into account, if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did so as part of my review of this case. For the reasons Ive set out above, from what I 
have seen Im satisfied that NS&Is actions were fair and reasonable. If there remain 
reasonable adjustments Mr S needs NS&I to make he should let it know. We would expect it 
to comply, subject to what it can and cant do, and how it operates.
Finally, I know there have been discussions about the consideration NS&I agreed to give to 
Mr Ss request to encash his bonds early. Most recently, it explained that it feels as Mr S 
intends to encash his bonds and invest his funds at a higher rate, it could not facilitate this as 
it would not be fair to other customers. It said it would however allow Mr S, as an exception, 
to cash in the one bond that he had complained about initially. Our investigator clarified he 
was not instructing NS&I to do this; he had only passed on to Mr S that it might consider this. 
As I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint neither would I be looking to make any such 
instruction. Mr S should contact NS&I directly to progress this.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman