DRN-1579777
 
The complaint
Ms S says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Ms S bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint because:
I think Barclaycard made Ms S aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to 
take it. I say this because Ms S's credit card application form was completed to show 
that she wanted the cover. There was a box on the form that could've been 
completed if Ms S hadn't wanted the cover.
Barclaycard can't say for sure how the policy was sold, but it's treated Ms S's 
complaint as though it recommended the PPI to her. It doesnt look as if the PPI was 
unsuitable for Ms S based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Even 
though Ms S says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer, the policy would've 
paid out in addition to these. The policy would've allowed Ms S to use her employer 
sick pay and any savings she had to cover other expenses.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But its unlikely Ms S would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit . So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman