DRN-2263845
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank plc acted unfairly by defaulting his accounts when he 
was seriously ill.
What happened
Mr B had a savings account, a current account and a credit card account with HSBC. He 
was abroad in December 2017 when he had a serious road traffic accident. He says he was 
very unwell as a result and unable to come back to the UK until July 2019.
He says he contacted HSBC when he returned and told it about his circumstances. He says 
he wanted it to remove the defaults recorded on his credit file so that he could continue his 
banking relationship with HSBC. He says HSBC didnt deal with his concerns and he then 
made a formal complaint in June 2020.
Mr B says he provided HSBC with medical evidence to support what he had told it. He says 
hed told HSBC in 2017 to cancel all his direct debits. He says it hadnt done that and his 
account became overdrawn as a result. 
Even after hed explained his medical circumstances to it, he says HSBC refused to remove 
the default. He says other organisations have treated him differently. He says HSBC 
defaulted his credit card account and his current account and then closed them. He says it 
couldve used the funds in his savings account to clear the outstanding debts. 
HSBC investigated his complaint. It said it had checked its files and there was no record Mr 
B had asked it to cancel his direct debits. It also said there wasnt enough funds in the 
savings account to cover the outstanding debts. It had sent him letters and online messages 
about his accounts, but he hadnt responded. So, it said it hadnt done anything wrong when 
it defaulted the accounts and reported this to credit reference agencies. 
HSBC said Mr B had provided a doctors note but because this was in a foreign language it 
hadnt been able to read it. HSBC said it would carry out a further review if Mr B provided an 
English translation of the doctors note and any further evidence of his medical 
circumstances.
Mr B wasnt satisfied, so he complained to our service. Our investigator looked into his 
complaint. She said shed asked HSBC to carry out a thorough search of its systems to 
check if Mr B had contacted it to cancel his direct debits. She was satisfied there was no 
record that hed done that. She said shed listened to a call in November 2017 when Mr B 
had said he was going abroad. But he hadnt asked for his direct debits to be cancelled.
Our investigator said she understood the difficult circumstances Mr B had experienced after 
his car accident in December 2017. But she said shed also listened to a call Mr B had made 
to HSBC in January 2018. He was still abroad at that time, but he didnt tell HSBC about the 
car accident. He had asked for various transfers to be made and hed enquired about 
charges on his account and a transaction which he was expecting. She thought this 
supported a view that, despite the accident, Mr B was able to manage his accounts.
Our investigator also considered the fact that Mr B hadnt raised any issues about his 
accounts until October 2019. Hed returned to the UK in July 2019. She said HSBC had sent 
letters and online messages to Mr B about the state of his accounts in 2018. Mr B hadnt 
contacted it about any of these messages. In these circumstances she thought HSBC had 
acted fairly when it defaulted the accounts and closed them. She didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr B didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id just point out that in this decision Im only dealing with what Mr B has told us 
about HSBCs decision not to remove the defaults it registered with credit reference 
agencies about his current account and his credit card account. Mr B has raised various 
other matters. HSBC hasnt provided its final response on those matters yet. So, Im only 
dealing with matters here that HSBC has already provided its final response to.
Mr B had a very serious car accident in December 2017 when he was abroad. As a result, 
he says he wasnt able to return to the UK until July 2019. HSBC defaulted his credit card 
account and his current account in August 2018. Mr B thinks this shouldnt have happened 
because he was incapacitated after the car accident and because he says hed told HSBC in 
2017 to cancel all of his direct debits. Ill consider these two points separately.
Direct debits
Mr B says he contacted HSBC in 2017 and asked it to cancel all his direct debits. 
As our investigator said HSBC has no record to support what Mr B has said. 
Ive looked at the statements for the current account and these show there were two direct 
debits set up on the account. One of these was for the credit card which Mr B held with 
HSBC and the other was for an account he held with a third party. HSBC cancelled the direct 
debit for the credit card in March 2018 and it cancelled the other direct debit in February 
2018. It did this because the overdraft limit had been exceeded.
Even if, as Mr B has said, he told HSBC to cancel these direct debits in 2017, he wouldve 
needed to make alternative arrangements for these two payments. I can see that when the 
direct debit to his credit card was cancelled the credit card account defaulted. So, theres no 
indication he had made alternative arrangements to pay this direct debit.
It is also the case that when Mr B phoned HSBC in January 2018 he asked about the 
balance on his current account. He was told the amount by which it was overdrawn. He 
didnt express any surprise about this or ask how this had happened. So, Im not persuaded 
hed asked HSBC in 2017 to cancel his direct debits. 
Incapacity following car accident
HSBC has provided evidence it sent various letters to Mr B at the address on its records, 
informing him about the status of his accounts and requesting him to make a payment. 
Default notices and termination letters were issued. HSBC also sent documents to Mr B 
through online banking. Mr B says he didnt get any of these letters. It is the case he was abroad when they were 
sent. And, hes provided evidence he was involved in a car accident which meant he had to 
spend time in hospital when he was abroad.  So, when he explained this to HSBC, Id expect 
it to have reviewed its decision to default the accounts.
HSBC says it has done that. It asked Mr B for medical evidence to support what hed said. 
But, it says, the medical evidence wasnt enough to persuade it he couldnt have managed 
his finances. It asked for a copy of the medical note to be provided in English.
Mr B has provided a copy of the medical note from the doctor who was responsible for his 
care when he was abroad. Ive read a translation of the medical note. It indicates that 
following a car accident in December 2017 Mr B was in a coma for three days. His injuries 
meant he had ongoing medical problems and it was seventeen months before his doctor 
considered he was well enough to travel back to the UK.
Having read the medical note theres no dispute that Mr Bs health was seriously impacted 
as a result of the car accident. And he was subject to medical supervision for a lengthy 
period of time after the accident happened because of ongoing problems. But the issue I 
have to decide is whether, as a result of what happened, he was unable to manage his 
finances. Ive considered his interactions with HSBC in the period after the accident 
happened.
Mr B phoned HSBC on 15 January 2018. That was just a month after the car accident 
happened.  Ive listened to that call. Mr B didnt mention the car accident during the call or 
provide any indication he was experiencing financial or other problems. He gave instructions 
for an internal transfer of funds from his savings account to his current account. And he gave 
a further instruction for an external transfer of funds to an account with a different bank. He 
also made enquiries about a transaction he was expecting to debit his account and asked 
about bank charges. 
Mr B enquired about the balances on his accounts. He was told that the current account was 
overdrawn but was still within the arranged limit. So, he was aware that there was a debit 
balance on this account.
Having listened to this call, whilst I can understand Mr B was still recovering from a car 
accident, theres nothing to indicate he was unable to manage his finances. He said he didnt 
have access to the internet to check his bank account. But he was still able to telephone the 
bank to make enquiries and give instructions.
I dont see any evidence Mr B made further contact with HSBC until July 2019 when he 
provided details of a change of address and asked for copy statements. He didnt mention 
anything about the car accident until October 2019 which was several months after he 
returned to the UK. When he told HSBC about the car accident, he said his credit card had 
been stolen at the time of the accident and he queried card transactions that had taken place 
after that date. HSBC has confirmed it refunded all of the disputed card transactions.
It wasnt until June 2020 that Mr B started to query why his accounts had been defaulted. 
Hed been told in January 2018 there was a debit balance on the current account. He 
doesnt appear to have made any arrangements to pay any money into the account to 
reduce that debit balance. And he doesnt appear to have contacted HSBC to enquire about 
the status of the account. He didnt phone again from abroad after January 2018. And, even 
after he returned to the UK in July 2019, he didnt raise an issue about the defaults until 
nearly a year later.I can see the accounts were closed in August 2018. So, Mr B wouldnt have been able to 
carry out any transactions on the current account or the credit card account since that date. 
And, he doesnt appear to have queried or challenged this either until a year after he 
returned to the UK. 
Having considered everything here, I dont think HSBC acted unfairly when it defaulted the 
accounts. I accept that Mr Bs medical condition prevented his return to the UK until July 
2019, but Im not satisfied itd be fair to tell HSBC it should remove the defaults its recorded 
at credit reference agencies for the reasons Ive given. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman