DRN-3697985
The complaint
Miss T has complained about her car insurer Calpe Insurance Company Limited because it 
declined a claim she made to it following an accident and cancelled her policy, accusing her 
of fraud.
What happened
Miss T reported an accident to Calpe in February 2021. She was initially claiming through 
the other drivers insurer but Calpe did interview Miss T in March 2021. At the time it was 
satisfied that she was credible and this was likely a genuine non-fault accident. However, the 
other insurer wouldnt settle the claims made against its policyholders cover. The other 
insurer detailed various concerns it had to Calpe. In October 2021 Calpe interviewed Miss T 
again. This time the interviewer raised various concerns, in line with those detailed to Calpe 
by the other insurer. Calpe then decided to decline Miss Ts claim and cancel her policy on 
grounds of fraud. Miss T complained to us.
Our Investigator noted that Calpe hadnt provided much persuasive proof that Miss T had 
been involved in or made a fraudulent claim. So he felt Calpe had acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in relying on the fraud condition on the policy. He said it should reinstate the 
policy, remove the record of the cancellation that had been logged as well as write a letter 
confirming this was overturned, consider the claim and pay Miss T £150 compensation.
Miss T did not respond. Calpe objected to the view. It said both it and the other insurer had 
concerns about the accident, which should not be ignored.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Calpe has some concerns about this accident. But Calpe knows that this 
service expects insurers wanting to rely on a fraud condition to decline a claim and cancel or 
void a policy, to present strong evidence to support such an accusation. That is because 
fraud is a serious matter with significant consequences for a policyholder. An insurer having 
some concerns, even a number of concerns, and/or a feeling about a claim may not be 
enough to satisfy this service that reliance on the fraud condition of the policy is fair and 
reasonable.
Here I think it is of note that Calpe first interviewed Miss T within about a month of the 
accident. Calpes investigator at that time  when forming his own conclusions about Miss T 
and the incident  found no issues for concern. In fact, he found Miss T credible and felt that 
a genuine incident, which was not Miss Ts fault, had occurred. In doing that he had 
available to him photos of the scene taken after the incident once the cars had been moved, 
he undertook on-line investigations of Miss T and he was also aware that the other insurer 
had some concerns, although not what they were. He concluded it was unclear why, from 
what he had seen, that concerns existed.  
It was several months later when Calpe received detail from the other insurer. That detail 
caused Calpe to interview Miss T again. But other than sharing its concerns the other insurer 
hadnt presented any proof to Calpe that Miss T was involved in a staged incident. For 
example, there were no reports comparing the cars damage. And no additional photographs 
from the scene were provided. 
Having seen the report from Calpes second investigator, certain assumptions seem to have 
been made when interviewing Miss T. One concern raised by the other insurer was that its 
policyholder could not describe Miss T. Calpes second investigator, based on how Miss T 
presented herself in interview in October 2021, some eight months after the incident, said 
Miss T was striking, such that it was implausible the other driver wouldnt have been able to 
describe her. And when Miss T said she looked different then, in October 2021, from earlier 
in the year when she had then been a new mother, the investigator suggested that was an 
unreasonable description for Miss T to use as her baby, at the time of the incident was eight 
months old. I think Miss Ts explanation is quite reasonable. Im also aware she didnt get out 
of the car straight-away. I think the investigator hasnt approached this in a fair manner, not 
least as his view of how Miss T appeared, eight months after the incident, doesnt 
reasonably establish how the other driver is most likely to have viewed Miss T. And I also 
think its unreasonable for Calpe to punish Miss T for any failure in the other drivers memory 
or lack of ability to describe Miss T.
The investigator also reported some concerns he had about the position of the debris in the 
road. But I think its relevant that he did so seeing the same photographs of the scene as the 
original investigator. Whilst it is possible for two different people to come to different 
conclusions, I think its telling that the second conclusion was only reached after the other 
insurers concerns had been made known. And I dont otherwise find the concerns raised in 
these respects to be persuasive  not least as the second investigator hasnt sought any 
detail about the exact position of the cars when they came together. And no formal analysis 
of road speed, positioning or impact data has been given which might support the conclusion 
stated. 
I know the second investigator found Miss T had been going in the wrong direction for her 
stated purpose of the journey  going shopping. I can understand that this would be a 
concern. But I see Miss T explained that she had needed to call back home to get her purse. 
Again I think the investigator took an overly critical and, therefore, unreasonable view of this 
explanation  stating he felt it was implausible as Miss Ts partner and sister were with her, 
so they could have paid for the shopping instead. He seems to have ignored Miss Ts 
comments that her partners bank card was in her purse and that it wasnt appropriate, even 
for a short-time, for her to borrow money from her sister. I think Miss T was asked the 
purpose of her journey, in March and October, and her story remained the same  going to 
the shops. I havent seen anything from Calpe that disproves that. And Miss Ts later 
clarification that, on the way to the shops, she had to turn round and go home, doesnt 
change the fact that the purpose of her being on the road that night, was to go to the shops. 
Overall I dont think Calpe has completed a sufficient investigation or gathered sufficiently 
persuasive evidence to support its accusation of fraud. As such I think it acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in applying the fraud condition to decline the claim and cancel or void Miss Ts 
policy. It follows that I think it must now set that right by putting Miss T back in the position 
she would have been in, as identified by our Investigator, if it had not acted unfairly and 
unreasonably. It will also have to pay her £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused her, which I think is fair and reasonable in this instance.
  
Putting things right
I require Calpe to:Reinstate Miss Ts policy and consider her claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Remove the record of the cancellation or voidance from its own and any industry 
database.
Provide a letter to Miss T confirming that the cancellation or voidance has been 
overturned.
Pay Miss T £150 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman