DRN-2115695
The complaint
Miss G complains IGO4 Limited mis-sold her car insurance policy. 
Miss G has been represented in this complaint by Mrs G. 
 
What happened
Miss G took out a car insurance policy with IGO4 online. A condition of the policy was that a 
telematics (black box) was installed in Miss Gs car which monitored and rated her driving. 
IGO4 sent Miss G a letter to say her driving score had dropped below 40. It explained she 
would need to take action to increase this score or her policy may be cancelled at the next 
review.  It suggested that as Miss G regularly drove after 10pm, she could perhaps increase 
her driving during daytime hours to mitigate its impact. Suggestions were also made of how 
to improve ratings for acceleration and braking. 
Mrs G complained on behalf of Miss G that the impact of regular night driving wasnt made 
clear when the policy was sold.  Mrs G asked IGO4 to explain how its ratings were 
calculated and said that she considered the policy to have been mis-sold.
IGO4 said it provided Miss G with information about how the policy worked when she took it 
out online. It said its suggestions to Miss G were intended to help her identify how she could 
improve her driving score. As Miss G had gone on to cancel the policy IGO4 said it would 
waive the cancellation charge, but she would still need to pay for the days she was covered 
and the £180 fee for the black box.  
Mrs G brought the complaint to our service, she said she considered the policy had been 
mis-sold and that IGO4 should refund the cost of the black box as Miss G wouldnt have 
taken the policy, or activated the box, if shed fully understood how the policy worked. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said having 
looked at the information provided at the time of sale he thought the impact of driving at night 
was made clear, so he didnt think the policy had been mis-sold.
Mrs G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In doing so she 
reiterated she didnt think the information concerning driving at night was clear. And, she 
thought how the driving score was calculated, should have been explained in detail.
Further developments
I wrote to both parties on 6 October 2020 to explain that I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint for the following reasons:
IGO4 needed to provide Miss G with sufficient information about the policy to allow her to 
make an informed choice about whether or not it was suitable for her.
IGO4 has provided information to this service of the quote journey a consumer is taken 
through when they buy a policy  that is each screen they see as they click through the 
quote and application process. I can see from this journey, information is provided quite 
prominently on the screen about driving at night (10pm -5am) and it is also mentioned in 
the key terms. IGO4 has shown this wording and its position on the page has changed 
slightly recently. While I cant be certain which version Miss G saw when she bought the 
policy, Im satisfied its more likely than not she was given information that driving at 
night would impact the driving score. I do appreciate however that Miss G didnt realise 
how significant driving at night would be to her score.
We wouldnt expect insurers to explain exactly how their scoring systems work as this is 
commercially sensitive information. What I would expect to see however is that Miss G 
was made aware of the basics of the policy and what factors can influence her driving 
score before she chose to buy the policy. I can see this was explained and she was 
made aware that factors such as acceleration, braking and speed, mileage and time of 
day are tracked and rated on.
Further information on how the policy works was included in the Q&A section of the 
website and there was a link to further information from the quote screen. While Miss G 
didnt have to click through this to continue with the quote, information was provided by 
IGO4 on its website should she have wanted to understand in more detail how the policy 
worked.
The fee for the black box is non-refundable and Miss G was made aware of this before 
she purchased the policy.
Mrs G responded saying that regardless of the online journey, she still thought IGO4 should 
have explained the scoring system in detail. Miss G then would have been able to decide 
whether she wanted to take the policy. 
IGO4 didnt provide any further comment.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont see any reason to depart from my provisional findings. While I 
appreciate Mrs Gs frustration with what has happened. As I explained in my provisional 
thoughts, I wouldnt expect IGO4 to detail in full exactly how the scoring system worked, and 
the driving score calculated  as this is commercially sensitive information.
Im satisfied Miss G was provided with sufficient information about the policy and how it 
worked, to enable her to make an informed decision whether or not to purchase it. So, I dont 
think the policy was mis-sold or that IGO4 need to do anything more here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint against IGO4 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2020. 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman