DRN-4105432
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C have complained that they were given incorrect information by The Royal 
London Mutual Insurance Society Limited which disadvantaged them financially. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. In summary Royal London 
accepted that it made an error in that Mrs C and Mr Cs financial advisor was told that the 
critical illness payment they would receive for their childs critical illness claim if the claim 
was accepted would be £50,000. In fact, the correct policy benefit was £30,000 and this 
amount was paid. Royal London admitted its error, apologised, and offered compensation of 
£350.
Our investigator recommended that compensation be increased to a total £600. Royal 
London agreed to this increase. Mrs C and Mr C asked for an ombudsman to decide.
As the background is not in dispute, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint, no discourtesy is intended by 
this. Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this 
approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. I recognise that Mrs C and Mr C will be disappointed by my decision and Im 
sorry this decision doesnt bring more welcome news. But for the following reasons I agree 
with the conclusion reached by our investigator:
I accept Mrs C and Mr C made financial decisions based on the advice they received. 
Royal London had advised that if their claim was accepted, they should receive 
£50,000. Although they hadnt spent the money, they had made plans based on their 
understanding that they would be receiving it. I agree that it must have been very 
disappointing and upsetting when they learned the advice had been incorrect. Im 
pleased to note that Royal London apologised and offered a payment in 
compensation. 
Mrs C and Mr Cs policy didnt entitle them to a payment of £50,000. In the 
circumstances therefore I cant say that Royal London is obliged to make the claim 
payment up to that amount due to the error it made. I do agree though that 
compensation is merited for the trouble and distress Mrs C and Mr C were caused by 
the error, which would have come at a difficult time for them. I find a total payment of 
£600 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited to pay Mrs C and Mr C a total of £600 in compensation. Any 
amount already paid in compensation may be deducted from this sum.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman