DRN-3327147
The complaint
Mrs Gs complaint about Nationwide Building Society (NBS) relates to her requests for 
information about historic payments she made towards her mortgage.
What happened
Mrs G had a joint mortgage with her husband with NBS. That mortgage was ultimately 
redeemed in 2014. Prior to that there were some specific large payments made to the 
mortgage account between 2003 and 2009. Mrs G believes that she paid £73,000 on 27 
January 2003, £8,614.50 on 10 January 2009, and £6,000.02 on a date she was unable to 
precisely recall.
Mrs G asked NBS if they could tell her where the payments made to the account had 
originated, in order to help her prove that it was she, rather than her husband, who had 
made the payments. 
NBS were able to tell Mrs G that the payments of £73,000 and £8,614.50 had been made to 
the mortgage account by cheque, but the other payment they couldnt identify as being 
received. Due to the passage of time NBS said it no longer held copies of the cheque 
images and were unable to answer Mrs Gs question as to where the payments had come 
from.
Mrs G was unhappy with NBS final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that NBS hadnt done anything 
wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Mrs G didnt agree and asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I empathise with Mrs G as it must be extremely frustrating to try proving a point, which one 
already knows to be true, and the information you need is no longer available. That said, it 
would seem Mrs G does need to prove to the satisfaction of others, that she made three 
payments to her joint mortgage account, and to that end has sought assistance from NBS.
The information/documents which would have assisted Mrs G would have been the image of 
the cheques which NBS received, and/or any data showing from where the cheques 
originated. The original cheques were received by NBS over 12 years ago and are now 
simply no longer in existence because they have been deleted/destroyed. The question 
which then naturally arises is whether it was reasonable for NBS to have deleted/destroyed 
such information. 
In my view NBS policy of retaining information/documentation for six years is fair and 
reasonable and one adopted by many businesses. There has to be a policy of 
deleting/destroying data and that necessarily means there needs to be a cut off period of 
some definition. And NBS certainly have a policy, in so far as the time periods for retention 
of data is concerned, which complies with the laws on data protection. So, I cant say that 
NBS have acted unfairly towards Mrs G in deleting or disposing of her data.
Ive also looked, more generally, at whether NBS treated Mrs G fairly in dealing with her 
request. I can see that they did investigate their own records to try and locate the information 
she sought. They were able to tell her when two of the payments were made, how they were 
made, and into which branch they were paid. 
They also checked to see if the third payment Mrs G had identified was paid to the mortgage 
account and were able to say that they had no record of it. The mortgage statements 
available show no irregularities or errors which might reveal where this payment went to 
either.
So, I am satisfied that NBS took reasonable steps to help Mrs G in so far as they could with 
the remaining information they had at their disposal. They provided Mrs G with all available 
information regarding the payments of £73,000 and £8,614.50 made to the account and 
confirmed that from the available records there was no evidence of a payment of £6,000.02. 
This leads me to the conclusion that NBS were acting fairly.
So, although Mrs G will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say NBS has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman