DRN-3407869
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the fees he is being charged by Hartley Pensions Limited for
administering his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). Hes also unhappy with Hartleys
administration of his SIPP and in particular, with the delays hes experienced in trying to
withdraw some of his pension from the SIPP.
What happened
For ease of reference, Ive set out the relevant parties below that Ill refer to within this
provisional decision.
Blackstar Wealth Management
An Independent Financial Advisor who advised Mr P to transfer his pension funds into the
SIPP.
Greyfriars Asset Management LLP
Greyfriars was a regulated SIPP provider and provided Mr Ps SIPP until 25 October 2018.
Hartley Pensions
A regulated SIPP operator, who acquired Greyfriars book of business and which acquired
Mr Ps pension by novation from Greyfriars on 25 October 2018.
Hartley SAS Limited
The pension scheme administrator, which conducts the day to day administration for Hartley
Pensions. Hartley SAS collects Mr Ps fees from his SIPP.
In 2014, Blackstar advised Mr P to transfer his existing pension provision into a Greyfriars
SIPP. A SIPP was established and Mr Ps pension funds were used to invest in Colonial
Capital and AJ Bell funds. A private bank account was set-up alongside the SIPP, for the
receipt of investment returns and for the payment of Greyfriars annual administration fee of
£600.
Unfortunately, in March 2017, Colonial Capital went into administration. The value of Mr Ps
investment with Colonial Capital reduced to £1 and the fund became illiquid.
In 2018, Mr P got in touch with Greyfriars to request an uncrystallised funds pension lump
sum (UFPLS). He learned that Hartley had acquired his SIPP and so in November 2018, he
contacted Hartley to request a UFPLS from the AJ Bell investment and his cash funds from
the associated bank account. Hartley didnt respond to Mr Ps request and so in February
2019, Mr P got back in touch.
Hartley did send Mr P the relevant paperwork at this point. It told Mr P that his SIPP held the
following funds:
AJ Bell Investment: £3397.90
Colonial Capital: £1
Cash: £745.45
Hartley told Mr P that it could pay him his benefits, so long as he kept £2000 in the AJ Bell
investment, in line with the terms of that fund. It also said that it couldnt close the SIPP
because the Colonial Capital investment was illiquid. Mr P returned the paperwork promptly
to request a UFPLS, but it appears Hartley took no action at that point. Also in February
2019, Hartley applied a £300 administration fee to Mr Ps SIPP account. Thats because
Greyfriars had only debited half of Mr Ps annual £600 fee in May 2018  it had written to
him at the time to explain that it was deferring half of the fee.
In March 2019, Hartley sent Mr P an invoice for his annual £600 fee. As there were
insufficient funds in the associated SIPP bank account to cover the fees, Hartley told Mr P
hed need to pay the shortfall balance of £154.07. It chased this payment in May 2019 and
threatened Mr P with legal action if he didnt make payment.
Mr P was unhappy with Hartleys administration of his SIPP. He didnt think he ought to have
to pay the annual fee as hed requested a UFPLS in November 2018, which Hartley hadnt
actioned. Hartley maintained that the fee was due because it said while Mr P had asked for a
UFPLS, the illiquidity of the Colonial Capital fund meant the SIPP couldnt be closed and
therefore, it would still be required to carry out a number of administrative tasks. It did
acknowledge though that Mr Ps UFPLS request ought to have been picked up far sooner
and it said it would action the request as a priority.
By November 2019, however, Mr Ps UFPLS request still hadnt been actioned and so he
asked us to look into his complaint. He also let us know that hed taken claims against
Blackstar and Greyfriars to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), which
couldnt be progressed by the FSCS because Hartley hadnt provided it with information itd
requested.
Our investigator thought Mr Ps complaint should be partly upheld. She didnt consider
Hartley had met its obligations under Principle Six of the Financial Conduct Authoritys
(FCAs) Principles for Business  the requirement for a financial business to act in its
customers best interests and to treat them fairly. She also referred to a thematic review
carried out by the FCAs predecessor which broadly stated that SIPP operators needed to
treat their customers fairly.
Customer service
In this case, the investigator noted that Hartley had caused delays in the arrangement of Mr
Ps UFPLS. Despite it telling Mr P in July 2019 that it would action his request as a priority, it
didnt contact him again until December 2019. It told Mr P at this point that the SIPP couldnt
be closed because of the illiquid Colonial Capital investment, but that he could withdraw
funds from the AJ Bell fund so long as he left £2000 in it. Hartley said that if the FSCS took
assignment of the Colonial Capital investment, the SIPP could be closed.
The investigator noted that Hartley had gone on to send Mr P the relevant paperwork so that
he could request a UFPLS in June 2020  over a year after he had first asked for this form.
She considered this was an unacceptable amount of time and that Hartley had fallen short of
its service standards. She also noted that Mr P had told us that Hartleys handling of his
request had caused him significant distress and inconvenience, especially as hed been left
unable to access his funds. She recommended that Hartley should pay Mr P £400
compensation in recognition of its errors. She recommended that Hartley should proactivelysend Mr P the paperwork he needed to carry out the UFPLS. She did state that the terms of
Mr Ps AJ Bell investment meant that he needed to keep a balance of £2000 in the fund. So
she thought Hartley was entitled to keep this amount of money in the fund and should pay
the remainder balance of the AJ Bell investment to Mr P.
SIPP Fees
The investigator acknowledged that Hartley hadnt accepted any liability for Greyfriars
actions and so she didnt think it could be held responsible for any fees Greyfriars had
charged. She noted that in March 2020, Mr P had been charged a further £600 annual fee,
which hadnt been paid due to the insufficiency of funds in his bank account.
She considered the administrative tasks Hartley SAS told us it carried out on Hartley
Pensions behalf, which it says need to be carried out irrespective of the value of a SIPP. But
she noted that Hartley hadnt provided any information to show what work it had carried out
in relation to Mr Ps SIPP since it acquired it  in particular, because Mr P had been trying to
withdraw his UFPLS since November 2018 and wanted the SIPP to be closed. She felt that if
Hartley had responded to Mr Ps initial request promptly and with the relevant instructions, it
wouldve been likely that hed have been paid the UFPLS within a couple of months. This
wouldve left only the illiquid Colonial Capital investment in the SIPP as the single asset,
which was more or less dormant. So she concluded it was unlikely that Hartley SAS
wouldve needed to carry out all of the administrative work itd referred to, or that if tasks did
arise, that significant work would be necessary.
The investigator looked into the SIPP products Hartley offered and noted that its website
said the following about annual administration charges:
The Annual Administration Fee is charged in advance and covers the day-to-day
administration of your SIPP. This include collecting pension contributions, claiming tax
relief, providing an annual valuation, and completing all HMRC and FCA reporting to
maintain the tax efficiency of your pension.
She saw that the same wording applied to all Hartley products and she didnt think Hartley
made any distinction between the types of work it carried out on different SIPP products.
Hartley offered a single asset Abacus SIPP for £175 per year plus VAT. This meant that
Hartley was charging Mr P more than it would a new customer, simply because of Mr Ps
previous fee agreement with Greyfriars, rather than because the £600 annual fee reflected
the work Hartley carried out. So she didnt think Hartley was treating Mr P fairly.
Additionally, she didnt think Hartley had given enough regard to the situation Mr P had
found himself in, or that it had done enough to help him. She considered that a transfer of
the Colonial Capital investment could only be made in specie and she didnt think any other
operator would be willing to accept such an investment. She felt this left Mr P effectively
trapped in the Hartley SIPP, as he couldnt shop around or close it.
So she recommended that Hartley should charge Mr P what its charging new customers for
its Abacus single asset SIPP, as his SIPP should now only be holding one asset. She
acknowledged that there is some work involved in the administration of Mr Ps SIPP
regardless of the situation with the asset held within it, so she thought this was fair to both
parties.
She acknowledged that the Abacus SIPP might not be a like for like comparison in the type
of SIPP that could house Mr Ps Colonial Capital investment, but she thought it was a
good benchmark of what Hartley could charge in comparison to other customers
who had come to them directly, in light of the likely work involved in administering Mr PsSIPP.
And she recommended that in terms of the fees Mr P had already paid to Hartley, Hartley
should refund the difference between what it has been charging Mr P in fees and the annual
charge for its Abacus single asset SIPP, plus 8% interest.
FSCS and other administrative matters
The investigator had sight of letters from the FSCS which stated that Mr Ps claims with it
would become inactive due to a lack of response from Hartley to its information requests. So
she recommended that Hartley should provide the information to the FSCS, meaning it could
progress the claims.
Finally, she recommended that Hartley should pro-actively help Mr P to bring things to a
conclusion and provide an update on the Colonial Capital investment.
Responses to the assessment
Mr P accepted the investigators recommendations. His representative felt it was a fair and
true reflection of the situation to date, although they pointed out that Mr P had received a
further letter from the FSCS which stated that it hadnt received necessary information from
Hartley.
Hartley said it accepted the investigators recommendations, albeit with reservations about
the Abacus SIPP. It provided a breakdown of the fee refund and interest due to Mr P, based
on the application of Abacus SIPP fees.
Current position
The investigator noted though that Hartley had charged Mr P two lots of fees in 2019 - £300
in February 2019 and £600 in March 2019. When it had recalculated the refund due in line
with the Abacus SIPP fee, it had charged £110 in February 2019 and £220 in March 2019.
Hartley said that the £110 fee represented some of the debt it had taken on from Greyfriars
when it purchased its book of business and so it said this was why the money had been
retrospectively billed. It also stated that as it had taken over the Greyfriars book in October
2018, it had been entitled to charge fees between November 2018 and April 2019,
irrespective of whether it had billed retrospectively.
Two investigators asked Hartley for evidence to show that it had taken on debts or fees
specifically related to Mr P. But despite repeated requests, this information was not
forthcoming.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 March 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt think Hartley had treated Mr P fairly. I said:
It seems to me that all parties to this complaint accepted our investigators opinion that
Hartley hadnt met its regulatory obligation to act in Mr Ps best interests and to treat him
fairly. In my view, Hartley and Mr P both agreed with our investigators recommendations
that:
Hartley should recalculate the SIPP fees itd charged Mr P following its acquisition of
his SIPP in line with the fees it would charge a new customer for an Abacus SIPP;
It should add interest of 8% simple to those refund amounts;
It should pay Mr P £400 compensation for his trouble and upset;It should engage with Mr P to proactively bring things to a conclusion and provide an
update on the Colonial Capital investment;
It should send Mr P the necessary paperwork to allow him to disinvest from the AJ
Bell investment and;
It should send the FSCS the information it requires to progress Mr Ps claims.
As such then, it seems to me that I dont need to examine each of these points in turn or to
make detailed findings upon each point, although I do intend to further consider the potential
impact of Hartleys delay in actioning Mr Ps UFPLS request on him. Ive set out the
investigators reasoning above and I agree with the findings she reached and for broadly the
same reasons. I also note in Hartleys response to the assessment that it intended to send
information to the FSCS to allow it to continue its investigations. For completeness though,
given Hartleys reservations about using the Abacus SIPP in its fee recalculations (although I
acknowledge it has used the fees associated with the Abacus SIPP when calculating Mr Ps
refund), Id like to address this point.
The Abacus SIPP is a single asset SIPP which doesnt hold non-standard assets. Once
Mr Ps UFPLS has been actioned, his remaining investment will be a single illiquid asset.
And I think, given the status and value of the Colonial Capital investment  that a
comparison with the Abacus SIPP is acceptable in these circumstances. As such, Im
currently satisfied that calculating the refund due based on the applicable Abacus fee leads
to a fair outcome here.
However, its clear that an outstanding issue remains. Hartley maintains that its entitled to
charge Mr P a fee of £110 in February 2019. Initially, it said a fee had been applied at this
point representing the 50% portion of Mr Ps annual 2018 fee, which Greyfriars deferred in
May 2018. It later told us that this fee represented some of the debt it had taken on from
Greyfriars. And it referred to it being entitled to charge 5/6 of the deferred fee because it had
taken over the SIPP in November 2018.
Ive thought carefully about Hartleys arguments. Our investigators have asked Hartley, on
more than one occasion, for evidence showing that it purchased Mr Ps debts from
Greyfriars. Despite these requests for specific evidence, this has not been forthcoming. So in
the absence of such evidence, I think the fair outcome would be for Hartley to refund this
particular fee in full.
I acknowledge that Hartley took over Mr Ps SIPP broadly halfway through the financial year.
However, prior to the acquisition of the SIPP, Mr P paid Greyfriars an annual fee. In May
2018, Greyfriars decided to defer half of its annual fee and therefore, only charged Mr P
£300 at that point. While Hartley might consider that Greyfriars wouldve called on the
remaining balance in September 2018, Ive seen no evidence to suggest this was the case.
And in any event, in my view this was a fee which was owed to Greyfriars, not to Hartley. So
the fact that Greyfriars chose not to debit the fee in full in April 2018 doesnt mean that an
obligation necessarily arises on Mr P to pay Hartley the outstanding fee balance.
It seems to me that had Greyfriars charged Mr P the full fee of £600 in April 2018, Hartley
wouldnt have been entitled to any remuneration for the six month period it administered his
SIPP after it took over Greyfriars book.
There is simply no available evidence to show that Greyfriars and Hartley agreed that
Greyfriars would charge its customers half their annual fee and that Hartley would be entitled
to charge the other half once it took over Greyfriars business. And in the absence of such
evidence, I dont think was fair or reasonable for Hartley to have applied this fee in February
2019.
It's open to Hartley to provide such an agreement or evidence that it specifically took on MrPs debts from Greyfriars in response to this provisional decision.
As such, in addition to the settlement Hartley has already agreed to, I also plan to direct it to
refund the fee Mr P was charged in February 2019, together with interest at an annual rate
of 8% simple. Thats because Im not satisfied Hartley has shown it was fair and reasonable
for it to charge any fee at this point.
Ive next turned to consider any potential impact Hartleys delay in acting on Mr Ps UFPLS
request may have caused him. As Ive set out above, it doesnt appear to be in dispute that
Hartley caused delays and didnt provide an acceptable level of service in the payment of
UFPLS to Mr P. It has agreed to compensate him for the trouble and upset this caused him
in line with the investigators findings. The delay caused was substantial and so I think
Hartley should also establish if any financial loss has been caused to Mr P as a result of this.
To do this, Hartley will need to calculate what Mr P couldve received but for the delays it
caused and add to this 8% simple per year from the date payment wouldve been made until
the date of payment and compare this to the actual payment. If the notional payment is
greater than actual payment, then Mr P has suffered a financial loss and Hartley should
compensate him for this.
Based on the available evidence, I think a reasonable approximation for when the payment
couldve been made if Hartley had dealt with Mr Ps request appropriately and without delay
would be 22 January 2019. Ive established this based on the following timeline:
6 November 2018  Hartley received Mr Ps first UFPLS request.
20 November 2018  Hartley ought to have sent Mr P the necessary form and paperwork.
4 December 2018  Mr P is likely to have returned the form requesting a total withdrawal he
wasnt entitled to and which didnt include bank details. (Ive based this on the form Mr P did
complete once it was sent to him).
18 December 2018  Hartley ought to have returned the form to Mr P explaining the terms of
the AJ Bell investment; what his withdrawal entitlement was and explained his options. It
also ought to have asked for his bank details. Hartley could also have explained the position
of the Colonial Capital investment at this point.
8 January 2019  Based on a slightly longer period for the Christmas and New Year
holidays, I think Mr P wouldve most likely returned the completed and applicable paperwork
at this point.
22 January 2019  Hartley ought to have made payment to Mr P.
If Hartley disagrees with the timeline Ive proposed above, it should set out its own timeline
and methodology and explain how its reached it in response to this provisional decision.
To compensate Mr P for any financial loss he may have suffered from the delay in it dealing
with Mr Ps withdrawal request, I plan to find that Hartley must:
Establish the maximum Mr P couldve withdrawn from his pension on 22 January
2019
Add to that 8% simple per year from 22 January 2019 and up until the date of
payment
Compare that to the actual amount paid
If the notional amount plus interest is greater than the actual payment amount, Mr H hassuffered a loss and Hartley must therefore pay the difference to Mr P. If Hartley still hasnt
made the payment, it should arrange for the payment to be made as a matter of urgency and
then undertake the above calculation.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Both Mr P and Hartley let us know that they accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to change them.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
partly uphold this complaint.
I direct Hartley Pensions Limited to:
Charge Mr P what it is charging new customers for its Abacus single asset SIPP.
Refund Mr P the difference between what hes actually paid since it took over the
SIPP from Greyfriars, and what he would have paid had he been charged the fees
set out above. Any refund must be paid plus 8% simple interest from the date each
payment was made until the date of settlement.
Refund the February 2019 fee payment in full, together with interest at an annual rate
of interest of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Calculate whether Mr P has suffered any financial loss as a result of the delay in its
actioning Mr Ps UFPLS request. As Ive set out above, it will need to:
Establish the maximum Mr P couldve withdrawn from his pension on 22
January 2019
Add to that 8% simple per year from 22 January 2019 and up until the date of
payment
Compare that to the actual amount paid
If the notional amount plus interest is greater than the actual payment amount, 
Hartley will therefore need to pay the difference to Mr P. If Hartley still hasnt made 
the payment, it should arrange for the payment to be made as a matter of urgency 
and then undertake the above calculation.
Pay Mr P £400 compensation.
Engage with Mr P to proactively bring things to a conclusion and provide an update
on the Colonial Capital investment;Send Mr P the necessary paperwork to allow him to disinvest from the AJ Bell
investment if it hasnt already done so and;
Send the FSCS the information it requires to progress Mr Ps claims if it hasnt
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman