DRN-1623575
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, (trading as Barclays), mis-sold him a monthly-
premium payment protection insurance, (PPI), policy.
What happened
Mr S bought the policy over the Internet in 1999 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Ive decided that Barclays did not mis-sell the policy to Mr S because:
Mr S says that Barclays didnt make him aware that PPI was optional. Barclays can no 
longer be sure exactly how PPI was presented to Mr S when made his credit card 
application. But Ive seen a copy of a screen that Barclays says is a fair representation of 
what would have happened. This briefly describes PPI. And below this there are two 
buttons  one to accept the insurance and the other to decline it. Neither button is more 
prominent than the other. There is nothing on this screen that suggests that PPI is 
required to be taken if the card application is more likely to be successful. Im satisfied 
that this made it clear that PPI was optional.
Mr S says before applying for his credit card on-line had had spoken to someone in a 
stall in a shopping centre. He says this person advised him to accept PPI when applying 
for his card, as this would help his application go through. The sale was over 20 years 
ago and I dont think that, in the absence of more detail about Mr S conversation with 
this person, I can fairly and reasonably conclude that the contents of this conversation 
overrode what Mr S would have seen on-line.;
As Mr S application was over the Internet, without any direct contact with anyone at 
Barclays, Im satisfied that Barclayas did not give Mr S a personal recommendation to 
take out the PPI. So, it was up to Mr S to decide if the policy was suitable for his needs 
and whether to take it out or not. (Again, without more information about what transpired 
during Mr S conversation at the shopping centre, I dont find that I can reasonably and 
fairly find that it amounted to advising Mr S that the policy was specifically suitable for 
him.)
However, if Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S, it still had to give him clear, fair 
and not mis-leading information about the policy terms so that he could make an 
informed decision whether he wanted to take it or not. 
I can see that the on-line screen, to which Ive referred above, said that the initial cost of 
the PPI was 59p for each £100 on Mr S credit card balance. And that it covered him for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. But its possible that Barclays didnt tell Mr S 
everything else it ought to have done. For instance, that he would have had to continue 
paying the premiums during a claim.
However, knowing what I do about the terms and conditions of the policies that Barclays 
was offering at the time, and what I know about Mr S circumstances, Im satisfied that:
Mr S was eligible for the policy;
Mr S wasnt likely to be caught by any of the policys main limitations and restrictions - 
such as those affecting someone who had a pre-existing medical condition;
Mr S has told us that he was entitled to some redundancy payments and sick pay. But, 
following a successful claim, the PPI would have paid 10% of Mr S credit card balance 
had he been unable to work. These payments would have been made for up to 12 
months. This is a longer period than Mr S sick pay from his employment. So, I think the 
insurance could have been of use to Mr S;
The insurance was competitively priced by comparison to other similar policies that were 
available at the time. 
Because the PPI was paid for monthly, Mr S could have cancelled it at any time without 
further payment if he no longer wanted it or felt that he could no longer afford it;
So, I dont think that clearer information would have changed Mr S mind and stopped him 
taking out the insurance.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I find that the PPI policy wasnt mis-
sold, so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman