DRN-3453584
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the service that hes received from Marks & Spencer Financial
Services Plc (M&S) surrounding M&S not applying a paid cheque to his account.
What happened
Mr P paid a cheque for £500 from his current account into his M&S account. Mr P then
noticed that while the £500 had left his current account, it hadnt been credited to his M&S
account.
Mr P contacted M&S about this but the person he initially spoke with wasnt helpful. In a later
conversation, M&S explained to Mr P that in order to trace where the £500 had gone they
would need Mr P to provide the sort code and account number of the account from where
the money had been paid. Mr P wasnt happy about this as he felt that M&S should have all
the information needed to trace the money already, so he raised a complaint.
M&S looked at Mr Ps complaint. They initially reiterated that they needed the sort code and
account number from the sending account in order to trace the funds. Then  when Mr P
provided this information to M&S, and following M&S successfully locating the money and
crediting it to Mr Ps account  M&S explained that an incorrectly inputted reference number
had meant that theyd been unable to recognise to which account the funds should have
been applied and apologised to Mr P for what had occurred. M&S also reimbursed the
interest and charge that had been applied to Mr Ps account erroneously in the absence of
the £500 payment and offered to pay Mr P £50 compensation the inconvenience and upset
the matter had caused.
Mr P didnt feel that M&Ss offer of compensation went far enough, so he referred his
complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that
the response that M&S had already issued to Mr P, including the apology and the offer of
compensation, already represented a fair and reasonable response to what had taken place.
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 31 March 2022 as follows:
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr P to have paid money into 
his M&S account, only for that money to have not been credited to his account and to 
seemingly have been misplaced by M&S. And I can further appreciate how that 
frustration would have been compounded by what Mr P perceived as the less than 
helpful attitude of the first member of M&Ss staff that he spoke to about this matter.
In circumstances such as this, it would be expected that M&S would seek to locate 
the missing money as quickly as possible, and to advise Mr P of any additional 
information they may require in order to do so. After Mr Ps initial conversation with 
M&S, it appears that M&S did that here, and they explained to Mr P both verbally and 
in writing that they needed Mr P to confirm the sort code and account number of the 
sending account in order to attempt to trace the money.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr P to have been asked for 
this information, but I find it very difficult to conclude anything other than had Mr P 
given this information to M&S when they first asked for it, that M&S would then have 
been able to resolve this matter sooner that ultimately was the case. So, while I 
acknowledge that M&S didnt provide the standard of service that they aspire to here 
 which M&S themselves have also acknowledged  I dont feel that M&S can be 
reasonably held solely responsible for the totality of the time that the £500 was 
missing from Mr Ps account.
When Mr P did provide the requested information to M&S, its notable that M&s were 
then able to locate the money in good time and to transfer the money to Mr Ps 
account. M&S also agreed to reimburse to Mr Ps account the interest and charges 
that had been incurred on the account as a result of the money not being applied to 
the account when it first should have been. This feels fair to me, and so Im satisfied 
that M&S have implemented fair and reasonable corrective action to put Mr Ps 
account back into the position it should have been in, had this issue never occurred.
Additionally, M&S apologised to Mr P for what had happened and offered to make a
payment of £50 compensation to him. And M&S have recently offered to increase 
this amount of compensation by a further £75, so that a total of £125 compensation is 
being offered to Mr P for the trouble and upset that hes incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair 
and reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. 
But I must note that the £125 that M&S have offered Mr P does feel fair to me, given 
the circumstances here, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what I would 
instruct M&S in to pay in these circumstances had no offer of compensation been 
made by them. And it follows that I wont be instructing M&S to pay any further 
compensation to Mr P beyond this amount here.
Because M&S have increased their offer of compensation to Mr P following this 
complaint being referred to this service, Im obliged to provisionally uphold this 
complaint in Mr Ps favour in order to formalise that offer and to allow both parties to 
provide any further comments or new information  should they wish to do so  
before I move to a final decision.
As such, my provisional decision here is that Im upholding this complaint in Mr Ps 
favour on the basis explained above. And while Im satisfied that no further account 
corrective action is required by M&S, my provisional instructions to M&S are that they 
must make a payment of £125 to Mr P, which I feel fairly compensates him for the 
inconvenience and upset that hes incurred here.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr P and M&S the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. 
However, both Mr P and M&S confirmed they were happy to accept my provisional decision, 
and so I see no reason not to issue a final decision on the basis as outlined in my provisional decision. I therefore confirm that my final decision is that I do uphold this complaint in Mr Ps 
favour on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
M&S must make a payment of £125 to Mr P to compensate him for the trouble and upset 
hes incurred.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Marks & Spencer Financial Services 
Plc on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman