DRN-3654653
The complaint
Mr T complains about the delay in Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited (referred to as 
the business) processing his request in surrendering an investment he had with the 
investment provider (provider).  
What happened
Mr T was having some major building works done on his property. To fund this project, he 
decided to surrender one of his investments. 
On 5 January 2022, he contacted the business which is the servicing agent for his 
investment to start the process and obtain an up to date valuation. He called the Nottingham 
office, but no one answered. On 6 January 2022, he called again but couldnt get through, so 
he left a voicemail setting out his requirements. He was called back the same day from the 
Glasgow office notifying him that an adviser from the Nottingham office would call him back. 
Mr T says he was led to believe that it would be in the next 24 hours.  
On 7 January 2022, Mr T raised a complaint as he didnt receive a call back from the 
business. In summary, he said that hed been trying to contact someone from the business 
to discuss surrendering his investment, but no one had been able to help and it had been 
very frustrating and disappointing. He requested the business to close the account as he 
needed the money urgently. 
On 10 January 2022, Mr T received the call back and was promised a call from a financial 
adviser at the Nottingham office. He was told that hed need to complete a withdrawal form 
(from the provider), that the business would send/email. 
On 12 January 2022, Mr T received the form which he duly completed and returned to the 
provider at the Edinburgh office address displayed on the letter. On 21 January 2022, he 
contacted the provider again for an update but found that it hadnt received the form he sent 
nine days previously. During the conversation, it transpired that that the address on the letter 
wasnt the correct address, and the returned form shouldve been sent to Sunderland. 
Unhappy with this new information, Mr T wrote a second complaint letter to the business 
stressing the urgency of the matter. 
In a Final Response Letter dated 21 January 2022  in relation to the complaint raised on 7 
January 2022  the business upheld the complaint and in summary made the following key 
points:
The pandemic had a significant impact on the efficiency of its operation which it cant 
entirely compensate for. 
Although it cant always answer calls in person, it checks its voicemails on a daily 
basis and passes on messages to the relevant teams. 
Its policy is only to facilitate a withdrawal from an investment if an investor followed 
its advice process. 
If it advised a withdrawal, the process usually takes five working days to instruct the 
provider to sell funds. Overall, the process can take two to three weeks. 
Its sorry for the difficulties faced by Mr T contacting it and for not returning his calls 
promptly.  
It offered £50 compensation for the communication issues. 
Unhappy with the businesss response, Mr T made another complaint. On 22 January 2022, 
he completed a second set of withdrawal forms and sent this to the correct address. On 24 
January 2022, he was contacted by the business to say that itd be in touch with the provider 
to expedite the withdrawal. The provider also confirmed it had received the second set of 
instructions and instructed the trades the same day. 
On 26 January 2022, the business confirmed that the original form  sent on 12 January 
2022  had been received by the provider at its Sunderland office. 
In a second FRL dated 27 January 2022, the business upheld the subsequent complaint. In 
short, it said:
It wasnt aware that the provider had recently updated its form  only the new forms 
provided an email address to return to. 
The address provided was still the providers address  not the correct location  and 
it arranged for the sale of units, and when it settles, itll deal with the withdrawal 
request. 
In any case for providing the incorrect address it offered £50 compensation. 
Mr T disagreed with the businesss latest response. He said the incorrect address delayed 
the matter by a week resulting in £500 worth of loss. The valuation on 24 January 2022 was 
£1,2981 and on 18 January 2022 the valuation was £1,3487.
In due course, the funds were provided to Mr Ts account on 2 February 2022. 
The business maintained that it wasnt responsible for the delay in withdrawal or the loss in 
investment value. Additional factors such as the incorrect date of birth recorded on the 
providers system added to the delay which wasnt down to the business.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but (initially) didnt think it should be 
upheld. In short, she said:
The provider confirmed that the issues relating to the date of birth wasnt an issue 
that caused the delays. 
The business explained that an advised process was necessary so that investors 
would understand the risks. 
On 10 January 2022, an adviser called Mr A  but he didnt want advice  so his 
response was recorded, and a form was sent out. 
Even though there was a three-day delay, it wasnt unreasonable in the 
circumstances. It was important for the business to follow its process and Mr T to be 
aware of the risks involved. The £50 compensation offered in respect of this (delay) 
is broadly fair and reasonable.
The provider confirmed that it notified all independent financial advisers (IFAs) of its 
change of address  and that that forms could be returned via email  on 26 April 
2021  but it couldnt confirm if it notified the business. Its likely the provider 
wouldve notified Mr T of this change too, but on balance, she cant say that it notified 
the business. So, in the circumstances it wouldnt be fair to blame the business for 
the delay, or any financial loss suffered by Mr T as a result.
The £50 compensation offered for the mistake  namely for providing the incorrect 
address which caused a delay in the surrender  is broadly fair and reasonable. But she cant blame the business as theres no evidence that it was aware of the 
providers address change. 
Its not entirely clear when the first form was received by the provider.  Although it 
says it wouldve forwarded the form the next day following receipt. This would 
suggest that any delays in receiving the form at the correct office was down to postal 
issues. 
The business and provider also suggested that there have been some postal issues, 
which would support the contention that any delays were down to postal issues. 
The chronology would suggest the following:
oOn 12 January 2022, the form was sent to the incorrect address. 
oDespite what the provider says, the form wasnt received at the correct office 
until 26 January 2022  so took 14 days. 
oOn 22 January 2022, the second form was sent and received on 24 January 
2022, only two days later. 
Whilst there has been a delay, she cant say its the businesss fault. In other words, 
its unlikely it was the businesss fault even though theres no way to verify it.  
Despite what Mr T says, the £100 total compensation offered for the distress and 
inconvenience caused is broadly fair and reasonable, and no further compensation is 
warranted. 
Mr T disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. There 
has been some correspondence between him, the business, and the investigator but in 
summary he made the following key points:
He was tempted to forget about the whole thing. But having spoken to an IFA hed 
like to pursue matters. 
The provider confirmed that it sent notifications of the address change to all 
Intermediaries and IFAs on 26 April 2021 so why hasnt the investigator believed 
that. Has she even asked the provider whether it received all surface mail from the 
business during the period of 26 April 2021 to 20 January 2022  that answer to that 
would prove whether or not the business was aware of the address change. 
Unless a letter is sent recorded delivery, how can you prove it was sent. Postal 
services very seldom fail to deliver, yet on a balance of probabilities the investigator 
believes that it wasnt. 
The central issue is that the delay was caused by the business providing the wrong 
address. But there seem to be red herrings and unanswered questions. 
In summary:
oDespite what the provider said, the investigator chose to believe the business. 
oWhy did the business say the date of birth issue delayed the process if not to 
discredit his complaint?
oThe Royal Mail delay is irrelevant as it was the wrong address on the form 
given to him by the business that caused the delay. On a balance of 
probabilities, the business was aware of the change of address. 
oIf he had an execution only account, why did the business want to contact him 
(albeit belatedly) to offer advice?
oHow does the investigator explain that on every account statement it 
mentions the business as his intermediary/adviser? And does this mean that 
he can reclaim the adviser charges that hes paid over the last 15 years or 
so. 
oHes received at least six apologies from the business about the 
delays/mistakes, yet no one seems to think its relevant.  
oOne apology suggest it couldve returned his call sooner. Why was he 
advised by email that someone would contact him the next day, but he wasnt 
called back until four days later. Why did it take another two days to email the correct form? 
The six-day delays contributed to the delays processing his request overall, therefore 
he maintains his claim for £500 financial loss. 
The investigator having considered the new submissions was persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
She was under the misapprehension that the business wasnt Mr Ts IFA. However, 
because it was, its likely that it wouldve received an update regarding the address 
change.  
The provider confirmed that it notified all IFAs prior to 25 April 2021, therefore the 
business made a mistake by sending out a form with the incorrect address to Mr T. 
Notwithstanding the £50 compensation offered in respect of the delay, the business 
needs to do more to put things right. 
The first set of forms took 14 days to be delivered to the provider. Notwithstanding 
what the business says about postal delays, he would expect the letter to be received 
within a couple of days of it being sent. 
The first form was sent back by Mr T on 12 January 2022 so its likely that the letter 
wouldve been received by 14 January 2022. 
The provider confirmed that it received the second form on 24 January 2022, the 
valuation was complete by 25 January 2022 and the funds paid on 2 February 2022. 
Based on the above timetable, the valuation ought to have been done by 15 January 
2022. There was an issue with the date of birth, but the business corrected its own 
mistake, and this didnt delay the process. 
To put things right the business should work out the value of Mr Ts investment on 15 
January and compare this to the price on 25 January 2022, and pay him the 
difference, with 8% simple interest. 
The business agrees that it shouldve sent Mr T the correct address at the outset. However, 
it disagrees that it wouldve taken two days just because this is how long it took the other 
form. 
The provider was also unable to determine when it received the form and the pandemic was 
affecting the post. Concluding that the delay was due to the first form going to the old 
address, implies that the provider sent the form promptly, but it didnt forward the form for 
two weeks. 
According to the investigators view Mr T sent the first form by first class post and the 
subsequent form by recorded delivery  the latter was likely to have been delivered sooner 
because of that. Despite Royal Mail officially having the same target date, staff blogs would 
suggest that they were asked to prioritise tracked mail. Also, improvements in staffing since 
and recovery from the Christmas period wouldve had an impact.  
Our investigator having considered the issues, wasnt persuaded to change her mind. In 
short, she said that applying the timescale from the second form the date is likely to have 
been 15 January 2022. She cant agree that the second form was delivered within two days 
because it was recorded delivery. Both first class and recoded delivery post aim to deliver 
letters the next working day according to the Royal Mail website. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators latest conclusion for much the same reasons. 
Im going to uphold this complaint. 
Because the business upheld the complaint  it accepts that it made errors and shouldve 
supplied Mr T with the correct address  Im going to consider the issue of redress and 
whether its fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Had the business not made this recent 
concession I wouldve found it more likely (than not) that it  as Mr Ts intermediary and IFA 
 was notified of the address change back in 2021, therefore it did send Mr T the incorrect 
information, which is fundamentally behind this delay.   
Having considered the redress, I dont think the £100 compensation offered by the business 
for the errors (resulting in delay) is fair or reasonable in the circumstances. 
However, I think the investigators recommendation  to compare the value of the investment 
on 25 January 2022 with the value it wouldve been on 15 January 2022 and pay the 
difference if theres a loss with 8% simple interest  in addition to the £100 already offered 
by the business (but not yet paid because Mr T refused the offer) is broadly fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I note the key contention by the business is that it isnt responsible for the length of delay as 
suggested by the investigator. But on balance I dont agree. It failed to provide Mr T with the 
correct address when it ought to have done, which it now accepts by virtue of its concession 
that it knew (or ought reasonably to have known) the correct address when providing Mr T 
with the initial form. 
I note the comments the business makes about Mr T sending the first form by first class 
post  sent on 12 January 2022 and eventually received by the provider on 26 January 
2022  and the subsequent form sent by recorded delivery  sent on 22 January 2022 and 
received by the provider on 24 January 2022  and that by virtue of this difference, its unfair 
to use the two-day timeframe in the first instance to calculate redress. But on the face of the 
evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says I dont agree with its analogy.  
Regardless of what the business says, Im not persuaded that recorded delivery guarantees 
faster delivery compared to first class post. I note the Royal Mail website confirms that it 
aims to deliver both first class post and recorded delivery the next day. In my opinion, the 
fundamental difference here is that one method is tracked and the other isnt, and theres no 
undertaking that one will get there faster than the other  and presumably the difference in 
cost is due to the additional cost of the tracking service and not speed of delivery. 
Im also aware that theres a premium service available which is a next day guaranteed 
delivery service, which costs more than the recorded delivery service  to pay for the 
guarantee  but thats not what Mr T used. So, in this instance, I think the distinction drawn 
by the business  in order to justify a longer delay period  is unpersuasive and artificial. 
I cant say with certainty when the first form would have been delivered if Mr T had been 
provided with the correct address at the outset. However, in this instance and on balance, I 
dont think the investigators recommendation to use a two-day period (based on when the 
second form was received) to work out redress is unreasonable. Besides, Im aware that the 
new forms also have an email address to return the form to, so its arguable that had the 
business not made an error the process (potentially) couldve taken less time to complete.  
I note the first form was sent on 12 January 2022, in the circumstances, and on balance, I 
think its likely that it wouldve been received on 14 January 2022 and the valuation and trade completed by 15 January 2022. Therefore, and on balance, I think the investigators 
recommendation to compare the value of the investment received on 25 January 2022, with 
the value he wouldve received on 15 January 2022 and pay the difference if theres a loss  
together with 8% simple interest to mark the fact that Mr T didnt have access to his money 
and the  £100 compensation previously offered for distress and inconvenience caused  is 
broadly fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited should work out and pay Mr T the following 
redress:
Compare the value of the investment on 25 January 2022 with the value it wouldve 
been on 15 January 2022, if there is a difference play Mr T the loss with 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr T £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. 
Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited should work out and pay Mr T the redress as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman