DRN-3053222
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined a 
claim under a group income protection policy he had the benefit of.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr S became absent from work and was signed off by his GP with memory 
loss symptoms. 
Mr S had the benefit of a group income protection policy (the policy) through his employer,
which can pay out a large proportion of his salary after hed been off work for 26 weeks
(the deferred period).
As Mr S was unable to return to work and towards the end of the deferred period, a claim 
was made on the policy. L&G declined the claim in February 2020. It didnt think Mr S was 
incapacitated, as defined by the policy.
Mr S appealed that decision and provided further medical evidence in support. L&G then 
arranged for an Independent Medical Examination (IME) of Mr S to take place. The IME was 
carried out by a Consultant Neuropsychiatrist and the report is dated 18 July 2020 (the IME 
report).
Relying on the contents of the IME report, L&G maintained its position to decline the claim. 
Unhappy, Mr S complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators findings and hes raised additional points in reply.
So, this complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers. It also says they should handle claims promptly and
fairly - and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, the policy benefit will be paid each month to a 
disabled member defined as:
an insured member who at any time,
i. meets the incapacity definition, and
ii. is not engaged in any other occupation, other than one which causes payment of a 
partial benefit
Mr S was an insured member and wasnt engaged in any other occupation. So, the crux of 
the issue Im determining is whether Mr S met the definition of incapacity throughout the 
deferred period. 
The insurance schedule confirms that the relevant definition of incapacity is suited 
occupation. That is defined by the policy as:
the insured member is incapacitated by an illness or injury so that he is unable to 
undertake all occupations which we consider appropriate to his experience, training or 
education.
When making a claim, its for Mr S to establish that he met this definition. 
L&G has concluded that Mr S wasnt incapacitated to the extent that he was unable to 
undertake all occupations which are appropriate to his experience, training or education. 
Im not a medical expert. So, Ive relied on all the evidence available to me when considering
whether L&G fairly and reasonably reached this conclusion, declining the claim. And having 
done so, Im satisfied it has. Ill explain why.
Its accepted that Mr S couldnt do the role he was doing immediately before the start of the 
deferred period to the required level. However, it doesnt automatically follow that Mr Ss 
cognitive restrictions meant that he was unable to undertake an alternative role to which he 
was suited and appropriate to his experience, training, and education. 
The focus of the medical evidence during the deferred period isnt on whether Mr S is able to 
carry out a suited occupation. The medical evidence sets out the relevant history, when his 
memory lapses began, the diagnosis and the impact of the memory lapses on Mr S. 
For example, the Consultant Neurologists letter dated 23 July 2019 sets out some of the 
difficulties Mr S reported having with his memory and some techniques hed put in place to 
help him  such as remembering where hed parked his car. It reflects that he was struggling 
at work and his colleagues had noticed over some time, but he became increasingly anxious 
that his deficiencies became more apparent and consequences would arise. 
The Consultant Neurologists letter dated 30 September 2019  so towards the end of the 
deferred period  also reflects there had been no change in his functional cognitive 
impairment. It goes on to say that Mr S underwent some formal neuropsychometry and he 
wasnt objectively impaired in any of the tests. It was compared to his performance in 2017 
and there was a slight increase in his verbal IQ and his non-verbal IQ was maintained. His 
memory was broadly unchanged. There were no other significant changes. But the letter 
concludes that it appears that he is not able to work because of his cognitive impairment 
and I am happy to support him in this regard.
Mr Ss member statement form, submitted in support of his claim dated the end of July 2019, 
reflects that he can carry out household maintenance/DIY, driving, golf and computer use. 
And that he has intermediate experience word processing, using spreadsheets, the internet 
and outlook. Its also reflected that he has refereed and administered certain sporting 
tournaments for many years up to and including international level.
Mr S also attended a rehabilitation consultation with a rehabilitation specialist. This was 
conducted on behalf of L&G. Its reflected:
Approximately a year prior to his absence Mr Ss manager picked up that his short 
term memory was affecting his ability at work; following discussions with HR his manager found work tasks which were more related to older systems Mr S was able 
to recall information about. The older tasks Mr S was allocated were no longer 
available a few months prior to the start of the deferred period. And he was unable to 
cognitively manage newer tasks. This led to him becoming absent from work.
Mr Ss poor short-term memory impacted him on a daily basis. He had difficulty 
concentrating, felt anxious and afraid.
Hes able to undertake domestic tasks and cooking, does DIY around the house  
including decorating. He goes shopping with his partner, there are no restrictions on 
his driving, and he plays golf.
The report concludes that Mr S could undertake a suited role taking into account his training 
and experience: this is evidenced in his ability with his activities of daily living I therefore 
conclude that in my opinion he is able to clinically undertake a suited role.
Based on everything Ive seen up to that date, I dont think L&G was unreasonable in relying 
on those conclusions when declining the claim on the basis that Mr S wasnt precluded from 
performing an alternative, suited, occupation due to his clinical condition. Further, I dont 
think L&G unreasonably concluded that there was evidence to suggest that Mr S was 
capable of doing an alternative role based on his current functioning and capabilities outside 
of work. 
In response to Mr Ss appeal against the decision to decline the claim  and the medical 
evidence put forward in support  L&G arranged the IME. I dont think that was 
unreasonable. 
The IMEs report concluded that Mr S would likely struggle with the complexity involved in 
fulfilling his current role. However, its reflected that given his residual knowledge base in IT 
over many years, theres no medical reason he should be excluded for alternative roles 
within the workplace. And that Mr S:
should be able to access residual knowledge quite easily; it is effortful demanding 
tasks he will struggle with the most. He should be able to function reasonably well 
with less complex and demanding roles, especially if there are supports and 
adaptions available. These would include time to complete tasks; opportunity to 
check task completion; phased return; use of aide memories, digital calendars and 
alerts; focussing on one task at a time; minimisation (such as on-call rotas etc) 
So, I dont think L&G has unreasonably relied on the conclusions of the IME report to 
maintain its position that Mr S wasnt incapacitated under the terms of the policy. 
When making this finding Ive taken into account other medical evidence which post-dates 
the deferred period. But I dont think this could reasonably be said to establish that Mr S 
couldnt undertake a suited occupation during the deferred period. 
For example, the Occupational Health report dated 11 March 2020 reflects that Mr S 
described poor short-term memory with good medium and long-term recall. It goes on to say 
that he may use a computer for up to thirty minutes a day and is able to respond to emails. It 
concludes that Mr S isnt fit for his employed role and is unlikely to become fit to undertake 
all aspects of his current role in the short-term. However, it makes no reference to whether 
hes able to undertake another occupation based on his education, training and experience. 
The Consultant Occupational Health Physicians report dated 10 November 2020 also 
confirms that Mr S was suffering with short term memory loss and that he wasnt yet fit to return to work in his role. Its reflected that in the last 18 months there wouldve likely been 
multiple changes and advances. And that Mr S would struggle engaging in training or 
refresher courses. However, although theres mention of exploring reasonable adjustments 
closer to the time when hes ready to return to work, Im satisfied that the focus of the report 
is on him returning to his current role with his then employer  perhaps with reasonable 
adjustments. The report doesnt focus on whether Mr S can undertake all occupations which 
are appropriate to his experience, training or education. 
Ive also taken into account what Mr S has said about the way in which incapacity is defined 
by the policy. However, his former employer opted to include the definition of suited 
occupation. And for the reasons set out above, I dont think L&G has unfairly applied that 
definition to the circumstances of this case when declining the claim made under the policy 
(and Mr Ss subsequent appeal).
Mr S also says his former employer has thousands of roles and he was ultimately dismissed 
from his job because it didnt feel he would be able to undertake an alternative role with it. 
However, this was his employers decision and I dont think it means that Mr S was unable to 
undertake all occupations appropriate to his experience, training or education.
I know Mr S will be very disappointed with my decision. And I dont doubt hes been through 
a difficult time over many years. However, for the reasons explained above, Im satisfied 
L&G has fairly and reasonably declined the claim. I hope that it helps Mr S to know that 
someone impartial and independent of the parties has looked into his concerns.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman