DRN-2870660
The complaint
Miss B complains about the quality of a sofa she bought through an agreement with Ikano 
Bank AB (publ) (Ikano). Shes also unhappy they have applied interest to the debt.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the quality of the sofa
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the sofa should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Ikano are responsible. 
The relevant legislation allows the business an opportunity to repair a fault that was present 
at the point of supply and, as the supplier explained there was a manufacturing fault which 
required a new spring to be fitted, I think its clear there was a fault with this sofa when it was 
supplied.
But the business repaired that fault in September 2019, so I dont think theres a reason to 
allow Miss B to reject the sofa as the business have completed the repair that legislation 
entitled them to make.
Miss B has also complained that the sofa was the wrong colour. It appears that the business 
demonstrated that the sofa was the same colour as ordered but, regardless, I think its clear 
that Miss B accepted the sofa as she has explained in a letter to Ikano in January 2020 that 
she was happy to overlook the wrong colour mishap
So, I dont think theres sufficient evidence that the sofa was the wrong colour and I think 
Miss B accepted the colour anyway. And, as the business have completed a repair to the 
sofa I dont think they need to take any further action regarding its quality.
deferring interest and payments
Miss B didnt make a payment for the sofa as she was in dispute with the supplier over its 
quality. But the terms of Miss Bs contract with Ikano say:
7 Liability You cannot use a claim against a supplier as a reason for not making a
payments to us unless you have a legal right to do so.
So, I dont think it was fair for Miss B to withhold payments.
I think Ikanos actions were reasonable because I can see they were prepared to hold 
activity on the account for a while and that they refunded interest that had accrued when 
Miss B didnt receive a letter to advise her the account would be coming off hold.
They also offered a £30 goodwill gesture which I think was generous in the circumstances.
As payments werent received and any quality issues were resolved, I dont think Ikano were 
wrong to demand payment and to add interest as the pay later period had expired. Theyve 
subsequently offered to reduce the interest thats been attracted, and in the circumstances, I 
think their offer is reasonable.
Im not therefore asking Ikano to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman