DRN-3701738
The complaint
Ms B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined a 
subsidence claim she made under her home insurance policy.
All references to RSA in this decision include its appointed agents.
What happened
In September 2020, Ms B made a claim under her RSA home insurance policy, when she 
noticed cracks at her property were getting wider. 
RSA arranged an inspection of the property and several internal areas of damage were 
noted, including the hall, stairs, landing, lounge, kitchen and bedrooms. There was also 
damage to the roof.
RSA initially concluded that the damage had likely been caused by either clay shrinkage, 
escape of water from drains, thermal movement or general deterioration of the property. So 
further investigations were carried out. These included CCTV investigations of the drains, 
trial pit and borehole, and level monitoring. 
Following the investigations, RSA told Ms B that the movement was minimal  and that the 
damage to the roof was due to inadequate design and construction. It wrote to Ms B in 
August 2021 explaining why it was declining the claim.
Ms B also appointed her own specialists to inspect the damage and provide their opinion. 
The first opinion said the property was experiencing subsidence causing the gable walls to 
move outwards. The second opinion suggests that insufficient investigations were carried 
out by RSA to determine the cause of the movement and damage. 
Ms B complained to RSA about its decision to decline the claim. She also said shed 
experienced poor customer service. In RSAs response, it said it couldnt see an insured 
peril had occurred (ie. subsidence) and it was satisfied the claim had been turned down 
correctly. But it apologised for being unable to change an appointment and for not phoning 
Ms B back when it had promised to. It offered Ms B £75 compensation.
Ms B remained unhappy with RSAs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues and didnt think RSA had done enough. She 
recommended it carry out further investigations to determine whether an insurable event was 
the cause of the damage.
RSA didnt agree with our investigators recommendations. It said the reports provided by 
Ms B werent as reliable as its own contractors findings. And it maintained its position that all 
the necessary investigations had been carried out.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
The claim decline letter states that the damage to Ms Bs home is not consistent with 
subsidence or the operation of any other insured event. This decision was based on site 
investigations, which RSA says showed no significant vegetation existed around the 
property, and the foundations were of adequate depths given the soil conditions. This 
enabled RSA to rule out clay shrinkage subsidence. 
RSA also said the drains had been surveyed and that there were no defects. It further stated 
that a period of monitoring had occurred to check levels of movement. During the seven-
month monitoring period, movement of no more than 2mm was recorded. 
This contradicts the opinion given by Ms Bs roofing expert, who said the property was 
suffering from issues of subsidence/heave. Ive found this experts report to be less 
persuasive, as it doesnt give as much detail regarding the property damage, nor does it give 
sufficient reasoning for reaching the conclusions reached.
Ive also however considered the report from Ms Bs structural engineer  which is based on 
the information provided by RSA. It raises a number of points about the adequacy of the site 
investigations that were carried out by RSA.
These points include:
There was no monitoring of the ground bearing floor slab and internal walls where 
the damage was evident.
No ground water monitoring was undertaken.
No water test was carried out on the drains.
The period of monitoring was insufficient.
The structural engineers report gives detailed comments regarding the engineers opinions 
and offers reasonable arguments for why further tests should be carried out. For this reason 
I cannot discount this as a reliable expert opinion. RSA says the expert hasnt produced any 
physical evidence of their own to contest RSAs findings  however I dont consider this 
necessary because the engineers opinion is based on analysis of the results of the same 
tests that RSA has relied on, and on a physical inspection of the property.
For the above reasons, Im going to require RSA carry out the further monitoring and testing 
recommended by our investigator.
Ms B has also complained about RSAs customer service and the time taken to deal with the 
claim. I dont think the 11 months it took RSA to complete site investigations and decline the 
claim was unreasonable, as I can see that around seven months of this was monitoring 
which is necessary in deciding claims of this nature. Overall, I cannot see that there were 
any unreasonable delays in the process.
Ive listened to the phone calls Ms B has had with various representatives. And I think RSAs 
offer of £75 is fair to reflect some of the poor service Ms B received. However, I agree with our investigator that the call with one adviser in particular was difficult and couldve been 
handled better. And I think that caused Ms B distress and inconvenience that she should be 
further compensated for. So I think £50 more compensation should be paid in relation to the 
service Ms B received during that call.
Putting things right
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must now:
Undertake a 12-month period of monitoring to determine whether the property is 
stable or still moving.
Carry out water tests on the ground water drainage if there are any signs of slight 
cracks or defects to the drains.
Carry out ground water monitoring to determine whether ground water might be 
affecting the subsoil.
Carry out tests to determine if the cause of the damage might be due to a sulphate 
attack to the ground floor slab.
Reconsider the claim in light of the results from the above investigations. If the claim 
is ultimately accepted, give further consideration to the roof damage.
Pay Ms B a further £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience, bringing the 
total amount of compensation in this case to £125.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman