DRN-3223534
The complaint
Mrs Bs complaint relates to a secured bridging loan she has with Together Personal 
Finance Limited. She is unhappy with many issues in relation to the loan, but especially 
Togethers refusal to accept less than the outstanding balance of the loan to close the 
account.
What happened
In 2018 Mrs B took out a secured loan with Together in order to pay off her existing 
borrowing when the term on the main mortgage expired. At the time, she owned two 
property titles, the one for the house used as security for the loan and the other title was for 
an adjacent piece of land, which provided her with access to her home. 
The end of the term of Mrs Bs existing borrowing was approaching its end and she asked 
Together, via a broker, to provide her with new borrowing. Together agreed to provide Mrs B 
with a loan of £380,000 to be repaid after a year. The interest charged on the loan rolled-up 
into the loan balance and no payments were required. Together only placed a charge over 
the title of the house and not the adjoining title. However, an error occurred, and its solicitors 
automatically attached a charge to both titles.  Mrs B realised this shortly after the charge 
was attached and objected. The charge on the second title was removed on 28 October 
2018. 
Mrs B sold the adjoining piece of land in November 2018, which meant that she could legally 
no longer use the road across that piece of land to access the public highway. She has told 
us that because she no longer has a legal right to traverse the land covered by the second 
title, the value of her home reduced.
Mrs Bs loan expired on 27 March 2019, but it was not repaid.
On 17 May 2019 Together responded to Mrs Bs concerns about how she had been treated 
in telephone calls. It upheld the complaint and gave Mrs B referral rights to this service if she 
wasnt satisfied with its response. 
In June 2019 Together suggested that Mrs B entered into its assisted voluntary sale (AVS) 
scheme. This would have allowed Together to assist Mrs B to sell her home. She declined 
this assistance.
In November 2019 Mrs Bs solicitor wrote to Together and offered £420,000 in settlement of 
the loan. It was explained that this was the maximum that Mrs B had been able to raise 
against the house by an alternative lender, based on a 70% loan-to-value. Together refused 
the offer as Mrs B owed it around £5,000 more than that. 
Mrs B complained to Together in March 2020. She repeated her concerns about the 
treatment she had received from its staff in 2019. She also raised issues about the charge 
having been added to the second title, the rejection of the settlement offer in November 2019 
and the interest rate that was being charged.
On 24 June 2020 Together responded to the complaint. It declined to reinvestigate the 
complaint about the treatment Mrs B had previously complained about in 2019. It then went 
on to address the new complaint points. 
In February 2021 Mrs Bs solicitors informed Togethers solicitors that the property had been 
sold and that this would allow Mrs B to pay it £420,000 in settlement of the loan. It explained 
that the property was being sold below market value as there was no legal or prescriptive 
rights of access to the property. This problem with the title meant that it would only be 
possible to sell the property to a cash buyer. It said that the property had been on the market 
since the end of 2018 and a better offer was not going to be obtained. Together was asked 
to accept the shortfall settlement. 
Together declined the offer. It highlighted that the valuation in 2018 was £625,000 and whilst 
it accepted there was an issue with access to the property, it didnt accept such a significant 
drop in the value of the property. It also pointed out that the balance of the loan was slightly 
over £500,000 at that point. 
Mrs Bs solicitors responded to Togethers concerns and reiterated its comments about why 
the sale price was so much lower than the valuation in 2018. It said that the surveyor and 
Together had both assumed the title had included the adjoining land and an easement/right 
or access to the property existed. It repeated that the sale price that had been achieved was 
the best that could be in the circumstances. 
Shortly thereafter Mrs B asked this service to consider her complaint in March 2021. 
Together objected to us doing so, as it believed the complaint had been referred too late. 
Correspondence continued to be exchanged between Mrs Bs solicitors and Togethers 
solicitors. During this correspondence Together highlighted that Mrs B hadnt obtained an 
independent valuation on the property to evidence that the offer of £420,000 was 
reasonable. The offer to settle the loan was increased three times after that, but these offers 
were also rejected as they were for significantly less than the amount owed. It was confirmed 
by Mrs Bs solicitors that the property had been removed from the market in April 2021 after 
Mrs B concluded that the sale had been lost.
However, in May 2021 Together issued a further complaint response letter. It directed Mrs B 
back to its final response letter of June 2020 which addressed most of the complaint points 
that had been raised in Mrs Bs letters to us. However, it responded to the points about the 
valuation having allegedly been incorrect and the rejection of the February 2021 settlement 
offer. In relation to the valuation, it said that it didnt have a duty to identify if there were any 
access issues, as its solicitors werent involved in assessing the title used as security for the 
loan. Together said these issues should have been brought to Mrs Bs attention by her 
solicitor when she first bought the property. In relation to the reduced settlement offers, it 
said that the offers had been considered, but had been found to be unacceptable. It 
reminded Mrs B of its previous comments about it not being obliged to accept or negotiate a 
reduced settlement offer. 
One of my ombudsman colleagues considered our jurisdiction to look into Mrs Bs complaint. 
My colleague concluded that Mrs Bs complaints addressed by Together in its letter of June 
2020 didnt fall within our jurisdiction because the complaint had been referred to us too late. 
However, she was satisfied that we could consider the matters relating to the rejection of the 
offers of February, March and April 2021. She also concluded that we could consider the 
complaint that the surveyors that valued the property in 2018, were negligent in that they 
failed to alert her that there was no right of access to her property. Together explained at this point that it had challenged the amount of the offer Mrs B had 
received for the property in 2021, as it understood the property was worth significantly more. 
This was due to the valuations it had conducted in 2018, that when Mrs B received a 
mortgage offer in late 2019 the property had been valued at £600,000 and the marketing for 
sale of the property Mrs B did also reflected a higher value for the property. It also confirmed 
that the balance of the mortgage continued to increase in line with the terms of the bridging 
loan.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt uphold it. 
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators conclusions and considered that he had not been 
objective and didnt have sufficient knowledge of the case to enable him to reach a fair and 
reasonable decision. She reiterated that she believes that the surveyor was negligent in his 
valuation of the property on behalf of Together as he failed to check the title deeds and 
identify that the property had no legal access. She went over the events that had occurred 
from the point she started looking for financing in early 2018 and she reiterated her 
comments about the solicitors for Together also not doing their job properly in relation to the 
access to the house. She went over the events that had occurred from the point she started 
looking for alternative borrowing in 2018 before her existing arrangements ended. 
I issued a provisional decision on 2 December 2021, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
At each stage of our process we consider our jurisdiction to consider a complaint. I have 
done so again, and I agree with my colleagues conclusion that we can only consider the 
complaint issues raised about events that occurred after Togethers final response letter of 
June 2020. As such, although Mrs B reiterated all of her concerns, following the 
investigators view, about what has happened, I will only be considering the handling of the 
settlement offers Mrs B made between February 2021 and Togethers final response letter of 
21 May 2021. I will also look at Mrs Bs concerns about the valuation in 2018. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has said that she considers the surveyor who valued the property for Together was 
negligent because it should have identified that there was an access issue to the property 
and taken that into account when valuing the property. She has also said that she believes 
the valuer had the title deeds before valuing the property. 
It would be very unusual for a surveyor completing a valuation to have access to the title 
deeds to a property when completing a valuation. In addition, it is not the surveyors job to 
assess the title of a property and identify if there are any problems with it. It is the borrowers 
solicitors job to ensure that the title of property is fit to be used as security for a lender, not 
the surveyor completing the valuation. 
Lenders are not property experts and so when it comes to deciding whether a property is 
suitable as security for borrowing, it will usually commission an independent expert to value 
the property and ensure that its nature fits with the lenders criteria. Where there are 
concerns about the valuation thats been produced, if it has been done by an independent 
expert, we can only consider whether the lender has appointed a suitably qualified expert. 
We cant look at the contents of the valuation as the surveyor doesnt fall within our remit 
and the valuation isnt a regulated activity. 
In addition, I note that at the time of the valuation, while the house title may not have given 
Mrs B the right to access the property over the adjacent property title, this was not an issue as Mrs B owned that title too. Indeed, it doesnt appear that there were any issues with 
access to the property until Mrs B sold that piece of land. 
When deciding whether to lend and, in this case, whether to allow a shortfall sale a lender 
will apply its commercial discretion. As I have said, I am only considering Togethers actions 
between February and May 2021, and at that point, Mrs B had made several offers that were 
up more than £80,000 less than the debt she owed. At that time, the information Together 
had about the value of the property - in the form of formal valuations - was that the property 
was worth significantly more than the amount Mrs B was telling it she would receive from the 
sale. I know that Mrs B considers the valuation from 2018 of £625,000 was wrong, but she 
told Together that even after the issue with access was identified, the lender in 2019 had 
valued the property at £600,000. As such, I dont think its concerns were unreasonable, 
especially considering the fact Mrs B had declined its assistance to sell the property after the 
term of the loan ended. 
I know that Mrs B has subsequently had a valuation which provides more recent information 
about the value of the property, but that was produced in August 2021 after the period I am 
considering. If Together has been given a copy of the valuation and Mrs B is unhappy with 
its response, she would need to raise her dissatisfaction with Together in the first instance. 
Together confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and that it had nothing further to say.
Mrs B didnt accept my decision. She disputed my colleagues and my conclusions regarding 
our jurisdiction to consider the matters covered by her first complaint to Together. She also 
said that she didnt think it was possible to consider Togethers actions between February 
and May 2021 on their own, without considering the earlier facts of the case. 
Mrs B dismissed the concept that her solicitors should have ensured the title of the property 
was fit for lending and, therefore, should have identified and made her aware of the access 
problem. She maintained that it was the surveyors duty to have identified this problem and 
cited a legal case (Smith v Eric S Bush [1990] 1 AC 831) as evidence that she was entitled 
to rely on the content of the survey completed on her property.  
In addition, it was explained that the lender that had valued the property (and identified the 
problem with access) had made the same mistake as together. Mrs B also said that she 
hadnt asked Together to accept less than the amount of the loan in 2019, but rather she 
asked it to renegotiate the repayment of the loan, with her paying the shortfall in full after the 
sale had gone through, based on further monies being payable for the easement to access 
the property from the main road (which was being arranged as a separate agreement). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would initially apologise to Mrs B that I misunderstood her explanation of her mortgage and 
loan arrangements prior to her taking out the loan with Together. I have considered what she 
has said about the situation, but I dont think it alters the outcome of this complaint, and it 
was included in my provisional decision just for background.
Mrs B has again said that she considers we should consider the matters raised in the earlier 
of her complaints and that we cant look at the issues covered by her second complaint in 
isolation. She also reiterated that she had been unable to refer the subject of her first 
complaint due to her health situation. As I explained in my provisional decision, we consider 
jurisdiction at each stage of the complaint. I have done so again; I remain in agreement with my ombudsman colleague about what complaint issues we can and cant consider. She set 
out in detail her reasoning, including consideration of whether there were exceptional 
circumstances that prevented Mrs B from referring the complaint in time.
Mrs B has disagreed with me about the role of the surveyor and that of her solicitors when 
she bought the property and later when she borrowed from Together.  In support of her 
statement that I am wrong in my conclusion about the roles of the parties involved in this 
case, she has cited the court case above. My understanding of this case is that it is one 
where the surveyor who completed the valuation for the lender, was found to have been 
negligent in missing structural damage to the property, which later resulted in a loss to the 
consumer. The court found that in the case of the purchase of a low value property, a 
consumer could reasonably be expected to rely on the content of the valuation and so the 
surveyor had a duty of care to the consumer. 
I have considered this case, but I dont believe it supports Mrs Bs position that it was the 
surveyors role to assess the title of the property. The case does establish that a surveyor 
has a duty of care to a consumer (in certain circumstances) when completing its job and, 
therefore, can be held liable for any negligence that is established. However, the case 
relates to a negligent assessment of the structural integrity of a property  matters that are 
clearly within the normal remit of a surveyor. I dont consider that the case supports Mrs Bs 
position that the surveyor was responsible for assessing the legal title of the property.
Furthermore, the court in that case found the surveyor directly negligent, not the lender who 
had commissioned the valuation. As I explained in my provisional decision, I cant hold 
Together responsible for the content of the valuation report, as it hired in an external expert 
and it is entitled to rely on that opinion. The court case highlights that any negligence on 
behalf of a surveyor completing a valuation would have to be pursued directly with the 
surveyor. 
Having carefully considered the further comments from Mrs B, I havent been persuaded to 
change my conclusions or reasons for reaching them.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 
18 January 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman