DRN-2711718
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handled his claim on his 
home insurance.
What happened
Mr P had home insurance with Lloyds. In April 2020 he called to make a claim. He explained 
that his roof had been damaged and water was getting into his home. He provided a photo of 
the internal damage. Lloyds asked for a photo of the external damage so it could validate the 
claim.
A few days later Mr P provided the requested photos. Lloyds said it looked like the damage 
hadnt been caused by a one-off incident, but instead over time. And that this would be 
excluded from cover. It asked for further photos so it could see the damage in more detail. 
As it didnt receive anything further Lloyds declined Mr Ps claim based on its original 
conclusion.
Mr P wasnt happy with this. He said he had been advised on the first call that his claim 
would be covered. He made a complaint.  
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said from the photos, the probable cause of the 
damage was rotting of the fascia boards, which would have happened over time. It said this 
was excluded under the policy. Further it said it didnt agree Mr P had been told that the 
claim would be covered on the first call.
Mr P didnt agree, he said the advisor he spoke to on the first call said his claim would be 
covered and told him to get quotes for the work. He also said he had received poor service 
from Lloyds as it had taken a long time for the matter to be resolved. He brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ps complaint be upheld. She said she didnt think 
Lloyds had said that the claim would be covered and that it had acted fairly by declining his 
claim due to the exclusion. She also didnt agree Mr P had received poor service.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators opinion and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P doesnt think Lloyds has acted fairly by declining his claim. And he feels Lloyds has 
provided poor service. Ive considered each of these in turn. 
  
Declining the claim
Ive started by considering whether Lloyds acted fairly when declining Mr Ps claim. When an 
insurance claim is made its for the insured to prove that an insured event has taken place  
thats something thats covered under the policy. Its then for the insurer to either accept the 
claim or prove that an exclusion in the policy applies. 
Mr P provided photos to show there had been damage to his property and there was water 
entering from the roof. He said he thought it was due to a storm or had been caused by 
birds. And therefore should be covered under the storm damage or accidental damage 
sections of the policy.
Lloyds has said that it doesnt think the damage happened as a result of a one-off event, but 
instead has built up over time. It says in the policy, under what is not covered:
A gradually operating cause. This is something that happens gradually over a period of time, 
for example corrosion, damp, condensation, decay or decomposition; 
Wear and tear;
Wear and tear is damage that naturally and inevitably occurs as a result of normal wear or 
ageing.
Examples of wear and tear include:
limescale build up on taps causing the chrome to flake off;
rotten wooden window frames, door frames or fence panels
In order to validate the claim Lloyds asked for photos of the affected area. At the time the UK 
was subject to restrictions due to the coronavirus pandemic, and the government advice was 
to stay at home. So its reasonable that Lloyds sought to validate the claim this way, rather 
than by sending out a loss adjuster.
Ive looked at the photos that were provided. While they are fairly poor quality, I agree there 
are no signs of damage caused by a one-off event. Instead the wooden frame looks to be 
rotting and has parts that have snapped. So from these photos I think Lloyds acted fairly by 
concluding the damage was due to wear and tear and therefore applying the exclusion. 
Before declining Mr Ps claim Lloyds asked Mr P for any further evidence. He provided a 
report from a builder who attended the property to give a quote. However this only provided 
details of how much the repairs would cost and didnt offer any explanation of how the 
damage was caused. As no further evidence was provided, I think it was fair for Lloyds to 
base it decision on the photos provided. 
Its also worth noting that Lloyds offered to send a loss adjuster to inspect the damage in 
more detail, but explained there would be a delay in this visit due to the restrictions. I think 
this is fair in the circumstances. 
Mr P has said that when he first called to make the claim he was told it would be covered. So 
he doesnt think its fair Lloyds later decided to decline the claim. Unfortunately, the call 
wasnt recorded so I havent been able to listen to what was said. However Lloyds has 
provided the notes from its system that were made at the time of the call. The staff member 
has noted that he asked for more information in order to validate the claim and advised that 
the may be covered but not if the damage was due to age or wear and tear. 
When an insurance claim is made, the insurer will usually require further evidence before it 
can validate the claim and confirm cover. So it would be quite unusual for this kind of claim 
to be validated on the first call. Considering this, alongside the notes from the call, I think its 
more likely that Lloyds didnt say the claim would be covered on the first call. Service
Mr P has also complained about the service he has received from Lloyds. Ive looked at the 
correspondence between Lloyds and Mr P as well as the contact notes provided. While I can 
see that Mr P did have to contact Lloyds on a number of occasions, this is often a 
consequence of making a claim. In this case Lloyds required additional evidence in order to 
validate Mr Ps claim, so this led to Mr P having to call Lloyds on a number of occasions. 
However the period of time from the date Mr P first contacted Lloyds until the date it formally 
declined his claim was only around two weeks. And during this time, Ive not identified any 
unavoidable delays caused by Lloyds. So I dont agree Lloyds delayed providing him with an 
answer or provided poor service. 
For these reasons I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably when dealing with 
Mr Ps claim. So I wont require it to do anything differently. 
.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman