DRN-2784173
The complaint
Mr S complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford Insurance)
avoided (treated it as if it never existed) his motor insurance policy and declined his claim
following the theft of his car.
Mr S is being represented in this complaint, but for ease I will refer to any submissions and
actions as if they were made by Mr S.
What happened
Mr S took out a motor insurance policy online with Watford Insurance through a comparison 
website. He had just bought his car for £79,877. However, the policy documentation sent to 
Mr S stated that the estimated value of the car was £50,000. Mr S says that he did not input 
this value, but that it was generated by the comparison website he had used to choose the 
policy.
Mr Ss car was stolen and he made a claim under his policy. Watford Insurance avoided the 
policy and declined a claim. This was because it thought Mr S had misrepresented the value 
of his car. It considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, 
which it has said entitled it to avoid Mr Ss policy and keep the premium that had already 
been paid.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld in part. 
They agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But they didnt think this was 
deliberate or reckless. They believed it was careless. They thought Watford Insurance was 
entitled to avoid Mr Ss policy and decline his claim, because they didnt insure cars worth 
over £50,000, but that it should return the premiums hed paid to them.
Neither Watford Insurance nor Mr S agreed with the investigator and both asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. Watford Insurance say that the difference between the estimated 
value and the purchase price of the car was so much that Mr S was reckless by not 
correcting it, after being asked to check the information he was sent confirming the 
information provided as part of his application.
Mr S has maintained that there was no qualifying misrepresentation. He has said that it 
wasnt reckless or even careless to not question the estimated value in the policy schedule. 
This is because he thought that the lower value was due to depreciation. He has also 
pointed at advertisements for the same make of car with some mileage as having an asking 
price closer to the £50,000 estimated value.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide and I issued 
my provisional findings on the case. I did so in the belief that both parties accepted that the 
valuation of £50,000 had been populated by the comparison site. 
However, Watford Insurance responded to say that they did not accept this was the case. 
They accept the comparison site would have populated a value. But they maintain this initial 
valuation would have been considerably higher than £50,000, based on the valuation tool 
that the comparison site is linked to. And they are adamant that Mr S input the value of 
£50,000. However, they are still not able to provide evidence of the online customer journey 
that he took. However, they are sure the valuations initially provided by the comparison site 
are rarely a round number like £50,000. 
Mr S has maintained that the value of £50,000 was produced by the comparison site. And he 
has provided other valuations on the site at a round number like £50,000. These examples 
were put to Watford, who have accepted that the site does sometimes generate round 
numbers, but that it has gone on to say that they are rare. 
I issued a second provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to respond. 
My provisional decision
I thought that Watford Insurance were right to avoid Mr Ss policy and decline the claim, but I 
felt that he was entitled to a refund of premiums. I set out my reasons why. I said:
My main point of consideration has been who was responsible for the £50,000 valuation.   
Mr S has consistently insisted that this valuation was generated by the comparison site. 
Watford Insurance maintain that if this was the case, the valuation would have been 
considerably higher, as it would have represented the replacement cost of Mr Ss car as 
provided by the valuation tool linked to the comparison site. And its also reiterated it is 
highly unlikely it was a round number like £50,000. And they think that this shows it is most 
likely Mr S must have input the value of £50,000 himself.
As Ive said, there isnt any further evidence available like a copy of the online customer
journey. And, when the evidence is inconclusive, as it is here, I reach my decision on the
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to have happened, in
light of the evidence that is available.
And I believe it is more likely than not that Mr S changed the value on the comparison site,
maybe in error, to £50,000. Rather than the comparison site generating a replacement cost
for his car so far below what it would actually have cost to replace it. I say this as the
valuation tool used by the comparison site had a new list price for the car of £79,970 and for
one with a mileage of up to 1000 miles it listed £68,904. In view of this and the fact that I
accept this tool would have generated the initial figure provided by the comparison site, I
cannot see how it would have produced a value of £50,000. So I think it is more likely than
not that Mr S manually input a value of £50,000. I appreciate Mr S is adamant he didnt do
this and that he cant recall doing so, but  as Ive said, I base my decision on what I think is
more likely than not to have happened.
This means I think Mr S misrepresented the value (replacement cost) of his car. And  in
light of this, I need to decide whether allowing Watfords decision to avoid his policy and
refuse his claim to stand produces a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ss complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to bea qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
As Ive already explained, Im satisfied Mr S made a misrepresentation. And Im also
satisfied Mr S failed to take reasonable care in doing so. The standard of care he had to take
was that of a reasonable consumer. And I dont think a reasonable consumer would have
thought a value of £50,000 for a car theyd just paid nearly £80,000 for could be correct. I
think theyd have realised or should have realised this was incorrect. And this means I think
Mr S realised or should have realised the valuation he input when he provided the
information that generated the quotation by Watford was incorrect. And this means I think he
failed to take reasonable care.
CIDRA also makes it clear that failure to correct information later provided can be a
qualifying misrepresentation. And Ive also noted that Mr S was provided with policy
documentation that showed the value of his car was £50,000 and failed to let Watford know
this was wrong. And, as I think Mr S should have realised this figure was wrong, I also think
he failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation in this instance as well.
To decide whether Mr Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying one, Ive also considered
whether Watford provided the policy if Mr S hadnt made the misrepresentation. Or  if it
would have done, whether it would have done so on different terms.
Watford Insurance have provided me with their underwriting criteria, which shows that had
the correct value been provided, they wouldnt have insured Mr Ss car. This is because they
do not insure cars with a value (replacement cost) of more than £50,000. This means Im
satisfied Mr Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Watford Insurance has said that Mr Ss misrepresentation was reckless because the
discrepancy between what he was paying for the car and the value on the insurance
documents was so large. However, I dont agree that Mr S acted recklessly or deliberately. I
think his misrepresentation was careless. This is because I dont believe that Mr S input the
incorrect valuation deliberately. He has been consistent that he didnt input it. So, while I
think it is more likely than not that he did, the fact that he cant recall this suggests to me he
simply made an error and then failed to pick this up when he got the policy documentation.
Mr S was committing to a considerable monthly amount to finance the car and I dont accept
that he would have input an incorrect figure just to get cheaper insurance and risk having a
problem if he needed to claim. I think he simply made a genuine error, but this  nonetheless
 means he failed to take reasonable care.
As Im satisfied Mr Ss misrepresentation should be treated as a careless qualifying
misrepresentation, Ive looked at the action Watford Insurance can take in accordance with
CIDRA. And, as Watford Insurance have shown that they would not have offered cover to
Mr S at all, Im satisfied they were entitled to avoid his policy (treat it as if it never existed)
and refuse his claim because of this. And  because what Watford has done, is in line with
CIDRA, and this represents our well-established position on this type of complaint, Im
satisfied that allowing Watford to do this produces a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ss
complaint. However, because I think Mr Ss misrepresentation was careless, I think  in
accordance with CIDRA in this situation, Watford Insurance should return the premium Mr S
paid.
Mr S responded to maintain that he was not responsible for the incorrect value being given. 
Whilst he recognised the lack of documented evidence made it difficult, he didnt think it was fair that Watford Insurance were declining the claim without being able to provide any 
customer journey to show that he input the incorrect value. 
Mr S has shown that it was possible for the comparison site valuation tool to produce a 
whole figure such as £50,000. He also maintains that when presented with this figure, he 
thought it was broadly correct considering deductions, depreciation and has shown this 
through other valuations from the time. 
Mr S reiterated the significant impact that this decision would have and also suggested that a 
fair conclusion would be an award of 40% of the claim to take into account the lack of 
evidence to support either side. 
Watford Insurance responded to say that they accepted my provisional decision. They also 
would not agree to a reduced claim. They said that there had been a misrepresentation and 
they would not have insured the vehicle if not. They didnt feel a proportionate settlement 
was justified or fair. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Despite my natural sympathy with the situation that Mr S finds himself in and the obvious 
implications of my decision, I havent departed from my earlier conclusions that it is more 
likely than not that the incorrect valuation for the car was provided by Mr S, rather than the 
comparison site valuation tool. Ive set out why I think this in my second provisional decision. 
And  while I accept that the comparison site could produce a round valuation like £50,000  
I cannot see how it can have done this in Mr Ss case when the guide it is linked to had the 
value of his car recorded as so much higher than this at the time he took out the policy. 
Mr S and his representative have been measured and reasonable in their communications. 
However, it is my role to decide if I think the value of the car was misrepresented or not. 
Whilst it is not beyond reasonable doubt, I have reached my conclusion on a balance of 
probabilities. And, because Ive decided it is more likely than note that Mr S did make a 
misrepresentation and that Watford were only insuring his car because of this, I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to make Watford pay 40% of a claim that  on balance - it 
should never have ever had to deal with. 
  
Putting things right
As Ive said, I think Watford Insurance acted fairly in avoiding the policy and declining the 
claim. 
However, I believe that this misrepresentation was more likely than not to have been 
careless, as opposed to deliberate or reckless. As such Watford Insurance should refund 
any premium Mr S has paid for the policy and add interest to this amount.   
My final decision For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Watford Insurance Company
Europe Limited were entitled to avoid Mr Ss policy and refuse his claim. But they should
refund any premium Mr S paid for his policy. And they will need to add simple interest to this
amount at 8% from the date they avoided Mr Ss policy to the date they pay him this
amount*. Watford Insurance will also need to amend relevant records to show Mr Ss
misrepresentation was careless, as opposed to deliberate or reckless.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to take off
tax from this interest. Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited must give Mr S a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman