DRN-4072161
The complaint
Ms S complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) caused a delay in the 
transfer of her ISA to another provider. She says the delay meant her money was uninvested 
for several weeks and she wants compensation for her time and the stress shes been 
caused.
What happened
Ms S says she gave instructions to transfer her ISA to a third-party provider, who Ill refer to 
as B, in May 2021. Her account only contained cash, but it took until November for the 
transfer to complete. 
IISL said the first contact it received from B was a valuation request on 23 June 2021. It 
responded to this, but then had to chase B because it didnt hear anything further. B sent two 
further valuation requests In September and October, which were responded to, but IISL 
didnt receive a transfer request until 1 November 2021. 
IISL said thered been a block on Ms Ss account since 2018. It couldnt complete the 
transfer until Ms S provided documentation to verify her identity. This was received on 
15 November and the block was removed and the cash transferred on 25 November. It said 
the transfer had completed without any delays.
Our investigator thought IISL had caused a delay because of the block on the account. She 
asked Ms S to provide evidence of any financial loss but, having checked the prices of the 
shares she invested in, she couldnt evidence any loss using the timeline suggested by the 
investigator. The investigator thought Ms S had been given incorrect information about the 
block on the account and that this had caused some delay. 
IISL said that, whilst the transfer had taken place within its expected four-week timescale, 
there was a delay of three working days because of the block on the account. It offered to 
pay Ms S £50.
Ms S didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IISL says on its website that a cash transfer usually takes up to four weeks. It didnt receive 
a transfer request from B until 1 November 2021. It transferred the cash balance to B on 
25 November 2021. So Im satisfied the transfer was completed within IISLs expected 
timescale, and that this timescale wasnt unreasonable.
After the complaint was referred to our service, IISL  at our request  investigated whether 
it had acted reasonably regarding the block on the account. From what its told us, Im 
satisfied that IISL acted reasonably in applying the block in 2018. And that it acted in line 
with its regulatory obligations in not proactively contacting Ms S to fully discuss the reasons 
for the block. IISL accepts that, after Ms S provided the requested documentation, there was 
a short delay of three days before it could confirm her identify had been verified, because of 
staff absence. Taking into account the transfer still took place within a reasonable period, 
and within IISLs expected timelines, I think IISLs offer of £50 for the delay is fair and 
reasonable.
In arriving at this decision, Ive taken into account that Ms S spent time contacting IISL and B 
to check on the progress of the transfer. If Ms S was expecting the transfer to be completed 
in May or June 2021, I accept that, as the weeks and months passed, it will have been a 
stressful situation for her, especially if it wasnt clear which party in the transaction was 
causing any delay. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, I find IISL only caused a delay of 
three days. In the circumstances, I dont find any reason to increase the amount IISL has 
offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that Interactive Investor Services Limited should pay Ms S £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman