DRN-1240756
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with what happened when their Step One Finance Limited loan 
term ended.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for following 
reasons.
 
Step One admitted it made a mistake with the final direct debit which left a small amount of 
the loan outstanding. Im satisfied Step One dealt with this once Mr and Mrs F noticed the 
error and notified it. Mr and Mrs F werent affected by the error before theyd noticed it, and 
once they had notified Step One it explained what needed to be done to resolve things. 
Were not the regulator and our role isnt to punish businesses. Instead we look to put right 
things that have gone wrong. As thats already happened here  with Step One apologising 
for the mistake when it dealt with the complaint - theres nothing further for me to decide.
The £195 discharge fee was always due at the end of the term. This amount wasnt paid 
upfront by Mr and Mrs F, nor was it added to the mortgage debt. As the fee was always due, 
and hadnt already been paid, there are no grounds for me to order it be refunded 
irrespective of whether or not Mr and Mrs F feel the tariff of charges is misleading.
Step One doesnt accept credit cards for payments towards any outstanding loan amounts, 
although fees can be paid that way. As the amount Mr and Mrs F needed to pay was made 
up of both an outstanding loan balance and a fee, that payment couldnt be made by credit 
card irrespective of how small the loan part was in comparison to the fee. 
Perhaps Step One should have told Mr and Mrs F that they could pay £195 by credit card, 
but even if it did Mr and Mrs F would still needed to make a separate payment for the 
outstanding loan amount. If things had been done that way then it would have caused 
Mr and Mrs F more work as they would have had to make two separate payments by two 
separate methods, rather than just paying the entire amount in one go by an alternative 
method as they did. Having considered everything Im satisfied no compensation is due for 
this.
Step One couldnt start the process to remove its charge until Mr and Mrs F paid the £195 
discharge fee. Im satisfied no compensation is due for the period before Step One was 
notified of the problem as it cant put something right that it is unaware of. Once Step One 
received the fee from Mr and Mrs F it took four weeks for it to send the discharge papers to 
the Land Registry, whereas its normal service standard is three weeks. Despite requests for 
proof of their financial loss for that week delay Mr and Mrs F havent provided that 
information so, as our investigator explained, Im therefore unable to make any award for 
that.
I can see Mr and Mrs F feel very strongly about this but having considered everything Im 
satisfied the offer made by Step One is fair. Step One didnt know the wrong payment had 
been taken until it was told and, as I said, it rectified things immediately by explaining to 
Mr and Mrs F what they needed to pay. Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a 
business makes a mistake, mistakes do happen. As I said, were not the regulator; weve no 
power to fine or punish businesses, and our awards arent punitive. 
Clearly no amount of compensation can change what happened. Step One has apologised 
and offered £32.04 compensation and having considered everything Im satisfied thats a fair 
outcome for the customer service failings identified. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with how Step One handled their call saying, in summary, 
that the call handler was rude, he didnt know Step Ones complaint procedures even though 
theyd clearly stated their dissatisfaction and they didnt receive a call back on the same day. 
Step One has already admitted it could have handled the call better, has apologised for that 
and confirmed the call handler has undergone additional training.
Our rules set out the matters that we can look at as being; regulated activities, payment 
services, lending money, paying money by plastic card, and ancillary banking services. In 
addition, we can consider complaints about ancillary activities carried on in connection with 
the above.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator - 
the Financial Conduct Authority - requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough to 
make it a regulated activity within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of 
activities set out in the legislation from which we derive our powers.
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, for 
example, if the complaint handling was ancillary to something we have the power to 
consider. So we can, in theory, consider how Step One handled the call which registered 
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
But there is another thing that we need to consider and that is that we can only make an 
award for any poor customer service in handling a complaint if were upholding the 
underlying issue being complained about (that is, if we think the business needs to do 
something over and above what it had already offered to do to resolve the complaint). As Im 
satisfied Step One had already offered enough to resolve this complaint, it follows I cant 
uphold any complaint about how it handled the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that I consider Step One Finance Limited made a 
fair and reasonable offer in its response to the complaint. I simply leave it to Mr and Mrs F to 
decide if, on reflection, they now want to accept this directly with Step One (if they havent 
already done so). 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2020. 
Julia MeadowsOmbudsman