DRN-2096587
The complaint
Mr B complains that Collingwood Insurance Company Limited wont indemnify him following 
a claim against his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B was involved in a collision with a cyclist. He said there was no damage caused and 
neither party was hurt. He also said the police attended and said it was the cyclists fault, so 
Mr B didnt report the incident to Collingwood. Six months later, the cyclist made a claim to 
Collingwood for personal injury. Collingwood investigated the claim. No police report was 
available. Potential CCTV footage had been lost. It said Mr B had breached his policy terms 
and conditions by not reporting the incident so that it could defend him. And so it declined to 
indemnify Mr B and is seeking to reclaim its outlay from him.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr B 
was well aware of the claims process. And he thought Collingwood was entitled by the policy 
terms and conditions to decline him indemnity for the claim. 
Mr B replied that Collingwood was taking advantage of the late reporting and hadnt handled 
the claim properly. He said it hadnt involved him in the process. He thought it should have 
looked for CCTV evidence and he didnt understand why there was no police report 
available. Mr B asked for an ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Collingwood said it was obliged to deal with the cyclists claim under its Road Traffic Act 
responsibilities. It said it had refused to indemnify Mr B because of his lack of co-operation 
and failing to report the incident. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the 
insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Mr Bs policy requires him to report all incidents to Collingwood as soon as 
possible to avoid him being held liable to pay claim costs. This is explained on page 2 of the 
policy booklet, so I think its sufficiently brought to the consumers attention for Collingwood 
to rely on it. The duty to co-operate with a claim is explained in the General Condition on 
page 28. I think this a common requirement. And I think Mr B, from his previous experience 
of three claims, reasonably understood the policy requirements.
Mr B said he had co-operated with Collingwood. But I think he did this after the claim was 
made, not when the incident first occurred. And, due to the six-month gap, I think this 
prejudiced Collingwoods ability to defend the claim.
This is because I can see from Collingwoods files that there was potential evidence from 
two CCTV cameras that could have been obtained if Mr B had reported the incident. I think 
Collingwood reasonably concluded that it was too late to now obtain this. It established that 
footage on one CCTV camera was deleted after 28 days. The second camera was a traffic 
camera, and, from my experience, footage wouldnt be retained for six months. 
Collingwood requested a police report of the collision, but none was available. A police log 
was available, but this wouldnt comment on liability, just the details of the parties involved. 
This was already established. So I think Collingwood reasonably decided not to request this 
log to avoid further costs. 
In any case, the police attended after the incident and so didnt witness it. Mr B told 
Collingwoods claims investigator that he didnt discuss the relevant traffic light sequence 
with the police at the time. So I dont think its log would have added any evidence to help 
defend the claim.
So Collingwood had to consider the cyclists claim and a medical report that said his injuries 
were consistent with the circumstances of the incident. It decided to pay this claim as it didnt 
have evidence to defend it and it wanted to avoid court costs. I think its entitled to do this by 
the policy terms and conditions. And it decided to seek recovery of its costs from Mr B. I 
think it did this fairly and reasonably and in keeping with the policy terms and conditions. So I 
cant say Collingwood has done anything wrong. 
I was sorry to hear about Mr Bs financial difficulties. I can understand that Collingwoods 
recovery action must be an additional burden for him. But this isnt something that I can take 
into account whilst I am considering whether Collingwood has acted fairly. 
However, we do expect a business to respond positively and sympathetically when its aware 
of a consumers personal difficulties. I can see that Collingwood have already offered to set 
up a repayment plan and provided information about debt management charities. I think 
thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I dont require Collingwood to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman