DRN-2297183
The complaint
Mr N complained about a pay-day loan he took out through a company called Creditstar UK 
Limited. Ill refer mainly to CUKL to keep things simple. 
He says CUKL lent to him irresponsibly because the loan he was provided with caused him 
financial problems.
What happened
We now know that Mr N only took 1 loan out from CUKL. Ive enclosed a summary of Mr Ns 
borrowing with CUKL, based on the information provided to us:
Loan Sequence Amount Total Repayable
July 2016 £300 £366
One of our adjudicators has already looked into the complaint and told Mr N that they didnt 
think it should be upheld. Mr N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Ns complaint.
CUKL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr N could repay both the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought 
to have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the 
total repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
CUKL should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
CUKL told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr N, including 
assessing his income, expenditure and net disposable income. It says that based on what 
was said, this information showed that Mr N would be able to make the loan repayment he 
was committing to. 
Mr N declared his net income (after tax) as £2,900 per month and he also provided details 
about his expenditure. I think its fair to say that from a starting point, this income level would 
appear to be supportive of the borrowing Mr N was seeking. And so, I think for the loan, 
considering what hed also said about his outgoings, CUKL would have concluded it to be 
sustainable.
Also, given what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, I also think it 
was reasonable in this case for CUKL to have relied on what it had been told by Mr N 
himself together with searching through some of Mr Ns financial profile, but certainly not all 
of it. 
So, whilst I accept what Mr N says about his wider financial situation of that time being very 
challenging, I dont think CUKL would have exposed this fully in the financial checks it 
carried out or in the information Mr N himself disclosed. In short, the situation hadnt yet 
arrived where I would have expected a comprehensive assessment of all Mr Ns financial 
responsibilities. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr N, but there isnt enough information to uphold the complaint 
about this loan. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct Creditstar UK 
Limited to pay Mr N any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman