DRN-3146054
The complaint
Mr H complains that MBNA Limited didnt help him when he was in financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr H says he was in financial difficulties from about 2014 following a separation from his 
wife. He says he asked MBNA in about 2015 for help and wanted interest frozen or a 
payment plan agreed. Mr H says he was not offered any help and so complained to MBNA in 
2021. He also says he didnt receive any letters from it about his debt and if he had, then he 
could have repaid the debt far earlier, saving interest. Mr H would like compensation for what 
took place.
MBNA says it doesnt have a record of Mr H telling it about those financial difficulties and 
says it sent a number of letters to him about Persistent Debt (PD). It says it restricted the 
account use in 2015 and refused Mr Hs application to reuse the account in 2016. MBNA 
says the letters were correctly addressed and it sent Mr H regular account statements which 
showed how much he owed and the interest he was charged.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
think MBNA had a record of being told by Mr H about any financial problems and thought 
there would have been detailed notes about that including income and expenditure 
information if it had been raised. The investigator thought MBNA had pro-actively restricted 
the account usage and even if Mr H didnt receive the seven letters sent to him, then he 
would have had sufficient information about the interest he was paying and the balance.
Mr H says he didnt receive any of the letters and would have paid off the debt sooner if he 
had received them.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at MBNAs records and Im satisfied that there isnt a record of Mr H 
telling it about his financial difficulties or asking it to consider a short-term plan. I think it likely 
that if Mr H had told MBNA about his position then he would have been required to complete 
and income and expenditure form. And I would have expected MBNA to have a copy of it 
and for Mr H to have recalled providing that information. So, on balance I dont think Mr H 
did tell MBNA about his position. And in any event, I think it likely that any help MBNA would 
have given Mr H at that time would have been short term.
I appreciate Mr H says he didnt receive any letters from MBNA about PD. Im satisfied 
having looked at the letters they were correctly addressed, and I dont know why Mr H didnt 
receive about seven letters. I cant fairly hold MBNA responsible for that as it doesnt deliver 
the mail. In any event I dont know what Mr H would have done differently if he had received 
those letters. I say that as Im satisfied that Mr H would have received monthly account 
statements and ought to have known how much he owed, what is monthly repayments were 
and how much interest he was paying. In those circumstances I would have expected Mr H 
to have increased his monthly repayments if he wished and can see in any event, he did 
repay the total balance.
Im satisfied that MBNA did act appropriately in 2015 and 2016 by restricting Mr Hs account 
use. I think that was responsible lending.
Overall, Im satisfied that MBNA has dealt appropriately with Mr Hs complaint and so I cant 
fairly order it to pay Mr H the compensation he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman