DRN-3615489
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC), wont refund the money he lost after falling 
victim to an authorised push payment (APP) scam whereby he sent money to an account 
held at HSBC.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in
detail here. In summary, Mr S fell victim to a scam. He made five payments from a bank 
account he held with a different provider, to an account held at HSBC.
In total Mr S sent a total of £12,243.50 between 10 May 2020 and 6 July 2020 to the account 
held at HSBC. 
After the scam was revealed, Mr S complained to his bank and also raised concerns about 
HSBC (where the receiving bank account was held) via our service.  
Mr Ss bank and HSBC are signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). 
The CRM Code was implemented to reduce the occurrence of APP scams. It sets out what 
is expected of the Sending Firm when payments are made which includes a consideration 
of whether a customer met their requisite level of care when making the payment. And it also 
sets out the obligations for the Receiving Firm to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt 
of funds from APP scams in order to prevent accounts from being opened, or used, to 
launder the proceeds of APP scams. Where there is a failing by either the Sending Firm or 
Receiving Firm, they may be required to reimburse the customer. And the customer may 
also be required to share some responsibility for the loss if it is determined that they also 
failed to meet their requisite level of care under the CRM Code.
HSBC, once notified of the fraud, restricted the account in question. Unfortunately, no funds 
were recovered from the account as all the funds had already been moved on or withdrawn.
Mr S didnt receive a refund from his bank or HSBC. 
Mr S brought his complaint about his bank and HSBC to our service. Mr Ss complaint about 
his bank, as the Sending Firm was looked at under a separate complaint reference and a 
decision has been issued. In that case, the deciding ombudsman concluded his bank wasnt 
liable for the money hed lost.
In this case, Mr S says HSBC as the Receiving Firm didnt do enough to protect his money.  
HSBC, under the CRM Code, didnt agree that it was liable for any loss Mr S incurred. While 
it said it couldnt provide any specific information about the beneficiary account, it assured 
Mr S that the relevant checks were carried out when the account was opened. 
Our Investigator looked into things and didnt recommend that HSBC needed to do anything 
further. Overall, she was satisfied HSBC had met the standards required of it under the CRM 
Code and wasnt responsible for Mr Ss losses as it couldnt reasonably have done more to 
prevent his loss. She was also satisfied it had responded appropriately to the notification of 
fraud. 
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In his appeal, Mr S 
has referred to wanting to provide information from Trading Standards. Our investigator 
asked Mr S what information from Trading Standards he wished to provide. In response, 
Mr S sent the investigator contact details for Trading Standards but no further information. 
Our investigator explained to Mr S that based on the information provided to her that she 
didnt feel information from Trading Standards would change the outcome. She reiterated 
that she couldnt comment further on the aspects which had been decided by an 
ombudsman under the separate complaint about the Sending Firm with our service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, to clarify, this decision focuses solely on the actions of HSBC  as the Receiving Firm 
of the account where Mr S made payments to.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail than 
has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
HSBC could have done more to prevent Mr Ss losses. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an 
alternative to the courts.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but Im not upholding his complaint about HSBC. I know hes 
been the victim of a scam and I dont doubt that these events have had a significant impact 
on him. But I dont believe HSBC has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its answering of the 
complaint. Im satisfied HSBC has met its requirements under the CRM Code and therefore 
isnt liable for Mr Ss losses. Ill explain why.
Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like HSBC, are required to
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2)
and to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing
of terrorism requirements.
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the
relationship).And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse 
Code of Practice).
And Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule.
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that HSBC are a signatory 
of.
The relevant considerations for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code sets out the following:
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm
 
SF2 Receiving Firms should take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being 
used to launder the proceeds of APP scams. This should include procedures 
to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams. 
Where the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they 
may be the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond 
in a timely manner.
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for 
criminal purposes.
Detection
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are 
being, used to receive APP scam funds.
Response
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving 
Firm, the receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures 
set out in the Best Practice Standards.
In considering all of the above, and to determine if HSBC met the standards required of it 
under the CRM Code, I have looked at whether HSBC opened the receiving account 
correctly, whether there was anything in the way the account was being used that should 
have given HSBC any cause for concern and finally; once notified of fraud did it act 
appropriately and in a timely manner. And if I consider there were failings in relation to any of 
the above, I have to consider whether HSBCs acts or omissions fairly resulted in Mr Ss 
loss.  
I would like to point out to Mr S at this point, that while HSBC has provided our service with 
information about the receiving bank account  it has done so in confidence. This is to allow 
us to discharge our investigatory functions and HSBC has provided that which is necessary 
for the determination of this complaint. Due to data protection laws our service cant share 
any information about the beneficiaries, the receiving bank accounts or any investigation and 
action HSBC subsequently took. However, I would like to assure Mr S I have thoroughly 
reviewed and considered all the information provided before reaching my decision.Prevention - The account opening process
To help decide whether or not a bank failed to prevent the loss of an APP victim when
opening the beneficiary account, we would generally ask to see evidence that; it correctly
followed its account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the identity of the
named account holder; and did its due diligence when opening the account.
However, our service only has powers to consider complaints about Receiving Firms since 
31 January 2019  and we cant consider any acts or omissions carried out by a Receiving 
Firm that occurred before this date. That means if the account was opened before this date, I 
am unable to comment or make a finding as to whether I consider a Firm may have failed in 
its obligations in any way.
In this case, the beneficiary account was opened prior to 2019, so I am unable to comment 
on or make a finding about the account opening process  as the act of HSBC opening the 
account happened prior to when our service had the power to look into complaints about 
Receiving Firms. However, HSBC still provided information about how the beneficiary 
account was opened and the documentation it obtained at the time from the beneficiary. 
While I am unable to comment or make a finding here, for Mr Ss benefit, HSBC has said the 
account was opened in accordance with its procedures.
Detection - Account activity
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the
account. The CRM Code sets out that Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts 
which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. This ties in with long standing 
regulatory and legal obligations Banks and Building Societies have to monitor their business 
relationships and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include giving 
consideration to unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive looked at the account history for the beneficiary account and I cant say there was any 
account activity that I think would reasonably have stood out to HSBC as suspicious or 
significantly outside of what might be expected for accounts of that type. Im also satisfied 
that the account had been running for a considerable time, and there was no notification of 
fraud on the account prior to the payments Mr S made into the account and no other red 
flags where it could reasonably be argued that HSBC might have had sufficient grounds to 
suspect fraud and refuse execution of their customers payment instructions.
So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied HSBC has demonstrated that it has taken reasonable 
steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. I also 
dont think HSBC ought reasonably to have had concerns where I would have expected it to 
have intervened, so I cant fairly say that it could have prevented Mr Ss loss in this way 
either.
Response to notification of fraud
The Best Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate action, in a 
speedy manner, upon notification of APP fraud and notify the Sending Firm if any funds 
remain for recovery. Here, once notified of the scam, Im satisfied HSBC took the necessary 
actions required of it and did so in a timely manner. Unfortunately, no funds remained in the 
beneficiary account as they had already been moved on / withdrawn from the account.
 So, taking the above into consideration Im satisfied, following notification of APP fraud, 
HSBC responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice Standards. 
And I dont think I can fairly say HSBC didnt do enough to respond to the alleged APP fraud.
Overall, while Mr S was the unfortunate victim of a scam, Im satisfied that HSBC met the 
standards required of it under the CRM Code. I also dont think HSBC couldve done 
anything more as the Receiving Firm to have prevented the loss of Mr Ss money. And it 
responded appropriately once notified of the fraud. So, it follows that I dont think they are 
liable to reimburse Mr S the money hes lost under the CRM Code or otherwise.
For completeness, I also think it helpful to set out that while I note Mr S provided contact 
details for Trading Standards, based on everything Ive seen and been told, Im not 
persuaded this point changes my conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman