DRN-3335449
The complaint
Mr C believes that Legal & General (L&G) and/or ReAssure Limited prevented him from 
drawing benefits in order to ensure that his policy was not part of the bulk transfer of 
business from the former to the latter. Mr C didnt want his pension to be part of the transfer 
so he would like the transfer of his policy to be rescinded. This complaint is against 
ReAssure Ltd, which is responsible for administering Mr Cs policy and, since the transfer, 
responsible for the actions taken by L&G.
What happened
L&G took the decision to transfer a book of insurance-based pension policies to ReAssure. 
Such a transfer of business requires a lengthy process of consultation and court approval, 
and this particular transfer was approved by the High Court on 20 August 2020. From 7 
September 2020 ReAssure were responsible for the relevant policies including 
administration and payment of benefits. 
Mr C had objected to the transfer of his policy to ReAssure, but the Court Order took legal 
effect for all policies from 7 September 2020. 
He wanted to, in his words, reduce his holdings ahead of the transfer. On 28 August he 
sent, by email and by post, a Request for Information and Risk Warnings form to L&G, 
asking for information on the ways he could take money from his pension. 
The form was recorded as being received by ReAssure on 26 October. ReAssure called Mr 
C for clarification on 11 November as he had selected all of the options on the Request for 
Information Form. ReAssure sent Mr C a Retirement Options Pack on 24 March 2021 and 
asked him again on 25 March which of the options he was interested in.
On 10 April Mr C explained to ReAssure that his understanding was that his policy had been 
transferred to ReAssure by mistake. He said that he had instructed L&G to reduce my 
holdings prior to the transfer because of his objections to the transfer. 
On the 27 April ReAssure again asked Mr C which of the retirement options were of interest 
to him. He replied on 2 May that he wished to take part as cash from L&G and Thereafter to 
explore the possibilities of arranging the remainder as an annuity. He felt that the simplest 
way to achieve this was for the transfer to be rescinded so that he could deal with L&G. 
On 5 May ReAssure emailed Mr C to explain that it would not be possible to rescind the 
transfer, but that they would be able to facilitate him taking an annuity with L&G. Mr C says 
he has no record of this email.
He again stated to ReAssure that he had instructed L&G to reduce my holdings because I 
objected to the transfer. He repeated his request for the transfer to be rescinded so that 
L&G could complete what he said was an ongoing process at the time the transfer of policies 
from L&G to ReAssure took place. 
ReAssure gave their final response to Mr Cs complaint about the whole matter on 1 June. 
They repeated the statement that the transfer could not be rescinded and apologised for 
delays on their part in relation to responding to Mr Cs information requests, offering £75 for 
the inconvenience caused. 
Mr C rejected the businesss response. He repeated that he had instructed L&G to reduce 
his holding by 25% and felt that the selection of options was a side issue. He said that he 
had instigated his request on 2 August 2020.
On 29 November Mr C contacted ReAssure again, having received the £75, but he remained 
unhappy that there had still been no action to rescind the transfer. He instructed ReAssure 
to transfer the account holding the policy numbers captioned above to Legal and General.
Mr C approached this service to resolve the issue, saying that in essence his complaint was 
that the process of reducing his holdings was interrupted in order to transfer his policy to 
ReAssure, an instruction which he repeated on 6 January 2022.
Our investigator carefully considered all the correspondence from both parties and felt that 
the now increased offer of £200 was a fair outcome. Mr C rejected this because he 
continued to believe that the Request for Information and Risk Warnings form gave a 
specific instruction to draw benefits from his pension. He also disagreed with our 
investigators statement that the form had not been received by ReAssure until 26 October 
since he had emailed it several weeks before then.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether the offer made by ReAssure is fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances. Im sorry that Mr C is going to be disappointed, but I agree with our 
investigator. 
Mr C says that he first initiated his request to L&G on 2 August. I think that it was in 
response to this request that he was sent the Request for Information and Risk Warnings 
form, which was the first step in drawing benefits from his pension. Although this was before 
the court approved the transfer of business from L&G to ReAssure, this approach from Mr C 
was not enough to prevent his policy from being a part of the transfer.
Mr C submitted the Request for Information form to L&G by both email and post on 28 
August. But the form was not an instruction to act, nor could it have been; it was, as the 
name suggests, a request for information only. Under each of the options Mr C ticked a box 
saying I would like information on. So I dont agree with Mr C that this form would have 
allowed L&G/ReAssure to do anything with his policy that would have prevented its transfer 
to ReAssure.  
Even if the form was a completed application, or other instruction, I think it was already too 
late by 28 August to prevent the transfer of his policy to ReAssure. So I dont think that it 
would be fair to hold ReAssure responsible for Mr C not being able to opt out of the transfer 
of his policy from L&G to ReAssure, or to make them rescind it if that was possible.
Nevertheless, Mr C sent a form by email on 28 August and ReAssure did not appear to 
receive it until 26 October. I find that there was clearly a delay between these dates caused 
by L&G/ReAssure.  Furthermore, there was no formal response to Mr Cs request for 
information until 11 November. And I can see no reason why ReAssure asked him to select 
which option he was interested in rather than, as he had requested, sending information on all the options he had selected. So I find that ReAssure did not act reasonably and did take 
too long to reply to Mr C, which I think he will have found frustrating.
Mr C continues to ask for his transfer to be rescinded. But I have to agree with ReAssure, 
and our investigator, that this would not be possible. ReAssure offered to help him transfer 
back to L&G and draw benefits from there so I dont think they could have done any more, 
although they could have done so earlier. 
And although there was a delay as I have already said, there is no evidence that it led to any 
financial loss or hardship. This is because, after being offered the various retirement options 
on 24 March 2021, including the option to take benefits from L&G in the form he wanted, Mr 
C has still not done so.    
Once ReAssure had taken responsibility for the policies, the only options open to Mr C were 
as described in his retirement options pack. I do not agree with Mr Cs characterisation that 
this was a refusal on ReAssures part, it was just not possible to rescind the transfer. 
There is disagreement between the parties about the email of 5 May 2021 (which explained 
the options available to Mr C).There is evidence that this email was sent, although it is not 
clear which email address it was sent to, and Mr C says that he did not receive it. While we 
cannot be sure given the conflicting evidence, I find that this email was not material in any 
event because the transfer of business from L&G to ReAssure had completed the previous 
September. Regardless of the contents of the email, and whether it was sent or received, it 
would not have changed the substantive position or allowed for any different avenues to be 
explored. 
Mr C later provided this service with copies of pages from the court order Appendices, which 
he felt supported his position. However these relate to the settlement of open derivative 
transactions at the date of the transfer of business and have no bearing on any individual 
policy such as Mr Cs.   
In summary, I find, and agree with our investigator, that ReAssure did not respond to his 
request for information in a timely manner, so they did not act fairly in this respect. However, 
ReAssure did offer to facilitate Mr C taking his benefits from L&G, which I think was fair and 
reasonable. 
I recognise that Mr C is likely to continue to object to the transfer of his policy to ReAssure. 
But as I have already said there was nothing more ReAssure could do about this. And they 
have offered Mr C £200 for the delays caused in responding to him. 
The offer, as our investigator said, is in line with what this service would award in similar 
circumstances.
My final decision
I agree with our investigator that ReAssures offer of £200 is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case. I am not going to require ReAssure Limited to do anything else. 
Therefore, if it hasnt already done so, and if Mr C accepts this decision, ReAssure should 
pay £200 to Mr C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Martin CatherwoodOmbudsman