DRN-3219455
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the service he received from Financial Administration Services 
Limited (Fidelity) after he was unable to place a trade online in February 2021.
What happened
The history to this complaint is detailed below where I have summarised the investigators 
opinion and, in my findings, where I consider appropriate. 
Mr H wasnt happy with the outcome of his complaint with Fidelity which he brought to this 
service. In doing so he told us:
He was complaining about a lack of communication and dialogue from Fidelity. He 
had concerns about Fidelitys website functionality, the requests for screen shots and 
its secure message system.
No-one at Fidelity made any attempt to understand, own or deal with his complaint in 
a professional way. 
He has spent a lot of money on phone calls and wants the costs to be reimbursed. 
He uses a pay as you go phone and had to call Fidelity many times which was 
expensive.
It was stressful for him to deal with his complaint. He was financially and mentally 
affected.
He experienced months of stonewalling, no contact after poor communication and 
service. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint said the following:
She provided a background to the complaint;
oIn January 2021 Mr H had raised various concerns with Fidelity about a 
technical issue with its website when trying to place a deal on 29 January. 
And on 31 January he sent a secure message asking for the ongoing 
technical issues about the website to be added to his complaint. This was 
resolved on 18 February under reference W558400-14021.
oMr H experienced a similar problem on 22 February when he was trying to 
trade online. He contacted Fidelity via secure message and was asked to 
send a screen shot of his error message he had received. Mr H had 
previously provided the wording of the error message but wasnt able to 
attach a screen shot to a secure message. In response he was provided with 
an email address and asked to send a screen shot. Fidelity said it wasnt able 
to replicate the message when mirroring Mr Hs account. Mr H said this was 
unacceptable and that he could no longer see the error message. He flagged 
it up as a complaint. Mr H sent an email to the address he was given but it 
was undelivered. He asked Fidelity to add this to his concerns. These 
concerns were acknowledged by Fidelity on 4 March.
oMr H received a final response letter on 11 March in relation to the earlier 
complaint which had been resolved on 18 February. He also received a 
further final response letter in relation to other issues he had experienced in 
January. Neither letters addressed the concerns he had raised about his 
experience on 22 February. 
oFrom 13 March through to a final response being issued on 19 April there 
were a significant number of phone calls and correspondence, the majority of 
which were initiated by Mr H. His concerns were about the lack of ownership 
or contact about his 22 February complaint. In the final response to the 
complaint his complaint points were acknowledged but it was confirmed that 
the two responses Mr H had received on 11 March were Fidelitys final 
response to his complaint. 
In her findings the investigator said Fidelity had accepted that the two final response 
letters of 11 March 2021 hadnt addressed Mr Hs complaint about the website 
problems he experienced on 22 February. 
The investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for Fidelity to have asked for a 
screen shot in order for the technical team to investigate the problems Mr H was 
experiencing. Nor did she think that the tone or the information requested was rude 
or unreasonable. Fidelity was trying to help resolve the problem which it couldnt do 
with just the wording of the error message that Mr H had provided. And once the 
error wasnt there any longer it, understandably, wasnt possible for Mr H to provide 
the screen shot. 
It was unfortunate that the email address Mr H was provided didnt work and it was 
understandable Mr H was frustrated and which was compounded by him not getting 
an explanation into why the error message occurred or a response to his complaint. 
She thought the root of the problem was caused by Fidelity linking Mr Hs                
22 February 2021 complaint to a different complaint which was discussed and 
resolved on 18 February 2021 (and was addressed in one of the final responses 
issued on 11 March 2021) under the reference I have quoted above. Mr Hs position 
was that that complaint had already been dealt with and he was entitled to expect an 
explanation for the errors he experienced when trying to trade on 22 February. 
The investigator concluded that it was reasonable for Fidelity to request a screen 
shot but that how it went about this caused Mr H understandable frustration. Fidelity 
had caused distress and inconvenience when not responding to his concerns and not 
providing him with an explanation in relation to the error message. And this included 
not providing him with a suitable way to send the screen shot via email as his attempt 
to do so had failed. She recommended that Mr H be paid £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
The investigator explained that she could only suggest compensation for the issues 
that related to the financial service Mr H was complaining about. She couldnt look at 
any issues relating to the complaint handling itself. 
In response, Fidelity made the following comments:
It confirmed that the email address that was given to Mr H on several occasions was 
the right one. It referred to Mr Hs message of 23 February 2021 which said I can 
now make the switch just now and can no longer screen shot an error message to an 
email address that I have only just been provided which it thought suggested that   
Mr H hadnt tried to use the email address on that occasion.
At the time the secure message service didnt include the functionality that would 
allow customers to attach a document such as a screen shot. It had provided an email address so that Mr H could send a screen shot as an attachment and which 
would have allowed Fidelity to investigate the error message. 
It maintained that its request wasnt unreasonable, and it had provided a valid email 
address. 
It said it valued Mr H as a customer and wanted to resolve the matter and agreed to 
make the offer of £150 as suggested by the investigator. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said:
It had previously been agreed by a representative of Fidelity that it was unacceptable 
and unnecessary to ask for a screen shot in lieu of a copy and paste of the actual 
error message. He had previously been offered £175 for a similar issue and had 
been told it shouldnt be happening. 
Mr H had already sent the copy and paste of the error message in a secure 
message.
The email address he was given didnt work.
He had already sent the error message by secure message and asking him to do so 
again wasnt reasonable. The email address wasnt necessary and didnt work and 
the investigator hadnt taken into account his chaser emails.
He didnt accept that his 22 February 2021 complaint had been linked to an earlier 
complaint. He thought the investigator was being naive. 
He didnt agree the offer was sufficient and referred to guidelines on our website and 
that it should be £300 and upwards.
Fidelity never had any intention of or made any attempt to grasp, understand or 
address his concerns in the two months from when he made his complaint. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs inability to trade and his subsequent correspondence with Fidelity
Ive reviewed the secure messages and correspondence provided by Fidelity that passed 
between Mr H and Fidelity and in particular the ones on 22, 23 and 24 February 2021. 
In response to Mr Hs concerns about the technical issues he experienced when he couldnt 
trade it said; 
we have several technical issues raised on your account. However as we are 
unable to replicate the issue(s) and the fact that there could be a number of reasons 
that these errors are occurring, we have requested screenshots. You raised this 
issue with us for the first time on 24 April 2020 as you were unable to amend the 
Regular Savings Plan online. Following on from this issue, you have experienced 
several technical issues with the website and we have done our best to assist you 
and ensure you are not disadvantaged in any way. 
It was explained that Fidelity couldnt resolve issues that it had no transparency of. The 
issues Mr H had been experiencing werent system wide and the best way for the technical 
team to resolve any issues was for it to be sent a screen shot. It couldnt replicate them at 
Fidelitys end. The email address to where the screen shot to be sent was given. In response to that message Mr H replied with the comment I have referred to above I can 
now make the switch just now and can no longer screen shot an error message to an email 
address that I have only just been provided. Fidelity replied confirming it had requested a 
screen shot to be sent to the email address and that it wasnt possible for Mr H to attach it to 
a secure message. It provided the email address again and further explained;
We are unable to replicate the issues you are experiencing when mirroring your 
online account. Therefore, in order to provide the best resolution, we require an 
image of the error. Please be advised, this is a standard requirement when 
investigating technical issue[s] with the website as even the URL in the search bar 
will change when an error occurs.
In response Mr H said; 
I am surprised, and somewhat dismayed by the request for the technical team for a 
screen shot of the issues faced  not least for the fact that I have copied the error 
message into previous messages sent and can see no way to attach a screenshot 
within this rather ramshackle messaging system. 
What is needed is an unconditional commitment from the technical team.and 
sorting this repeated issueFor reference, the error messages say:
A technical error stopped this deal from being completed. Please try again. 
Unfortunately we were unable to place your trade at this time our technical team 
have been notified. Please try again later. 
Fidelity confirmed receipt of the secure message and that it was awaiting a screen shot from 
Mr H in order for it to be able to investigate. Mr H wasnt happy and responded again. He 
wasnt sure what inferences were intended by the comment that Fidelity wasnt able to 
replicate errors and that the technical team could have emailed a screen shot with the right 
address as an error message and that he had repeatedly pasted the message but it had 
been ignored (I see from the file that Mr H had problems with the same issue earlier that 
year and had manually typed in the error message he was receiving). It wasnt his issue but 
Fidelitys that it wasnt able to replicate errors after he had cleared his cache and shared 
error messages received. 
Fidelity responded again reiterating it needed a screen shot and it was the best way for its 
technical team to understand the issue he was experiencing and why they reoccurred. 
Again, it asked for a screen shot and provided the email address. From the file, I cant see 
that Mr H responded to the last message in the conversation at that time which would be 
understandable as he no longer was able to access the error message he had received.  
Its clear from the above that this was a very frustrating time for Mr H. He couldnt place the 
trade at the time he wanted to and had experienced similar problems before. But, and like 
the investigator, I dont think it was unreasonable for Fidelity to have made a request for a 
screen shot. 
I do appreciate Mr Hs considerable frustration. He had sent the contents of the error 
message via secure message and subsequently he had cleared his history including the 
error messages he had received and after that inevitably he wasnt able to send a screen 
shot. But I think Fidelitys response prior to that was transparent in what it would need in 
order for it to investigate the error messages. And the reasons for it needing a screen shot. 
Quite simply it couldnt replicate what Mr H was seeing without a screen shot. 
Fidelity has explained to us that although it aims to ensure its platform is fully operational it 
cant guarantee customers are able to trade at all times without delays. And I would add I dont find this at all unusual with online platforms. It said issues are sometimes experienced 
by its customers, but the root cause of that issue may not necessarily be with its platform. As 
an alternative, customers can trade over the phone. And in order for Fidelity to be able to 
resolve a technical problem, a customer may be asked for further information such as a 
screen shot so that it can consider any wider issues, and this is what happened in this case. 
Mr H wasnt happy that the technical team werent able to investigate his concerns without 
the screen shot. He said that was Fidelitys problem and not his. Mr H is clearly unhappy 
with the need for a screen shot to be sent via email or the use of the secure messaging 
system as form of communication. 
When things go wrong, as it did in the case when Mr H was unable to trade, Id expect the 
business to try and fix that error. I think Fidelity did give a plausible, and in my view, a 
reasonable explanation of how it intended to go about fixing that error and what it needed 
from Mr H in order to do so. And while I know Mr H is frustrated by this, how Fidelity chooses 
to communicate with its customers is for it to decide and the terms of agreement it has with 
its customers. So, I dont think Fidelity was unfair or unreasonable in its requests to Mr H 
when it had explained to him how it was trying to fix the error he had experienced. 
Is the offer fair?
Mr H has said that he should be awarded more than the £150 recommended. It should be 
£300 or more. Mr H was undoubtedly inconvenienced when he wasnt able to trade. Ive 
considered Mr Hs point and I am aware he feels very strongly about the issue. But I have 
also borne in mind our long-standing approach to awards for distress caused. Clearly Mr H 
was frustrated by his inability to trade but I note he was able to trade shortly afterwards as 
confirmed in his message to Fidelity. 
But Fidelity didnt effectively respond to the issues Mr H raised after he was unable to trade, 
the subsequent error message he received plus his inability to send an email. It didnt issue 
a final response to the complaint he raised. However, and after taking all of this into account, 
I think £150 is fair compensation in the particular circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr H has referred to an earlier payment made by Fidelity of £175 when he experienced 
similar issues. I cant comment on the merits of that complaint and I should make clear that 
when we look into complaints, we consider them on their own individual merits so it wouldnt 
be right for me to compare one offer already made by Fidelity about a different complaint 
with this current one. 
Mr Hs complaint about Fidelitys response to his complaint  the handling of his complaint
Ive listened to all of the phone call recordings Fidelity has provided us with. Its very clear 
from those calls that Mr H was chasing for updates and he was extremely frustrated with 
Fidelitys response to his complaint raised in February. I know Mr H will be disappointed, but 
I cant look into this point as complaint handling is not something that this service can 
consider. 
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 and the accompanying rules known as Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) These can be
found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook (which is available online).
I have first considered whether this element of Mr Hs complaint is a complaint about 
complaint handling.DISP 2.3.1(R) lists the activities about which we can look into complaints. I am, in summary, 
able to consider a complaint under the compulsory jurisdiction providing it relates to an act or 
omission by a financial business in carrying out one or more of the regulated or other 
covered activities.
The FCA Handbook (Glossary Terms) explains what is meant by a complaint for the
purposes of the rules. It explains that it is an expression of dissatisfaction about the provision
of, or failure to provide, a financial service. This means a complaint solely about how a
complaint is handled falls outside of our jurisdiction. 
Mr H complained to us about the provision of a financial service  his concerns about 
Fidelitys online website, not being able to carry out a trade and Fidelitys subsequent 
responses to his concerns. And we were able to look into that. But he also complains about 
how his complaint was handled in that he believes Fidelitys complaint department didnt 
deal with his complaint in a satisfactory way. As Ive said above, Ive listened to all of the 
calls given to us by Fidelity and its evident Mr Hs concerns at this point were about the lack 
of ownership and progression of his complaint as well as his concerns about the culture 
within the complaint department. 
I agree with the investigator thats a complaint about complaint handling. And such a
complaint does not amount to a complaint about the provision of, or failure to provide, a
financial service. I am satisfied therefore, that I cant consider this element of Mr Hs 
complaint as it falls outside of our jurisdiction.
In conclusion, I accept Mr H was undoubtedly was frustrated by Fidelity when it didnt 
respond to his concerns and lack of explanation about the error message. But I dont think 
Fidelitys request for a screen shot to be sent via email was an unreasonable one (despite 
the fact that I cant know why his attempt to send the email failed). And taking all of the 
above into consideration, I think the offer is fair. It is now for Mr H to decide if he wants to 
accept the offer. 
Putting things right
For the reasons given above I think £150 is fair compensation in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint. 
(If Mr H wants to accept the offer Fidelity has asked that we make Mr H aware that it is 
presently unable to arrange payments by cheque. If Mr H wants to accept the offer, Fidelity 
says it will arrange payment by bank transfer and it could use the account information that it 
already holds. Or Mr H may prefer Fidelity to use another bank account and if thats the case 
Mr H should share the details with its complaints associates by secure message, phone, or 
letter. To avoid any delay in arranging the payment Mr H should quote Fidelitys reference 
for this complaint, which is W558400-140121. Alternatively, Fidelity said it could accept bank 
details that Mr H communicates via this service.)
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint that Financial Administration Services Limited didnt respond to his 
complaint as it should have done. But for the reasons give above, I dont make any further 
award for the distress and inconvenience he was caused than the £150 that has already 
been offered. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman