DRN-4032424
The complaint
Miss D has complained about Link Financial Outsourcing Limited reporting a default on her 
credit file, which she says is a duplicate.
What happened
This complaint surrounds an overdraft debt. The original lender defaulted the account in 
2017 and then sold it to Link in 2018.
Miss D complained that both the original lender and Link had entries on her credit file. She 
thought this meant that Links entry was a duplicate.
Our investigator looked into things independently and explained that Link were reporting the 
default correctly  it was a continuation of the original default rather than a duplicate.
Miss D didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand where Miss D is coming from and why, to her, it might look like Links default is 
a duplicate.
However, when Link bought the debt, they became responsible for reporting it on Miss Ds 
credit file. Because theyre a separate company to the original lender, their entry shows up 
separately. And because the debt had already defaulted before Link bought it, and Link are 
required to report the accounts actual status, its correct that they show it as having 
defaulted.
When lenders look at Miss Ds file, they see the raw data, and they will be able to see that 
Links entry is just a continuation of the same default the original lender registered  not a 
new or duplicate default. This is also reflected by how the original lender marked Miss Ds 
default as satisfied from the point it was sold to Link, and then Link only reported the account 
from that point onwards.
I hope I can reassure Miss D that this is a normal and correct way to report a defaulted 
account that got sold on. Links entry really is a continuation of the same default, not a 
duplicate.
I also understand that Miss D may be unhappy with how the original lender defaulted the 
account in the first place. But in this decision, I can only consider what Link did, and Link 
didnt originally default the account. That was done by the original lender, before Link were 
ever involved. Miss D may be able to raise a separate complaint with the original lender if 
shes unhappy with what they did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman