DRN-3746427
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) gave inappropriate advice 
when selling her an insurance policy. 
Mrs B has been represented by her daughter-in-law throughout this complaint. However for 
ease of reading all references to Mrs B include the actions of her representative.
What happened
Mrs B had a subscription package with a TV network provider. She had insurance with D&G 
to cover her TV equipment and the television itself. In September 2018 she tried to call the 
network provider to reduce her subscription. However she called a number which put her 
through to D&G. 
During the call the handler explained that Mrs B could pay less for her insurance and 
subsequently sold her a new policy to cover her TV equipment, television and a smart 
device. He then transferred Mrs B to the TV network provider to discuss her subscription. 
In May 2022 Mrs B made a complaint about the sale of the policy. She said that she had 
explained on the phone that she didnt use her TV subscription and was given misleading 
advice from D&Gs call handler. She also said that she had been vulnerable at the time as 
her husband had just been taken into a care home. And while she had explained this on the 
call, she hadnt been treated appropriately. She said if shed been given appropriate advice 
she would have cancelled her subscription with the network provider and wouldnt have 
taken out the insurance policy.
D&G didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint, so she brought it to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said she thought D&G were clear and transparent during the call and she didnt agree that 
Mrs B had suffered a consequential loss due to the service received. 
Mrs B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs B intended to call the TV network provider directly and called the wrong 
number which got her through to D&G instead. However from listening to the call I think the 
call handler did enough to explain this. The conversation centred around the insurance 
product and the handler explained that he would put Mrs B through to a different department 
to discuss the subscription after. I think this is enough to make it clear that the subscription 
wasnt being discussed and that the call handler could only help with insurance. 
Ive also considered the information provided about the insurance policy. The call handler 
explained clearly what the policy would cover. And Mrs B agreed to the cover and the 
devices included on the policy. While Mrs B has since explained that the insurance wasnt 
suitable for her, I could only say D&G acted unfairly if it hadnt provided enough information 
about the cover or if Mrs B had made it clear that it didnt meet her needs. However I dont 
agree either were the case here. The information given was clear and not misleading and 
Mrs B seemed to understand the cover and have no concerns, so I dont agree the policy 
was mis-sold.
I appreciate Mrs B was going through a very difficult time when she made the call as her 
husband had just been taken into a care home. And this would have made her vulnerable 
and information may have been more difficult to take in as a result. However from listening to 
the call Im satisfied that D&G did enough to explain things clearly in the circumstances. And 
Mrs B appeared to understand and agree to the policy. So I think D&G did enough to ensure 
Mrs B understood the policy she was agreeing to.
During the call Mrs B explained that she wasnt sure she needed her TV subscription and 
that she only watches certain channels. Shes said that the call handler at D&G persuaded 
her she needed a full subscription when it wasnt within his remit to advise on this. And this 
led to her continuing a subscription that she didnt need or want. 
Ive considered this but I dont agree the information given by D&Gs call handler was 
inappropriate, nor do I think it led to a direct loss. Mrs B asked about whether she needed 
the newer version of the TV box that she had currently. And the call handler explained that 
the newer version was now the standard version that the TV network provider offers all its 
customers. So regardless of the package that Mrs B selects, she will be using the newer 
version of the service. During this conversation, the handler offered no advice about the level 
of subscription Mrs B should take out or whether she should have a subscription at all. He 
just answered her question about the newer version of the service. So I dont agree this 
advice extended to Mrs Bs options for her TV subscription.
At the end of the call Mrs B was transferred to the TV network provider to discuss her 
subscription. I understand as a result she continued her subscription, rather than cancelling 
it. While I understand Mrs B now feels this wasnt the best option for her, I can only look at 
the actions of D&G as part of this complaint. And the decision to continue the subscription 
was made in the second part of the call with the TV network provider. Should Mrs B be 
unhappy with the information given on the second part of the call then this is something she 
would need to raise with them directly. But from listening to the call with D&G I dont think 
the information provided misled Mrs B or would have caused her to reasonably believe she 
needed to maintain her TV subscription.
For these reasons, I think D&G acted fairly when selling Mrs B the insurance policy and 
provided enough information to enable her to make an informed choice. I therefore wont ask 
it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman