DRN-3054854
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with how Lex Autolease Ltd trading as Black Horse dealt with the 
collection of a car after she voluntary terminated her hire agreement with them. 
What happened
On 7 March 2019, Mrs P was supplied with a car through a hire agreement with Black Horse. 
She paid an initial rental of £2,201.47, and the agreement was for 36 months with monthly 
payments of £244.61.
Mrs P asked Black Horse if she could voluntarily terminate the agreement in May 2020. They 
sent her a termination quote through a secure portal, but Mrs P was unable to access this. 
And she asked for this to be sent to her by post, which Black Horse did. Mrs P accepted the 
termination quote on 4 June 2020. 
Mrs P chased Black Horse on 15 June 2020, asking when the car would be collected. On 25 
June 2020, Black Horse asked Mrs P for the information they needed for collection, and she 
provided this the same day. Mrs P put the car into storage and Black Horse collected it on 25 
August 2020.
Black Horse initially charged Mrs P rental payments up to September 2020, but this was 
adjusted to recognise the earlier termination date. All rentals invoiced after 29 May 2020 
were refunded, and Black Horse gave Mrs P £30 compensation for the inconvenience. But 
Mrs P was unhappy that the revised balance payable hadnt been reduced by the amount of 
the storage costs. And she complained to Black Horse.
Black Horse didnt think that the storage costs were their responsibility, and they didnt agree 
to pay them. So, Mrs P brought her complaint to us for investigation. And the termination 
payment remains unpaid while the investigation into this complaint is ongoing.
Our investigator recognised that there was an unprecedented situation as a result of the 
coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. But he also said that it wasnt fair to hold Mrs P 
responsible for the delays. And, had the car been kept insured and taxed and stored on the 
road (as Black Horse wanted), then he wouldve expected Black Horse to cover the costs 
associated with this. So, he thought it was reasonable that Black Horse should cover the 
storage costs. And he thought that Black Horse should also pay Mrs P an additional £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience shed suffered.
Black Horse didnt agree with the investigator. They said Mrs P had told them that the car 
was being kept at her property, not in storage. But Mrs C explained that shed told them this 
in the hope theyd arrange collection - she was at the end of her tether chasing them for a 
collection date. And it wasnt actually the case  the car was kept in storage.
Black Horse also said that that the car had been kept in the wrong type of storage  it wasnt 
stored with a motor storage specialist. And Mrs C also explained why shed used this 
particular storage company. But, because Black Horse still didnt agree with the investigator, 
this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mrs P was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate complaints 
about it. 
The basic facts of this case arent in dispute. Mrs P accepted the termination quote on 4 
June 2020, cancelling the insurance and putting the car into storage. And Black Horse 
collected the car on 25 August 2020  around three months after the termination 
acceptance, and around two months after Mrs P had provided them with all the information 
they needed for collection. Because of this, my decision will focus on what I consider to be a 
reasonable remedy.
On 26 March 2020, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the UK government imposed a 
national lockdown in England. This wouldve meant that Black Horse would not have been 
able to collect any cars following the end of any agreements. On 15 June 2020, non-
essential businesses were allowed to re-open. And this would mean that Black Horse 
wouldve been able to recommence collecting cars.
While Black Horse had the ability to collect Mrs Ps care from less than two weeks after 
shed terminated the agreement, they would also have had a backlog to clear. So, Mrs Ps 
car would not have been able to be collected immediately. 
But I wouldve expected Black Horse to keep Mrs P updated as to what was happening. And 
provide estimated timescales as to when the car would be collected. I havent seen any 
evidence that they did this. But I have seen evidence that Mrs P was chasing them for 
updates, with increasing upset and desperation. So, Im satisfied that Black Horses service 
during this period was unacceptable, even allowing for any increase in contacts they may 
have had as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
As the car was in storage, Mrs P clearly wasnt using it for the 12-weeks before it was 
collected. Black Horse wanted the car to be insured and taxed during this period of non-use, 
which was a cost to Mrs P. And they also continued to charge her rental payments during 
this period. Had Mrs P done as Black Horse had asked then I would expected them to refund 
Mrs Ps tax and insurance costs, plus statutory interest. And I wouldve also expected them 
to pay statutory interest on any payment refunds. Which they didnt do.
Ive seen a copy of the storage invoice. This confirms storage for 12 weeks @ £30 per 
week. The invoice itself is undated, but the car was collected on 26 August 2020, and the 
invoice confirms payment was made on 30 August 2020. Which means that the car wouldve 
been in storage from around 3 June 2020. And this date ties in with when the termination 
quote was accepted, and when Mrs P says she stopped using the car.Ive seen emails from Mrs P to Black Horse, dated 25 June and 27 July 2020, where Mrs C 
refers to the car being uninsured and parked on the road, outside her home. From the tone 
of these emails, its clear that Mrs P is not only distressed about the situation, shes also 
desperate for Black Horse to let he know when the car will be collected.
Given this, Im satisfied this was an attempt by Mrs P to get Black Horse to act, by trying to 
make then think their asset (the car) was at risk of being towed and crushed for being left 
uninsured on a public highway. Even though the evidence of the storage invoice shows this 
not to be the case.
Im also satisfied with Mrs Ps explanation why she couldnt keep the car off road at her 
home (she has a small frontage, was having building works done, and didnt want to risk an 
uninsured car being damaged); and why she used the storage facility she did (it was local 
and cheap, so she was taking action to mitigate any losses).
Putting things right
Given the above, Im therefore satisfied that Black Horse paying the storage costs is 
reasonable in the circumstances. And Im also satisfied that Black Horse should compensate 
Mrs P for the distress and inconvenience she was caused. The investigator recommended 
£100, which I think is fair in the circumstance. And Ill adopt this as part of my final decision. 
But Mrs P hasnt yet paid the termination amount. So, its also fair that Black Horse can 
offset the storage cost refund against the amount owed by Mrs P.
So, Black Horse should:
reduce the outstanding balance by £360 owed by Mrs P, to account for the storage 
costs;
remove any adverse entries from Mrs Ps credit file, relating to the non-payment of 
the termination amount while this complaint investigation was ongoing; and
pay Mrs P an additional £100 to recognise the distress and inconvenience shes 
suffered as a result of the above.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint. And Lex Autolease Ltd trading as 
Black Horse should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman