DRN-3868217
The complaint
Mrs P complains, through a claims management company, that a predecessor scheme of
Zurich Assurance Ltd provided unsuitable advice in 2001. She feels the fund she was
recommended to invest in was too risky for her. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 December 2022 where I set out why I felt the complaint
should be upheld and what I felt the redress should be. An extract is below and forms part of
this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what I know about Mrs Ps overall financial situation when she took out this
investment. In addition to what the parties have told me, I think its reasonable for me to rely
on information in the fact find document and suitability letter.
Mrs P was employed, and her annual pre-tax income was around £10,000 per year. She
was married and she lived in the family home, which had a mortgage of approximately
£90,000. Together with her husband, they had approximately £700 net monthly disposable
income. Mrs P had two financial dependants. She was recorded as wanting to invest a lump
sum to supplement her income. This was coming from approximately £45,000 of joint
savings she held with her husband. She was also expecting their joint income to increase by
5%.
Ive thought carefully about whether the investment fitted Mrs Ps risk approach. Mrs P
needed to be comfortable that the level of risk associated with the recommended investment
reflected her attitude to risk. I agree with the Investigator, that I cant say she was. Her
attitude to investment risk wasnt confirmed and the only reference I can see to it, was in the
suitability letter where she is referred to regarding herself as having a balanced attitude to
risk.
As Zurich cant show how it assessed Mrs Ps attitude to risk or that it explained the risk to
her, I do not believe it was reasonable to recommend such a risk-based investment to her.
The fund fact sheet suggests it comprised of approximately 75% of equities, this included
overseas equities. Whilst I presume risk was discussed as it was mentioned in the suitability
letter (and there is nothing to show that Mrs P objected to the classification), I dont believe
she understood the risks involved. Zurich hasnt shown me that it explained that
lower risk investments could still have offered Mrs P potential for growth but at less risk to
her capital.
On balance, based on what I've seen and been told, I cant fairly make a finding that
investing in the PIB Managed Fund was a risk Mrs P was willing to take with her money. In
terms of risk, taking into account her limited investment experience and the indications that
she leant towards the more conservative/less speculative end of Zurichs risk scale, I think a
more cautious investment strategy wouldve been suitable for Mrs P.
So, I am not satisfied that the recommendation was suitable for her. This means Zurich
needs to take steps to put things right.
For all these reasons, I am upholding this complaint. 
Zurich didnt respond to the PD and so there was nothing further from them to consider. 
Mrs P responded through her CMC to say that she agreed with the PD and had no further 
comments for me to consider.
 
Putting things right
As neither party had any further comments for me to consider, my findings are as set out 
above and in my provisional decision. Zurich should put things right for Mrs P as set out 
below. 
I think the appropriate benchmark here is to compare what Mrs P actually earned with what 
she would have earned had she invested into funds where there was a small element of 
investment risk.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs P 
as close to the position she would probably now be in had she not been given unsuitable 
advice. 
I take the view that Mrs P would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs Ps circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
To compensate Mrs P fairly, Zurich must:
Compare the performance of Mrs P's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation 
is payable.
Zurich should also pay interest as set out below.
If Mrs P paid separately for the life cover, Zurich should ensure she is 
compensated for this extra cost by refunding the premiums paid plus 8% simple 
per year from the date the premiums were paid to the date of settlement.Portfolio 
nameStatus benchmark From start 
date")additional
interest
Portfolio
Investment 
bond- 
Managed 
FundSurrendered For half the
investment FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
total Return 
Index;
For the other half:
Average rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of
InvestmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per
Year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark,
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Zurich should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why Is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
I have found that Mrs P most likely wanted capital growth with a small risk to her 
capital.
The average rate of the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure of someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSEUK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset Classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.I consider that Mrs P's risk profile was in between in the sense that she was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mrs P into that position. It does not mean that 
Mrs P would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of Index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs P could have obtained from investments 
suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I uphold this complaint and Zurich 
Assurance Ltd should put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman