DRN-3293079
The complaint
N is unhappy with how Santander UK Plc dealt with it, and its account, when it explained it 
had been the victim of an investment scam.
What happened
N made a number of payments to invest between April and July 2018. It paid three different 
companies. By debit card it made payments to Prestige FM and EW*Trading Finance; and 
also a large international payment. Based on the evidence N has, it seems most likely the 
company it invested with was acting fraudulently and N was the victim of a scam.
N has been able to recover the international payment and received £9,213.04 back from 
Prestige FM. But that leaves debit card transactions totalling £19,865.22 outstanding.
N wants Santander to refund this money to it, as it considers it shouldve done more to 
prevent N being the victim of this scam.
Santander didnt uphold Ns complaint. It didnt agree it needed to step in with the payments, 
as it checked the first transaction was genuine by messaging N about it  and N replied 
saying it wanted it to go ahead. And Santander said it couldnt carry out a chargeback as N 
didnt have the evidence needed under the rules.
N brought its complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into this complaint and upheld 
it, as they considered a chargeback shouldve been carried out  and wouldve most likely 
succeeded. Santander didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2022. My findings are 
summarised below:
Chargeback
I set out that Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately 
arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between 
them. And that the arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim.
I considered that Ns situation was covered by the rules, as Visa expanded them to cover 
situations whereby binary options/investment traders prevented cardholders from 
withdrawing their available balances from 14 October 2017. However, I said there was only 
one applicable reason code for these type of transactions.
The applicable reason code was 53 (later re-coded by Visa to 13.5) and it required very 
specific evidence. N needed to present dated evidence that it had an available balance (in 
the form of a screenshot or confirmation from the merchant) and that it tried to withdraw 
sums equal to, or less than, this available balance on the same day.
N didnt have this information available when Santander had asked for it, as the company 
prevented it accessing this information. I explained that Santander could only have 
successfully presented a chargeback claim if N had produced this evidence, as specified by 
the rules. And without it, Santander shouldnt have put in the chargeback claim. So, I said 
Santander wasnt being unfair in not pursuing a chargeback claim on Ns behalf. Under the 
rules it had to follow, the claim shouldnt have been made, as there was no reasonable 
prospect of success.
Limiting Ns loss
I then considered whether Santander shouldve contacted N about the transactions at the 
time it first started investing. It had a duty of care to look out for unusual transactions and 
also couldve carried out additional checks with N before agreeing to the payment  or in fact 
couldve stopped the payments altogether, if necessary.
Reviewing Ns statements, I thought an opportunity was missed by Santander in relation to 
this duty. I considered that Santander shouldve contacted N about the transactions it made 
on 12 April 2018. It made three card payments that day, totalling €7,500 to a new payee  
EW*Trading Finance. Looking at Ns statements, it rarely made foreign transactions and 
never to this level. And I couldnt see a history of it investing either.
However, if Santander had called N, I wasnt confident this wouldve unravelled the scam. I 
explained that at this time there wasnt information available to Santander that N was 
involved in a scam. It couldve warned it about general risks in international investments, but 
it wouldnt have known N was going to lose funds. And considering the research N had told 
us itd done and the way the investment business was conducted at this stage, I wasnt 
convinced N wouldve stopped the payments at this point. It was aware how it was investing 
and that it was making international payments to do so.
N then received some funds back from its investments in early June 2018, five days before it 
made a €10,000 payment. Again I thought this payment could be classed as unusual for N 
and as Santander hadnt contacted it previously, it could be argued this was a further 
opportunity to contact N and discuss the payments. But considering N had just received 
money back from its investment, I didnt think any intervention at this stage wouldve stopped 
it wanting to invest more either. Again, at this time Santander wouldnt have had information 
on the company to suggest it was a scam or acting fraudulently. So I couldnt say that any 
intervention by Santander wouldve stopped N making these payments. And then any 
payments from this time on wouldnt have flagged to Santander, as theyd have been 
considered in character for N and in line with its instructions.
In response to my provisional decision, Santander said it had nothing further to add. N 
disagreed and provided additional comments.
N said it would have acted on any warnings given by Santander, so if it had called up on 
12 April 2018, it wouldve then stopped investing. It said chargeback was applicable to its 
case and that Visa wouldve helped it. It also referred to Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act and some information on other scams. 
N said Santander hadnt protected its account as it should have. It said that when it first 
contacted Santander in August 2018, it shouldve explained the chargeback process then, as 
at that time, N wouldve been able to get the information Visa needed and so recovered all 
its funds. It also considered that our first assessment was the correct outcome and due to 
the time that has passed, this couldnt be changed. I exchanged some emails with N on its points, following its response. And the case has now 
been returned to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision N explained the reasons Santander shouldve been 
able to proceed with a chargeback in September 2018, but as I have already set out directly 
to N, I dont agree this was something Santander needed to do.
To summarise our discussions, N has suggested it shouldve been able to complete the 
chargeback as it didnt receive the services it paid for, as this was in fact fraud. But the 
chargeback rules exclude claims for fraudulent transactions, under Reason code 30  
services not provided. So this then wouldnt have been successful even if Santander had 
attempted it. N said Visa wouldve helped it as it didnt pay a legitimate company, but I 
explained Visa has set the chargeback rules and has done so with the intention of only 
covering certain situations. So, unfortunately, it wouldnt have helped, as this situation is 
specifically excluded by the rules.
N has also said a Section 75 claim shouldve been raised, but Ive explained that this applies 
to goods or services bought on credit only. It paid on debit card from its own account, so the 
transactions dont have this protection. And N then provided information around scams 
involving authorised push payments  but Ns payments were pull payments, so this also 
doesnt change my decision.
Chargeback
N set out that Santander should have told it about chargeback and what was needed in 
August 2018, when it first contacted Santander about the payments and the investment. Ive 
considered this point and I think the timeline of events is key here.
N first called Santander about these transactions on 13 August 2018. N has complained that 
Santander said itd received the service paid for, so it couldnt raise a chargeback claim in 
this call. But I havent seen anything to suggest this was wrong.
Neither N nor Santander realised N was the victim of fraud at this time. N was unhappy with 
the way its investment had been managed  I understand a trade was placed without its 
agreement  but this isnt a valid chargeback ground. So I dont agree Santander gave the 
wrong advice. As above, the only grounds for an investment chargeback relates to a failed 
withdrawal and N hadnt tried to withdraw its funds at this time. I wouldnt expect Santander 
to have proactively discussed this with it in this call, as there was no indication of fraud or 
that withdrawals could later be a problem.
The next record of Santander discussing the fraudulent investors with N is 29 August 2018. 
I accept that in this call N says it believes the merchant is fraudulent and it has tried to 
withdraw funds and been unsuccessful. This shouldve prompted Santander to discuss 
chargeback and what evidence was needed. Santander didnt do this for a further week and 
by this time N had lost access to the platform, so couldnt provide the screenshots needed. 
Ive considered whether this missed opportunity by Santander has caused N a loss.
N has provided us with a detailed account of its conversations with Prestige FM. Its 
explained that it emailed and attempted to withdraw its funds on 21 August 2018. And it 
chased this with Prestige FM on 23 August 2018. N says it was then manipulated to trade again, but requested this was done only through its bonus and not capital. N lost money from 
these trades and has explained the difference in the value in its account was so high that it 
was concerned somebody had hacked it. Its said it told Prestige FM it would be taking legal 
action against them after this trade. So by the time N spoke to Santander again on 29 
August 2018, its clear Prestige FM was on notice N no longer trusted them and was looking 
to end its relationship. And N has told us the funds in its account were drastically depleted. 
In order to successfully complete a chargeback, N wouldve needed to show a screenshot of 
its account with its available balance at the time of its requested withdrawal. And show itd 
made a withdrawal request for this amount or less. I fully accept that this whole situation has 
come about due to fraudulent action, but the Visa chargeback rules arent for fraud, as 
covered previously. So what they are looking to cover is someone who is trying to withdraw 
available funds in their investment, but who is being unfairly prevented from doing so. I dont 
know what was left in Ns account by 29 August 2018, when it did speak to Santander, but 
the notes from this call say N said all its funds had now been lost.
I accept N did have a much higher balance when it made the 21 August withdrawal attempt. 
But I dont have any record of N and Santander speaking between the 13 and 29 August 
2018. And I dont consider Santander shouldve talked N through the details of an 
investment chargeback prior to 29 August 2018, as it wasnt apparent to Santander that Ns 
investment was fraudulent or that it wouldnt be able to withdraw its funds. And by the time it 
did have this information, it seems Ns account had effectively been cleared  which as I set 
out in my provisional decision, is unfortunately very common practice by scammers when 
they realise the scam is unravelling.
I accept its possible N couldve still accessed its account on 29 August 2018 and provided 
the required screenshots, but I cant be certain this was the case. And N cant now show it 
did have an available balance left in the account on that day either. I also know N was 
looking to recoup all its invested funds via chargeback, but that isnt how this process works. 
The most it couldve claimed for was its available balance at the time of the requested 
withdrawal, not everything that was invested.
Ive considered Ns further submissions in relation to chargeback, but Im still not upholding 
its case on these grounds. Unfortunately it seems most likely it was too late to get the 
required evidence by the time I consider Santander shouldve been aware N was the victim 
of a scam. So I think its more likely than not its chargeback claim wouldve always failed. 
Limiting Ns loss
N disagrees with my finding that even if Santander had called it about the payments on 
12 April 2018, it still wouldve gone ahead with the investment. Its said that when the bank 
told it not to close down the chargeback claim it listened  and it wouldve also done that if 
theyd called about the payments.
But I dont agree with N these situations are comparable. N believed itd been scammed by 
the time it raised the chargeback and so Prestige FM was on the back foot and no longer an 
organisation it trusted. When it was first investing, as it has told us, they were providing a 
good quality service and had gained its trust. And, as Ive set out to N before, Santander 
wouldnt have known at the time the payments were being made that Prestige FM was a 
scammer. So while I accept it couldve asked N more questions around the payments and 
directed N to do some research, it wouldnt have told N not to make the payments. And N 
has told us it did do this research before it started investing, so I still think it wouldve told 
Santander it was satisfied with the firm and to make the payment.
In relation to the research, N has said that it did research to the extent it could as a layperson and not a financial specialist. And Santander, as a specialist, shouldve done 
research too and identified this was a fraudster and blocked the payments. But I cant agree 
with N on this point.
Weve previously set out there werent warnings about Prestige FM or EW*Trading Finance 
on the IOSCO or FCA register at the time the transactions were made, something we 
consider Santander could create links to in its system to automatically block payments. N 
says Santander should be doing more to help all customers and stop this kind of fraud. But 
this level of detail and service by Santander would require it to have individual staff members 
researching and checking the thousands of new payments that are made on its accounts 
everyday  which the payers are expecting to be processed in seconds. This isnt 
reasonable or something that could realistically be done. And, while in Ns case this may 
potentially have led to a longer-term benefit, tens of thousands of customers would be 
caused great inconvenience if all payments to new payees were stopped pending specialist 
research. 
N had the benefit of time, as it was choosing to make these payments and so could do its 
research and then only process the payments when it felt confident. And I accept it did this. 
Whereas Santander was being asked to make the payments and so had a very small 
window to either process them or decline them pending further questions. I dont consider 
there was a reason for it not to process the first set of payments. And I dont agree it had any 
responsibility to research the destinations of payments after they have been sent, as N has 
also suggested. As above, in relation to the payments on 12 April 2018 and 14 June 2018, 
while I accept these payments ought to have triggered an intervention by Santander, Ns 
further comments havent persuaded me this wouldve prevented these or any further 
payments being made.
I understand this has been a huge loss for N and it has been the victim of a sophisticated 
scam. But I dont agree Santander has acted unfairly in how it handled this situation once N 
was in contact with it, or for declining to refund any of the debit card payments.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman