DRN-3774936
The complaint
This complaint is about an interest-only mortgage Mr B and Ms O hold with Barclays Bank 
UK PLC. The main point of the complaint, in summary is that Barclays wont accept their 
proposals for repaying the mortgage in part.
Mr B and Ms O are represented here by Mr C.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr B and Ms O, Mr C and Barclays. 
Im also aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr B and Ms O being identified. Instead Ill provide a brief summary and then focus 
on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint, or 
because it fell outside my remit. 
Mr B and Ms O have long-standing arrears on their mortgage; theyve made no monthly 
payments since 2017. Theyve made various requests of Barclays in the past to accept a 
short settlement in clearance of the full debt. These have been rejected, and in a final 
decision I issued in May 2021 on a complaint they made, I concluded that Barclays was 
under no obligation to give the most recent shortfall offer (which was £145,000) any further 
consideration. 
Indeed, my final decision in that complaint made no order or award of any kind against 
Barclays for how it had treated Mr B and Ms O up to that point. Nothing I said therein obliged 
Barclays to agree to any future proposal that might be made, and if anything of that nature 
has been inferred, then it should not have been.
Later in 2021, Mr C made various new shortfall settlement proposals to Barclays. These 
were for £195,000 (against a total debt of around £267,000), payable in stages, with lump 
sums following by regular monthly payments. The offer made in October 2021 was made up 
as follows:
an immediate payment of £75,000 from a family member;
a second payment of £75,000 in January 2024 also from a family member; and
payments of £1,000 each month for 45 months*.
*The letter from Mr C with details of the offer didnt specify whether the monthly payments of 
£1,000 would begin immediately, or after January 2024.
Barclays rejected the offer, and then rejected the resulting complaint. When the case was 
referred to this service, our investigator didnt think Barclays had treated Mr B and Ms C 
unfairly. Mr C asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
FCA. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing 
that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. 
To be clear, this final decision doesnt revisit anything that happened before May 2021; it 
deals solely with Barclays response to the short settlement offers received in the latter part 
of 2021. If I make any mention of events prior to my final decision from May 2021, it is for 
reference only. 
Everything has a context, and here that context is that Mr B and Ms O stopped paying their 
mortgage in 2017, and have never resumed paying it. Thats five years ago, and they still 
live in the mortgaged property. Lenders arent required to wait indefinitely, and I cant fairly 
find Barclays to be at fault if it has run out of patience.
Mr C has said Mr B and Ms O could have made payments during that period, but didnt do 
so as a protest at the way Barclays was treating them. That doesnt help their case; 
deliberately withholding payments that are contractually due and could be paid (even if only 
in part) can only ever make a bad situation worse. 
I now turn to the shortfall settlement proposal of late 2021. It seems to me there are several 
problems with it. Firstly, the aggregate value of the various components of the offer add up 
to £195,000, leaving a shortfall of over £70,000 still owing and with no proposal as to how 
and when that would be paid.
Secondly, when deciding whether to accept a settlement proposal, Barclays is required by 
the FCA to assess whether the borrowers can afford it. As Ive already said, Mr B and Ms O 
havent made any payments in the last five years, and theres no obvious indication that any 
of the money being offered now is coming from them. Indeed, the two lump sums forming 
the bulk of the offer are said to be coming from a family member, and the proposal is silent 
on who will make the monthly payments of £1,000. 
Theres no detail about who the family member is, or what their financial standing is to make 
the offer, but theres a further problem. Lenders arent required to factor the financial 
situations of family members into the decisions they make on affordability, and I wouldnt 
expect Barclays to do so here.  The unnamed family member isnt a party to the mortgage, 
and hasnt given a personal covenant to pay the mortgage; so Barclays has no recourse 
against them in the event the payments arent paid.
Thirdly, Mr B and Ms Os mortgage term is due to expire in November 2023, at which point 
the entire debt will fall due for repayment in full. That means the shortfall settlement proposal 
that is the subject of this complaint is contingent on Barclays being willing to extend the 
mortgage term. No one is entitled to borrow money; and even when theyve borrowed before; theyre not 
automatically entitled to more time to repay the debt after it has fallen due. But a lender must 
treat customers fairly. In the context of an application for a term extension, that means 
assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria and being mindful of what 
mortgage regulation requires of it. Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not 
generally made public. 
Mr B and Ms O havent actually made an application for a term extension, at least not 
explicitly, but the shortfall settlement proposal made by Mr C on their behalf can reasonably 
be treated as one, if only by inference. Barclays has said its not willing to extend the 
mortgage term beyond the date set out in the original contract between it and Mr B and 
Ms O. In all the circumstances, I cant reasonable find that to be unfair, not least because of 
the affordability issues I have already alluded to. 
The key thing any lender is looking for when assessing whether to agree to any form of 
forbearance proposal  whether that be a shortfall settlement or a term extension, both of 
which are relevant here - is stability. When borrowers have been in financial trouble, the 
lenders will typically only agree a change if its satisfied the instability that caused the arrears 
in the first place has now passed, and the proposed change is about recovering from a 
financial shock that has now passed, even though its effects have not. Im not persuaded 
thats the case here.
Any one of the above, on its own, would justify Barclays saying no to the shortfall settlement 
Mr C proposed in late 2021. When they are taken together, there are no grounds for me to 
uphold this complaint. 
Going forward, I think it is also important to explain here that lenders will generally agree to 
put recovery action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they dont have to and we cant 
force them to. If the Financial Ombudsman Service had that power it would undermine our 
impartiality between the parties to a complaint. 
It would also create the potential risk of consumers using our service to bring complaints with 
the intention of obstructing businesses that were trying to take legitimate action through the 
courts to recover money owed to them. I do not wish to alarm Mr B and Ms O, but I would 
not want them to be under any misunderstanding that Barclays would need to suspend any 
recovery action in the event of any new complaint being raised with our service.
I make one final point, just for completeness. Mr C has referenced conversations he has 
held with senior executives at Barclays Annual General Meeting (AGM) where he said 
further dialogue was promised and then didnt happen. The Financial Ombudsman Service 
has no remit to consider what happens at an AGM, as they are not a regulated activity 
covered by our jurisdiction.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms O to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman