DRN-2012212
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint relates to his trading account with Monecor (London) Ltd (trading as ETX 
Capital) and to the margin call closures of his open trades on 12 March 2020 (the date). He 
is unhappy about an error made by ETX Capital in the course of the forced closures and he 
says ETX Capital was unreasonable in giving him insufficient notice and/or time to address 
the margin call (and to avoid the forced closures). 
What happened
Available evidence shows the following:
Mr B held a retail account; the terms for the account required him to maintain a 
minimum margin at or above the level of 50%; ETX Capital also says this was 
supported by regulation  the rule at COBS 22.5.13 R  whereby it was (and is) 
obliged to ensure that net equity in a retail clients account does not fall below 50% of 
the margin requirement in the account.
In the early hours of the date the margin level in his account fell to 31.26%; this 
constituted a margin breach and prompted a margin call; a margin call email was 
sent to him at 1.16am informing him he was below the minimum margin requirement 
and requiring him to fund his account in order to address this; he did not react to the 
notice and around half an hour thereafter positions in his account were forcibly 
closed to address the margin breach; ETX Capital concedes that it was required to 
do no more than restore the account to 100% margin level and that it erroneously 
closed one more position (an open Wall Street based trade) than it needed to, 
resulting in the account unnecessarily reaching the margin level of 161%.
Before the forced closure, the Wall Street based trade (the trade) had a floating 
loss; later on the date and in correspondence with Mr B, ETX Capital accepted its 
error and offered to repair it by reinstating the trade; however it pointed out that if the 
trade was reinstated at the time (around midday on the date) its floating loss would 
be worse, due to price movement; Mr B declined the offer; he explained to this 
service that he did so because he considered the offer should have been coupled 
with a refund of his outlay for the trade and payment of the total loss arising from the 
overall forced closures.
Specific terms for the account, which ETX Capital has referred to, provided that it 
was/is the account holders responsibility to maintain and monitor margin levels in an 
account; that it is an account holders responsibility to respond immediately to any 
margin call notice received  where one is sent  by funding the account to repair the 
margin breach; and that ETX Capital can, with or without a margin call and without 
notice to the accountholder, respond to a margin breach in an account by closing any 
or all open trades within it.
In the main, Mr B says financial compensation must arise from the erroneous closure that 
ETX Capital has expressly conceded; and that further compensation must arise from its 
unfair closures of all the other positions, given that he had funds available to deposit in the 
account, given that he would have done so if he had reasonable time to pick up and react to 
the margin call  which ETX Capital did not give him  and given that had this happened the 
forced closures would have been avoided. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and mainly concluded as follows:
The complaint should not be upheld.
The terms for Mr Bs account and the state of margin in the account on the date 
justified ETX Capitals application of the forced closures of his positions.
ETX Capital has admitted the error it committed; it offered a reasonable correction to 
that error; in contrast, Mr Bs expectation and ground for declining the offer was 
unfair; a refund of his outlay for the trade would have meant more than returning him 
to a position, but for the error; it would have meant a risk free benefit (to him) from 
the trade, given that it had a floating loss; it also appears that the erroneous closure 
already gave him the benefit of avoiding further loss in the trade.
Mr B disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator. I do not 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.
The margin breach in Mr Bs account on the date does not appear to be in dispute. If he 
disagrees, and for the sake of completeness, I confirm that I am satisfied with evidence that 
his account was operating at the level of 31.26% margin when the margin breach occurred 
and that level was below the 50% margin requirement in the account. I am also satisfied that 
the existence of the margin breach was reinforced by the regulators rule that ETX Capital 
has referred to  which required a firm to ensure net equity in a retail clients account does 
not fall below 50% of the margin requirement in the account.
The same analysis applies to ETX Capitals right to close positions in order to repair a 
margin breach. I do not consider that this should be in dispute, given the express terms for 
the account which gave it this right and given that a part of the regulators rule that has been 
mentioned also gave/gives firms discretion to close open positions in a retail clients  account 
where net equity within it falls below 50% of its margin requirement. Following the margin 
breach in Mr Bs account, ETX Capital was entitled to close his open positions to repair that 
breach.
The two main matters in dispute appear to be: 
Mr Bs view that there was a lack of notice to him about the margin breach; he says, 
with reasonable notice, he would have deposited funds into the account and avoided 
any forced closures of positions.
Whether (or not) ETX Capitals offer to Mr B was fair redress for its error in 
excessively closing his positions  in this respect, I note that the error itself is not in 
disputed, it has been accepted by ETX Capital and the only issue to consider from it 
is redress.
I can understand Mr Bs position on the first issue. The margin call email was sent in the very 
early hours of the morning on the date and, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, it is 
not implausible that he would have been asleep at that time and that he would not have seen 
the email until a number of hours later that morning (perhaps around or after 8am). I can see 
why he could consider that the email was rendered pointless by the fact that ETX Capital proceeded to close his positions only half an hour after sending it. However, none of this 
addresses the following key points: 
ETX Capital was not obliged to send the margin call email; in addition, it might be 
worth noting that having sent the email, the terms expressly required Mr B to react 
immediately by funding the account  although I appreciate that he would argue, as 
noted above, that it was not feasible for him to have done so.
ETX Capital was not obliged to give him any notice prior to closing positions in his 
account in response to the margin breach.
It was primarily and solely his responsibility to maintain margin in his account and to 
monitor the account sufficiently to ensure that margin level in the account remained 
above the minimum requirement. Had he done this, it is reasonable to expect that he 
ought to have funded the account beforehand  with the resources he says were 
available  in order to avoid the margin breach and distinct from trying to fund the 
account to repair a breach that had already happened.
On balance and for the above reasons I am not persuaded that ETX Capital owed Mr B 
notice of the margin breach or that it should have done any more beyond the margin call 
email to notify him about it.
With regards to ETX Capitals closure error and the sort of redress Mr B expects for it, I 
share the investigators reasoning. A fair and reasonable basis to correct the error would 
have been to restore the trade that was wrongly closed. This is precisely what ETX Capital 
offered to Mr B. It was a reasonable offer and by rejecting it Mr B denied himself of fair 
redress in the matter. 
I do not suggest that he was obliged to accept the offer. He was not. Given that, at the time 
of the offer, the relevant price had moved further against the trade and had worsened the 
pre-existing floating loss in the trade, I can see why he might have decided to decline the 
offer. However, the point remains that ETX Capital discharged its responsibility to repair its 
error by making that fair offer. Having done that, and with Mr B declining the offer, I do not 
consider it has any further responsibility in the matter.
In terms of the suggestion, or claim, that Mr B should be given a refund of his outlay for the 
trade  as though the trade never happened  that would not be a fair outcome. The trade 
happened, it was placed by Mr B and ETX Capital played no role in that. This is not a matter 
of ETX Capital committing an error in opening the trade it is a matter of it committing an error 
in closing it  so whilst fair redress would be to re-open the trade that should not have been 
closed, fair redress would not be to pretend the trade was never opened in the first place 
(and to put Mr B in a better position whereby he avoided the loss that the trade was already 
making at the point it was wrongly closed). 
My view could be different if the trade was in profit when it was wrongly closed and if it 
thereafter went into a loss when the reinstatement offer was made  in which case (and 
depending on relevant circumstances) there could be a legitimate claim for lost profit. 
However, this was not the case for Mr B. The trade was already in a state of loss when it 
was wrongly closed. 
I appreciate that the loss had worsened at the time the reinstatement offer was made. Mr B 
could argue that the additional loss should be compensated for but, on balance, I would 
disagree. It is essentially his evidence that he wanted to keep the relevant positions open 
(hence his objection to all the forced closures) and there is no evidence that he would have 
closed the trade at the level it was when it was wrongly closed or that he would have closed 
it any time prior to when the offer was made. The implication, therefore, is that in the absence of the erroneous closure the trade would have remained opened  so the additional 
loss at the time of the offer was not directly caused by the erroneous closure.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman