DRN-3590348
The complaint
Miss J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to tell her that she could ask it to take 
action to recoup over £17,000 that she lost in what would appear to have been a scam. 
Because Barclays staff incorrectly told her that there was nothing that could be done, she 
spent £4,800 on debt recovery services. She would like that sum refunded to her.
What happened
In August 2021, Miss J began to suspect that she had been scammed, for over £17,000. 
She tried to contact Barclays in various ways, leaving a secure message, but struggled to 
get through on the phone, and ultimately went into a branch to speak to someone. She was 
told that, because she had not used a debit or credit card, and had instead done a bank 
transfer, there was nothing that Barclays could do to help her. She was told to speak to 
Action Fraud. Miss J raised a complaint with Barclays about the poor service she felt shed 
received.
On 13 September 2021 Miss J paid £4,800 to a debt recovery company, having read that 
they had had some success in getting money back from this type of scam. On 15 September 
2021 a Barclays representative spoke to her and correctly told her that she could log a 
scam claim with a dedicated team. She did, and the original amount was ultimately 
returned to Miss Js account.
Miss J complained to Barclays that she had only paid the £4,800 debt recovery fee because 
it had failed to let her know that it could potentially help, so she believed it was her only 
chance of getting any money back. Therefore she wanted Barclays to refund that amount.
Barclays accepted it had got things wrong and its staff hadnt let Miss J know that she could 
log a scam claim. But it refused to refund the £4,800 to Miss J, saying that it hadnt 
recommended she use a debt recovery firm. Instead it paid £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience the situation had caused.
Miss J didnt accept that and came to this service. The adjudicator thought that Barclays 
should refund the cost of the debt recovery firm, so upheld the complaint. Barclays hasnt 
responded to that view, so the case has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it, for broadly the same reasons as the adjudicator did.
Barclays accepts it made mistakes in this case, both in respect of not dealing with things in a 
timely matter, and giving incorrect information in branch. In its final response letter to Miss J, 
it states that this incorrect information has resulted in you appointing a Debt Collection 
Company  So it would seem Barclays accepts the link between its mistake and Miss J 
seeking the services of the debt recovery firm.
Of course there is no suggestion that Barclays recommended that Miss J did so, but it is my 
role to determine any loss that is caused by a businesss mistake. Not what it did or didnt 
recommend. I think it is more likely than not that Miss J would not have paid for the services 
of a debt recovery firm had Barclays taken one of the opportunities it had to direct her to its 
fraud team, for the logging of a scam claim.
To be clear, there were multiple opportunities for Barclays to do this. It seems not to have 
responded to Miss Js secure message of 5 August 2021 in which she clearly says she has 
been scammed. I can then see an internal query being raised by a Barclays staff member on 
11 August 2021 asking colleagues whether Miss Js problem should be logged as a 
scam and re-allocated to the scam queue Again, it seems no action was taken. And 
then at the end of August 2021 branch staff said there was nothing that could be done.
So I am satisfied that Barclays made mistakes in this situation, and that, on balance, those 
mistakes did lead Miss J to unnecessarily pay for the services of a debt recovery firm. 
Barclays hasnt responded to the adjudicators uphold view, so it has raised no further 
defence or evidence for me to review. It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right for Miss J, I direct Barclays to:
Pay Miss J £4,800 to cover her costs as outlined. This is in addition to the £400 
compensation it has already paid, which I consider to be fair in respect of the clear 
distress and inconvenience Barclays mistake caused Miss J.
Add 8% simple interest* to that amount from 13 September 2021 to the date of the 
complaint is settled and pay her that.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to deduct tax from this interest. It should
give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman