DRN-4186619
The complaint
Ms G complains that when she enquired from Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosolite 
Mortgages about a payment holiday, she wasnt called back as had been promised. Ms G 
then made a number of overpayments which affected her eligibility for such a payment 
holiday. 
What happened
Ms G has a mortgage with Rosolite. This mortgage was based on a mortgage offer dated 6 
December 2007. It was for a loan of £365,750 on an interest only basis with a term of 25 
years. It has a feature called a Choices flexible payment scheme. In July 2022, Ms G 
contacted Rosolite with a number of questions. The adviser her told her she could make 
overpayments without paying any charges. The adviser said that she couldnt answer her 
question about a payment holiday and said that the relevant team would call her back. Ms G 
didnt receive a call back. In the meantime, she made two overpayments of £10,000 in total. 
In November 2022, Ms G contacted Rosolite about a payment holiday. Rosolite said that as 
Ms G hadnt complied with the terms of the Choices product in respect of the overpayments, 
which required the overpayments to be made with notice and on a monthly basis in addition 
to the contractual monthly payments, that she wasnt eligible for a payment holiday under the 
terms of the Choices product. In respect of the failure to return Ms Gs call it offered 
compensation of £25. But following our investigators view it offered compensation of £250. 
Our investigator issued a number of views and in her final view recommended Rosolites 
offer as a solution to the complaint. Ms G disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G had a mortgage with a Choices flexible payment scheme facility. My reading of the 
scheme documentation under the heading Pay more, pay less is that a customer can make 
monthly overpayments via direct debit and build up a reserve and then later pay less by an 
agreed amount or take a payment holiday. Ms G didnt make the overpayments along with 
the monthly payments in accordance with the terms of the Choices product. Ms G made two 
one-off payments and so didnt qualify for the payment holiday under the Choices scheme.
I have to consider whether Rosolite acted fairly. Overpayments of a mortgage dont normally 
entitle a customer to later use the excess as a reserve on which the customer can later draw 
and as the Choices documentation says take a break from your mortgage altogether. On 
the other hand you can withdraw the extra you have paid in cash.  
Normally overpayments lead to a reduction in the mortgage balance but are otherwise 
irrecoverable once they are paid. They dont normally result in the ability of a customer to 
take a payment holiday. Payment holidays of course can be considered by lenders when 
dealing with customers in financial difficulties in paying their mortgage and of course there 
was a wider scheme backed by the government to assist borrowers during a period of the 
Covid Pandemic. But the issue at stake here is whether Ms G has an entitlement to avail of 
the payment holiday scheme under the Choices product that she has with Rosolite. I dont 
believe she has as she didnt make the overpayments in accordance with the terms of the 
Choices scheme which meant that she couldnt use those overpayments for the payment 
holiday. That scheme required her to make the overpayments on a monthly basis and the 
amount of the overpayments were limited.
The other question is whether Rosolite mis-informed Ms G as to how the scheme operated 
so depriving Ms G of her ability to use the scheme. Rosolite will say that Ms G already had 
the information about the scheme from the original mortgage offer and the accompanying 
documentation and that it had provided information in that as to how the scheme worked. 
But this complaint relates to a phone-call in July 2022. Ive listened to that call. Ms G wanted 
quotes on two assumptions that she would make overpayments of £10,000.00 or £25,000.00 
and whether she could make those overpayments without penalty. The adviser told her that 
she could. Ms G later wanted information about how payments holidays worked, 
emphasizing that she didnt then need one and was told that there would be a call back from 
the payments holiday team. That call back didnt happen, but Ms G proceeded to make the 
overpayments anyway without a follow-up call of her own to confirm how the payment 
holiday works. 
Whats clear in the phone call is that Ms G doesnt mention that shes looking information 
about the Choices scheme. Her call is about making substantial overpayments, the effect on 
the monthly payments and whether there would be penalties and whether she could make 
the payments online. The adviser responds to what shes asked about. Theres a moot point 
as to whether the adviser should have recognised that Ms G could benefit from the Choices 
flexible payment scheme and how Ms G could structure her overpayments to do so. But the 
adviser isnt asked about the scheme and Ms Gs questioning was direct and business like 
and didnt encourage further discussion. The adviser answered what she was asked, and 
she wasnt asked about the Choices scheme. So, I dont find that the adviser was at fault for 
not advising on the operation of the scheme.
So, I dont consider that Rosolite mis-informed Ms G. There is an issue of a failure to make 
the call back to Ms G as to how the payment holiday worked. I agree that that was a failure 
on Rosolites part for which Ms G should be compensated and I agree that £250 represents 
reasonable compensation for the distress suffered. But I dont agree that the failure caused 
Ms G financial loss. Ms G chose to proceed without knowing what the effect of the 
overpayment would have on a future payment holiday. If the call back didnt come, thats 
certainly a service failure but Ms G could have tried herself to make contact with the 
payment holiday team looking an answer to her query before making the overpayment. It 
was Ms Gs choice to go ahead without getting any clarification from Rosolite about the 
effect of overpayments on her ability to get a payment holiday. Ms G could have persisted 
with her request or indeed looked out the Choices booklet for her own information. But I cant 
hold Rosolite responsible for Ms Gs actions which made her ineligible for the payment 
holiday under the Choices scheme. 
Besides the offer of £250 compensation, Rosolite has also offered a number of options to Ms 
G depending on what she wants to do with the £10,000 overpayment she made and is 
willing to refund that sum but that would result in a higher balance and a higher monthly 
payment. I will leave that choice to Ms G although I wouldnt expect Rosolite to allow Ms G a 
reasonable period to consider this offer but wouldnt expect it to be kept open indefinitely. 
So, I would expect Ms G to decide on that option within six weeks of the date of this 
decision.Putting things right
Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosolite Mortgages should pay Ms G £250.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosolite Mortgages to 
pay Ms G the compensation referred to above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman