DRN-3063097
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Oplo HL Ltd irresponsibly lent to her. She says she couldnt afford the 
loan and Oplo shouldnt have lent to her.
  
What happened
Oplo lent Mrs B a loan in May 2017, the loan was for £5,000, the term of the loan was 60 
months with monthly repayments of £139.34. 
When Mrs B complained to Oplo about the lending, it didnt uphold her complaint and so 
Mrs B referred her complaint to this service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. Our investigator ultimately thought that Oplo shouldnt have lent Mrs B the 
loan. 
Oplo disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, Oplo should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer could repay without borrowing further or suffering significant adverse 
consequences.
Oplo was required to gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed 
decision on the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out 
compulsory checks, they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before 
agreeing to lend. The key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to 
take into account a number of different things, including things such as how much was being 
lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. Oplo was also expected to 
take into account and react appropriately to what it knew about the consumer at the time it 
made its lending decision.
Did Oplo carry out sufficient checks?
Oplo has provided evidence to show that before lending, it asked Mrs B about her monthly 
income and expenses, searched her credit file, it also verified her employment and 
requested her bank statement.
On the face of it, it looks as though Oplo carried out sufficient checks before lending, but a 
closer look suggests that it didnt appropriately react to the information it gathered, and it 
should have taken it checks further.
Mrs Bs application states she was borrowing the loan for home improvements, the bank 
statement she provided seems to show only a limited view of her bank transactions, from 
what I can see there was only payments to and from one company. I think this should have 
raised concerns for Oplo as it ought to have been aware that it is unlikely that a reasonable 
persons bank statement for about a three-month period will only show transactions to and 
from one company. 
The bank statement Oplo has provided doesnt show transactions for Mrs Bs basic living 
expenses for things like mortgage, utility or food and so it wasnt reasonable for Oplo to 
simply rely on that information, it should have not only verified Mrs Bs income, it should also 
have verified her expenses including credit commitments. So overall, I dont think Oplos 
checks went far enough.
 
What would proportionate checks have shown?
Mrs B has provided a full version of her bank statements for the same period Oplo and from 
the statements Mrs B has now provided to this service, I can see that her income was similar 
to what she declared to Oplo.
I can also see that Mrs B was paying a significant portion of her monthly income towards 
credit when including the repayment of this loan. Mrs B was close to the limit of all of credit 
cards, something Oplo saw from its credit checks, Mrs B has said she was close to her limits 
because she was struggling financially. I find this plausible as her bank statements also 
show that she was in more than one payment arrangement with other lenders, she was 
regularly borrowing from other high cost credit lenders and had payments outstanding to 
them.
Had Oplo reacted appropriately to the information it gathered, it is likely to have found that 
Mrs B was reliant on credit and couldnt sustainably afford to repay this loan over its five-
year term. This was borne out in the fact that Mrs B has been experiencing difficulties 
keeping up with the repayments of her loan.
In the circumstances, Oplo shouldnt have lent to Mrs B and it needs to put things right.
 
Putting things right  what Oplo needs to do.
remove all interest and charges applied to loan;
treat all payments made by Mrs B as payments towards the capital amount of the 
loan;
if this results in an overpayment pay interest of 8% simple a year on any 
overpayments from the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
if theres still a balance outstanding, Oplo should agree a suitable repayment plan 
with Mrs B.
remove any negative information about loan from Mrs Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to take off tax from this interest. Oplo must give Mrs B a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and direct Oplo HL Ltd to put things 
right as set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman