DRN-3285680
The complaint
Mrs E has complained about the service received by Barclays UK PLC (Barclays). She 
said Barclays delayed the transfer of her cash ISA to a third party and this led to her 
incurring investment losses. 
What happened
Mrs E held a cash ISA with Barclays. Mrs E said she signed a letter of authority for her 
financial advisor to act as her representative, with Barclays, and obtain information about her 
cash ISA. This, said Mrs E, was with a view to her financial advisor requesting a transfer of 
the cash ISA, to a stocks and shares ISA with a third party. 
Mrs Es financial advisor is also Mrs Es representative in this complaint.
Mrs Es representative said he contacted Barclays on 31 March 2020 and submitted with it 
an application to find out more details about Mrs Es Cash ISA. He said he would have 
expected a transfer of a cash ISA to have taken up to four weeks to conclude so would have 
expected it to have been concluded by 1 May 2020. He said this is the date Mrs E started 
making investment losses due to Barclays delays. 
The representative said he wrote again on 2 July 2020 but again heard nothing from 
Barclays. He said he also made a series of phone calls to Barclays but still did not receive a 
reply. This he said, then prompted Mrs E to go into a Barclays Branch on 7 August 2020 and 
again on 13 August 2020. He said Mrs E told the branch staff that the representative had 
written in March 2020 with authority from her to move her cash ISA to a stocks and shares 
ISA with a third party.
Mrs Es representative said Barclays contacted him on 30 October 2020 to say it hadnt 
received the letter of authority. On 4 November 2020, a letter of authority was re-submitted 
to Barclays, but this was initially rejected due to Mrs W not signing it. This was then resolved 
by the parties. An information request was then submitted by the representative and then he 
put in a further request to transfer the cash ISA, on 20 November 2020. Four days later on 
24 November 2020 Barclays had completed its part in the transfer. The transfer was then 
completed with the third party on 9 December 2020. Mrs Es representative then arranged 
for the funds to be reinvested by the third party on 18 December 2020.
The representative said due to a long delay by Barclays in dealing with the transfer request, 
that it should pay investment losses from 1 May 2020, this being the date he felt the transfer 
should have been completed by. It should then, he said, pay up to 18 December 2020, this 
being the date Mrs E had invested her money. He provided a form with his calculations on, 
that came initially to around £2633.  
Barclays responded and in its final response said it was not responsible for any financial loss 
that Mrs E or her representative felt they had incurred. It said it holds no records of Mrs Es 
representative contacting it in March or July 2020. It said it couldnt locate any postal 
requests from Mrs E or her representative and the first it had contact from either of them was 
when Mrs E came into a branch on two occasions in August 2020. It said it logged a 
complaint from Mrs E on 14 August 2020. 
It said due to backlogs it had accrued, Mrs Es complaint wasnt allocated to a complaints 
handler until 13 October 2020. It said its complaint handler then discussed with Mrs Es 
representative, the letter of authority. And then it carried out its part of the transfer on 24 
November 2020 and the transfer was completed on 9 December 2020. It said it carried out 
its part of the transfer within a reasonable time, from when it received the request to when it 
had completed. So, it didnt think it was responsible for a delay or should pay Mrs E any 
investment losses.
Barclays did think there had been a delay in dealing with Mrs Es complaint though and 
offered £200 to Mrs E for distress and inconvenience that its handling of her complaint 
caused. It said it offered £100 for the time taken to resolve her complaint and £100 for the 
lack of support she received when she went into the branch.  
Mrs E was not happy with Barclayss response. So, an investigator from our service looked 
into her complaint. She sent her view to both parties and felt Barclayss offer was a fair one. 
She made the following findings:
She said the representative wrote to Barclays on 31 March 2020 and again on 2 July 
2020. But Barclays say it didnt receive these letters. She was unable to say why this 
was the case or that Barclays were at fault for this.
She said she had not seen any evidence that Mrs E was spoken to rudely in her two 
branch visits. But Barclays have said its service could have been better and have 
offered £200 distress and inconvenience payment for this. She concluded this was 
fair.
She summarised what then happened with the transfer and noted the whole process 
took 28 days to complete, which she says was within the government guidance of 30 
days. 
She didnt think Barclays needed to take any action and didnt uphold Mrs Es 
complaint.
Mrs E, through her representative disagreed and said Barclays took an inordinate amount of 
time to deal with the transfer that meant she incurred investment loss. 
As the parties are not in agreement, Mrs Es complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mrs Es complaint, as I see it, is how long Barclays took to carry out her 
representatives instructions to transfer her cash ISA to a third parties stocks and shares 
ISA.
Mrs Es representative said he put in a letter of authority to Barclays and a request for 
information about the cash ISA. He said he did this in March 2020 and again in July 2020. I 
have seen the letters that he said he sent to Barclays. But I have also seen notes and 
correspondence from Barclays where it has said it did not receive these letters. There are also no entries in its customer log to say it received them. So, although I dont doubt what 
the representative has said, is what happened, I can also see that Barclays have not logged 
them or said they received them as well. 
I can see that the letters were addressed to a general servicing centre rather than a 
department that would deal with service requests for ISAs. I can also see that the 
representative did not mention any intention to make a transfer at that stage either. So, 
although I dont know what happened here, on balance, I dont think it would be reasonable 
for me to conclude, that Barclays should have started to carry out the transfer of Mrs Es ISA 
in March 2020 or July 2020, for the reasons I have given.     
Mrs Es representative also said he called Barclays but again there were no calls logged by it 
up to when Mrs E went into a branch. So, up until the point Mrs E went into a branch to 
discuss her cash ISA with a member of staff, I am not persuaded it had been contacted by 
her or her representative. So, I dont think it did anything wrong up to this point.
Ive next looked at what happened between the parties from the point that Mrs E went into 
the branch in August 2020, up until Barclays received a request to transfer the cash ISA on 
20 November 2020. Mrs E says she went into a branch twice and then shortly after, put in a 
complaint about the service she had received. Mrs E says staff were rude to her when she 
requested help. 
I can see that during this time, Mrs E and her representative were trying to get a letter of 
authority submitted. The letter of authority form was to allow Mrs Es representative to carry 
out instructions on her behalf. The representative was also trying to submit his own 
information request form. This is something that the representative requested but I cant see 
that it was a necessary requirement for the parties to arrange the transfer. I note that 
Barclays has since said that it was not part of its own practices that an information request 
form needed to be filled in. It said it would have been able to give details of the cash ISA to 
Mrs E over the phone or in a branch at any time. It would also have been able to do the 
same after it had processed the letter of authority, from the representative. Mrs E or her 
representative could have then requested the transfer of the cash ISA after they had 
received this information. 
In any case, the delay that occurred from the point Mrs E went into a branch in August 2020 
up to the point her representative put in a transfer request on 20 November 2020, was in 
relation to a letter of authority and information request. It was not in relation to a request to 
transfer Mrs Es cash ISA to a third-party stocks and shares ISA. Mrs E or her representative 
may have taken a different course of action on receipt of the information they requested. Mrs 
E or her representative would still have needed to decide whether to put in a transfer request 
after they had received the information they had requested. So, although I do think Barclays 
were partly responsible for a delay in handling Mrs E and her representatives service 
requests, I dont think it caused a delay to transferring Mrs Es Cash ISA at this point.  
The letter of authority form was eventually accepted on 12 November 2020. Barclays said it 
then received a request by Mrs Es representative to transfer her cash ISA on 20 November 
2020 and four days later Barclays had completed its part of the transfer. The transfer then 
went ahead on 9 December 2020. So, from the date of the transfer request to the date it 
went ahead, I think Barclays had carried out its part within government guidelines. The time 
it took here was reasonable. 
Barclays offered to pay a £200 payment for distress and inconvenience for the delay in time 
it took to resolve Mrs Es complaint and for the way it handled her service request in the 
branch. It says it could not find any evidence its staff were rude to her, but it could have done 
more to assist her at this time. I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Im sorry that it is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs E as she would have liked 
Barclays to have paid her additional compensation for investment losses. But for the reasons 
I have given, I dont think this would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of her 
complaint.
My final decision
Barclays has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays should pay £200, if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman