DRN-3447195
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (TPF) rejected his claim under section 75 
Consumer Credit Act in respect of a faulty caravan.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
TPF is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. 
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
He caravan was bought in May 2017, collected in July 2017 and cracks were first identified 
in February 2019. Mr Cs evidence has been both credible and consistent throughout and I 
am satisfied that he had not made significant use of it. 
The cracks were repaired under warranty in May 2019 and this suggests the retailer and /or 
the manufacturer accepted that the cracks were not down to wear and tear or misuse. The 
repair failed and the cracks reappeared and a second repair was needed. This necessitated 
the front of the caravan being removed and replaced. This resulted in the roof being warped 
and the cracks reappeared. This second repair took eight months.
A caravan should be durable as set out above and I dont consider that cracks appearing 
after some 18 months can be said to be a sign of durability. Mr C had every right to expect 
trouble free use of the caravan for many years and it is clear that this is not the case.
TPF has said that it is up to Mr C to supply an independent report. It acknowledges that he 
has made every attempt to do so, but without success. While that would have been useful, I 
do not see the lack of a report as a major impediment in allowing me to reach a decision. I 
am satisfied that the detail of the numerous repairs which were required is sufficient to let me 
conclude the caravan was not fit for purpose. I should add that Mr C has confirmed that a lot 
of build quality issues were repaired in April 2018 in addition to the major issue set out 
above.
Quite simply the caravan was not sufficiently durable and I do not consider it was fir for 
purpose at the point of sale.
As for a deduction for use by Mr C given the time was deprived of the caravan and the 
additional costs he has incurred I dont think that is needed.
Putting things right
Mr C should be allowed to reject the caravan as set out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to:
Arrange for the caravan be collected at no cost to Mr C.
Allow him to reject it and refund his initial cost of £21,994.
If he was charged interest on his £1,000 credit card payment this should be refunded. 
Any other charges he may have incurred as a result of this £1,000 payment should 
refunded.  
Any money refunded should carry interest at 8% simple from the date paid until the 
date repaid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman