DRN-1741275
The complaint
Mr W (who is represented by a CMC) says Harvey & Thompson Limited (H&T) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
 
What happened
Mr W had a number of cheque-based loans from H&T. Our adjudicator condensed these into 
four loans, on the basis that cheque loans issued on the same day were essentially one 
lending decision. Our adjudicator thought the third and fourth lending decisions, both in 
May 2009, were unfair and said H&T should refund the interest Mr W paid towards these 
loans.
H&T accepted this but said Mr W wasnt due a refund, due to the amount of outstanding 
principal. Mr W said he wasnt aware he owed H&T anything  and hes asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
I dont think theres any ongoing dispute now about the overall outcome of this complaint. 
H&T accepted the adjudicators view about the third and fourth set of lending and neither 
Mr W nor his CMC have suggested they think the first two loans ought to have been upheld.
So the only issue left to resolve is whether Mr W has an outstanding principal balance with 
H&T, which H&T can offset against the refund of interest and charges.
Mr W has been given ample opportunity to provide further evidence the cheques he provided 
to H&T all cleared and that he therefore settled all of his loans. I appreciate that these loans 
were approved in 2009, so obtaining this evidence may be difficult. But to date, Mr W has 
provided nothing. So the only evidence I have available is that provided by H&T. And this 
evidence shows that a number of the cheques provided by Mr W did not clear. So on 
balance I am satisfied that it is likely there is an outstanding balance and H&T can take this 
into account when calculating redress.
The redress methodology Ive set out below is principles based and does not set out an 
amount H&T has to pay Mr W. This means if Mr W is now able to provide H&T with evidence 
he repaid the loans in question, H&T will have to take that evidence into account.
 
Putting things right
H&T should refund the interest charges on the loans it has agreed to uphold (3 and 4). It 
should add 8% simple interest to the refund, from when Mr W paid the interest and charges 
(if he did) until the date of settlement. H&T can offset any unpaid principal against this 
refund.
H&T should also remove any adverse information in respect of these loans from Mr Ws 
credit file  if any such information is still being reported.
My final decision
My final decision is that Harvey & Thompson Limited has made a fair offer to settle this 
complaint. Harvey & Thompson Limited should put things right by taking the steps set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman