DRN-2823658
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as V have complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly
turned down a claim under the Public and Products liability section of Vs commercial 
insurance policy. Mr P, the director of V, has brought the complaint on Vs behalf.
What happened
V claimed on its policy after a theft of property at a site it was contracted to guard. The
circumstances of the theft involved one of V's guards being deceived by thieves, who
claimed to have instructions to remove the property they stole from the site. The property
they took was valued at over £100,000.
Ageas ultimately turned down V's claim. It said it was a condition precedent to liability that V
vetted its guards in accordance with the British Standards BS7858 Code of Practice (COP).
Ageas said its investigation showed that the guard tasked with guarding the site had not
been vetted in accordance with the required COP. The guard had a Security Industry
Association (SIA) licence, but this wasn't the same as the required vetting. It said as V
hadn't carried out the vetting required by the policy it didn't have to pay the claim.
Mr P was unhappy with Ageas's decision to reject the claim and brought a complaint to this
service. He said the guard was experienced and Ageass loss adjuster hadnt asked for
further information which would have shown how the guard met the required COP standard.
Mr P provided further evidence, such as professional and character references and 
information about the guards previous employment.
Our investigator asked Ageas if it would have sold V the policy if it had known V hadnt
carried out vetting in accordance with the policy terms. Ageas provided evidence to show
that it wouldn't have offered the policy to V. It said the proposal form included a section that
asked if V carried out vetting of its guards in accordance with the British Standards BS7858
Code of Practice. V had ticked the box to confirm it did.
Our investigator didn't recommend that V's complaint be upheld. He thought it was a
condition precedent to liability that V carry out the vetting specified in the policy and V
hadnt done that. He also thought that Ageas had shown it wouldnt have provided cover to
V if V had given the correct information when buying the policy. So, he didnt think it was fair
and reasonable to ask Ageas to pay the claim.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigator. He said he had understood that the SIA licence was 
an acceptable equivalent to the British Standards BS7858 Code of Practice. He said the 
vetting requirements in the policy should have been explained more clearly to him and his 
broker when he bought the policy. He said Ageas had taken the premium without making the 
requirements clear. He also said he didnt think the way the guard had been vetted made a 
difference to the theft that was perpetrated in the circumstances of this case. And he said 
that he couldnt obtain all the documents needed to carry out vetting in accordance with the 
British Standards BS7858 Code of Practice because the guard hadnt been born in the UK. 
He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 August 2020. In that decision I set out
why I thought V hadnt complied with the condition precedent to liability that required it to
carry out vetting procedures in accordance with the British Standards BS7858 Code
of Practice. I also said that not complying with the vetting procedures would have made the
theft more likely, but that I didnt need to make a finding on that as I thought Ageas wouldnt
have offered the policy to V if it had known V didnt carry out the required vetting procedures.
I noted that when buying the policy, Mr P had confirmed on the proposal form that V did vet
its guards in accordance with the British Standards BS7858 Code of Practice, when that
wasnt correct. As a result, I didnt intend to require Ageas to pay Vs claim, as the policy
wouldnt have come about if Mr P had provided the correct information to Ageas at the
outset. I did however, think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Ageas to
refund Vs premium, as Ageas had confirmed that there wouldnt have been any cover under
the policy, given that the condition precedent hadnt been met.
Both Ageas and Mr P responded to my provisional decision.
Mr P reiterated that he didnt think the vetting of the guard had any impact on whether the
theft would have taken place in the circumstances of this case. He said the guard was fully
checked and had glowing references from a large security firm.
Ageas said it wasnt looking to rely on Mr P not making a fair presentation of the risk. It said
it didnt think it should be required to refund Vs premium as there were parts of the policy
that would still have provided cover and the policy was still live.
After considering the responses from both parties, I asked Ageas to explain whether it
believes section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015 bites in this case. I then received further
information from Ageas, which I took into account in my updated provisional findings
copied below.
In summary, Ageas said:
The purpose of the condition is to provide assurance that the employee can satisfy
the levels of competency for the role theyre to be employed in.
A Security Officer is a position of trust and responsibility and the required checks are
necessary to ensure a guard warrants that position.
Compliance with the standard is necessary to ensure the risk being covered is
reduced to an acceptable level.
I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint on 14 May 2021. In that I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Vs policy had a General Conditions section. This section says
that all conditions are conditions precedent to liability.
The condition in the policy relevant to this complaint provides:
19 Vetting of Employees and Subcontractors
The Insured will at all times obtain satisfactory references in respect of
a) all Employees before any person is employed
b) all subcontractors before any subcontractors are engaged in accordance with
(i) British Standard BS7858 Code of Practice for Security Screening ofPersonnel employed in a Security Environment and/or British Standard BS7499
Manned Security Services Part 1, Code of Practice for Static Guarding and
Mobile Control Services or any amendment thereto in respect of Employees
engaged in guarding activities or the provision of key holding services or
security installation servicing or maintenance services or activities or
(ii) British Standard BS7960 Code of Practice for Door Supervisors/Stewards or
any amendment thereto in respect of Employees engaged in door supervising
activities or stewarding work.
So, in this case it means that V had to vet any guards in accordance with the British
Standards BS7858 Code of Practice and/or British Standard BS7499 Manned Security
Services Part 1, Code of Practice for Static Guarding and Mobile Control Services (Ill refer
to these as the British Standards). And if it failed to do so, under the policy terms, Ageas
wouldnt have any liability for a claim where this was material, such as theft of property being
guarded.
Its also relevant to consider section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015 (the IA) which provides:
11. Terms not relevant to the actual loss
(1) This section applies to a term (express or implied) of a contract of insurance,
other than a term defining the risk as a whole, if compliance with it would tend to
reduce the risk of one or more of the following
(a) loss of a particular kind,
(b) loss at a particular location,
(c) loss at a particular time.
(2) If a loss occurs, and the term has not been complied with, the insurer may not  
rely on the non-compliance to exclude, limit or discharge its liability under the 
contract for the loss if the insured satisfies subsection (3).
(3) The insured satisfies this subsection if it shows that the non-compliance with 
the term could not have increased the risk of the loss which actually occurred 
in the circumstances in which it occurred.
(4) This section may apply in addition to section 10.
     
In its submission to our Service, Ageas hasnt said that it thinks the condition precedent 
in Vs policy relating to the vetting of employees and subcontractors is a term defining 
the risk as a whole.
So, from that position, Ive considered section 11 of the IA, as if it bites this will mean that
Ageas is not able to rely on non-compliance with the vetting requirements under condition 19
to exclude its liability in this case. So, the first question I need to consider is whether the
vetting condition requiring Vs guards to be vetted in accordance with the British Standards is
a term that tends to reduce the risk of a loss of a particular kind (section 11(1)(a) being the
most applicable category here). And, in my view, compliance with a term requiring
compliance with a specific vetting procedure is one that would tend to reduce the risk of loss
of a particular kind. That is, the purpose of the vetting procedure is to ensure that the
persons employed/contracted as a security guard have the required skills and diligence to
carry out their duties. And, compliance would tend to reduce the risk a guard may fail to
perform their intended security function.
The next question I need to consider is whether section 11(3) of the IA is satisfied in this
case, that is: can V show that non-compliance with the vetting procedure could not have
increased the risk of the loss which actually occurred in the circumstances in which it
occurred? I have carefully considered all the submissions made by Mr P and Ageas on this
issue.Ageas said that the requirement for guards to be vetted to the standards set out in the
condition precedent is to ensure they satisfy the level of competency for the role. This
includes checking employment history and identifying any gaps in employment and security
screening. Ageas said that, by not carrying out the checks to this standard, the theft was
more likely to occur, and the risk wasnt reduced to an acceptable level.
Mr P says hes now provided documents to show the guard would have met the standard
required. However, he couldnt get all the documents he needed as the guard wasnt
born in the UK.
In my view I think the loss that occurred in this case (i.e. the theft) was one that 
noncompliance with the required vetting procedure could have increased the risk of. That is, 
a guard vetted to the required British Standard would have been less likely to be tricked by 
the thieves and/or would have followed the correct procedure and not have allowed the 
thieves access to the property in the circumstances in which the loss occurred).
In light of the above, I dont think V have satisfied section 11(3) of the IA and it follows that
section 11(2) does not bite in this case. So, in this case, I am satisfied that section 11 of the
IA does not prevent Ageas from relying on Vs non-compliance with the vetting conditions to
exclude its liability under the contract.
If I am incorrect about the application of section 11 of the IA, Im still required to make a
decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Mr P hasnt argued that he carried out vetting in accordance with British Standards,
but says that he understood the SIA licence met the same requirements. However, I dont
think it does. I say that because Ageas has provided an extract from the SIA website that
explicitly says having a SIA licence doesnt necessarily mean a guard will meet the
requirements for BS7858, i.e. the British Standards. And, in any event, the wording of the
policy, (and the proposal documentation), clearly stated a specific vetting requirement and
did not mention a SIA licence as an alternative. I am therefore satisfied that it is not the
same thing and that this should have been clear to Mr P from the outset.
I understand Mr Ps frustration, as he feels that hes been able to provide many of the
documents that would have been required for the guard to meet the required vetting
standards. And those that he hasnt been able to provide, he would never have been able to
get. However, under I think the policy wording (and the question on the proposal) was clear
about the required vetting standard required.
And, as set out above, I am satisfied that failing to vet a guard to the standard required by
the policy could have increased the risk of the theft. I say this because the policy requires
the vetting standard in order to show that the guard is competent to carry out the role. And if
they arent competent in carrying out the role then this could lead to theft occurring in the
manner that happened in this particular case.
As, Ive said above, Im also required to make a decision on what I think is fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances. In doing so, Ive taken into account that, while Mr P has
now provided many documents that would have been required to carry out vetting to the
required standard, he hasnt been able to provide all of them. I appreciate these are ones he
wouldnt be able to get hold of. But I dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable
outcome in this particular case for me to require Ageas to pay Vs claim when V didnt vet
guards in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy and this could have made
the loss more likely.
Mr P feels the importance of this term wasnt made clear to him when buying the policy. But
Im satisfied that the proposal form clearly asked the question of whether the guards werevetted to the specific British Standards. The form is ticked to indicate that Mr P, or someone
on his behalf, has confirmed that the requirement is complied with. So, I think the
requirements was made clear to him when buying the policy.
The premium
Ageas has provided contradictory statements about whether the policy would have provided
cover in other circumstances, given the condition precedent wasnt met. Having reviewed the
policy, I do think it would have provided cover for circumstances where the vetting wasnt
material to a particular loss  for example, when claiming for an injury to an employee.
Therefore, as Im satisfied Ageas was still covering a risk, I dont intend to require it to refund
the premium.
Ageas accepted my second provisional decision but Mr P, on Vs behalf, disagreed. He 
believed that the guard had been vetted appropriately and said it wasnt correct to say he 
hadnt been vetted in accordance with the required COP. Mr P said the guard was 
experienced and of high integrity. He didnt think my second provisional decision produced a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
In response, I let V know why I thought it was fair and reasonable for Ageas to say V hadnt 
complied with the required vetting procedures.
While we were looking into Vs complaint, V provided further information, such as character 
references and the guards work history. However, Ageas said the following was still 
outstanding:
4.3 (b) - requires details of the individuals education and employment periods
4.3(e)  requires details of all bankruptcy proceedings and Court Judgements
4.3 (f)  requires an acknowledgement regarding misrepresentation
4.3(g)  requires a statement in writing authorising the organisation to approach   
current and former employers government departments etc
        4.3(h)  requires a declaration signed by the individual which acknowledges that         
employment is subject to satisfactory screening, that the individual 
consents to being screened etc.
In addition, our investigator had asked Mr P if hed made a mistake in ticking the box on the 
Proposal form which said the guard had been vetted in accordance with the required COP. 
In response Mr P said yes this would have been a mistake as there are no options to say on 
the policy part checked to British Standard or an option to state the fact of the CCJ or School 
results that couldnt be obtained
I said to V that, on the basis of this evidence, it appeared to me that V hadnt complied with 
the required vetting standard. Rather, V had only carried out some of the checks required by 
the policy terms. 
Mr P reiterated that it wasnt possible to obtain the missing items due to the guard being 
born outside of the UK. And he didnt think the way the guard was vetted was relevant to the 
theft. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive considered the points Mr P has raised but they dont persuade me to depart from my 
second provisional decision. 
Mr P said that it wasnt possible to fulfil the vetting requirements due to the guard being born 
outside of the UK. However, Ageas has pointed to requirements that werent fulfilled that 
wouldnt be affected by this, e.g. obtaining statements regarding misrepresentation and 
agreement to screening. And as V didnt carry out all the checks required by the British 
Standards I think its fair and reasonable for Ageas to say V didnt vet the guard in 
accordance with the standard required by the policy. 
As I set out in my second provisional decision, I think not vetting the guard to the standard 
required by the policy could have made the loss more likely. I appreciate this isnt the answer 
Mr P was hoping for, but I dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome, in this 
particular case, for me to require Ageas to pay Vs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my second provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman