DRN-4040451
The complaint
Miss P would complaint about Nationwide Building Society. She says that Nationwide mis-
sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a mortgage in 2004.
What happened
Miss P made her complaint to Nationwide  but it didnt uphold her complaint. As she 
remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to this Service.
Our Adjudicator looked at the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld  Miss P 
asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint, so it has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ps case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for her, so Ill explain why.
Miss P says that she wasnt aware that she had been sold a PPI policy alongside her 
mortgage  but this doesnt surprise me as the sale took place so long ago and I wouldnt 
expect her to necessarily remember this. 
However, Nationwide has provided her PPI application from which was completed at the 
time. This shows that the PPI was an optional extra product  separate to the mortgage 
itself. On this, Miss P needed to make choices about the type of cover she wanted. Miss P 
has signed the application form agreeing to take out the cover  so I think that Nationwide 
made it clear that she didnt need to take out PPI, and that she chose to do so.
Im also aware that Nationwide wrote to Miss P just before the anniversary of her policy 
explaining that the 12 month free trial was coming to an end  Miss P kept the policy at this 
time. But when it wrote to her again in 2006 with new terms, Nationwide say that she chose 
to cancel the cover.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy to Miss P  it wasnt a service it provided at the 
time. So, it didnt need to provide her with individual advice  but it did need to make sure 
that Miss P was given all the information she needed to decide if the policy was right for her.
Its possibly that some of the information Nationwide provided wasnt as clear as it could 
have been  but looking at Miss Ps circumstances at the time, it doesnt appear that she 
would have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  and it seems 
that the policy could have been useful for her if she ever had to make a claim taking into 
account the cover and savings she already had in place. So, I dont think better information 
wouldve stopped her taking out the policy.
I understand that Miss P had savings  and that she was also willing to take in a lodger if 
extra income was to be needed. But having the PPI couldve prevented her needing to use 
her savings, which could then be used for other expenses  and while Miss P had the option 
to take in a lodger should she wish to, ultimately the repayments were her responsibility. 
Ive taken into account all of Miss Ps comments, including what she has said about not 
taking out PPI when she initially applied for her mortgage, and that she didnt receive the 
policy document at the time she took out PPI.
I dont know why Miss P didnt take out PPI when she initially took out her mortgage  it may 
be that it wasnt offered to her, or that she declined it  but I am only looking at the sale that 
took place in 2004. And while it is possible that Miss P didnt receive a policy document at 
the time, the documents from Nationwide say that a policy document would be provided on 
request. Its possible that she doesnt remember receiving this  or that it was never 
requested  but this alone is not a reason to uphold her complaint.
Other considerations 
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v 
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes need 
to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements 
taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the information Ive 
seen, these dates dont apply to Miss Ps mortgage. So, Nationwide doesnt have to refund 
any of the commission she paid on the PPI policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman