DRN-4277813
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt act within a 
reasonable timeframe or in a reasonable manner when she was trying to recover money that 
had been sent to a third party in error. She also complains that Virgin Money didnt respond 
fully to the issues she raised.
What happened
In September 2022, Mrs B intended to make an online payment from her account to her 
credit card account. However, she mistakenly made the payment to an individual in her 
payment history. Mrs B contacted Virgin Money immediately and says she was on hold for 
two hours then transferred to another department and needed to give her details again. As 
she wasnt confident following the call Mrs B says she visited a Virgin Money branch the 
following morning and completed a payment recovery form. Mrs B says she had to contact 
Virgin Money several times to try to get an update and that she was told on two occasions 
that the money would be returned but this didnt happen. Instead Mrs B received a refund of 
£8.61.
Mrs B says the transaction was pending for three days and she believes that had Virgin 
Money taken action sooner her money could have been recovered.
Virgin Money issued a final response letter in January 2022. It didnt uphold Mrs Bs 
complaint in regard to the actions taken to recover her money, but it did accept that the 
service provided wasnt as it should have been and it awarded Mrs B £125 compensation. 
Mrs B raised further issues and Virgin Money sent another final response letter in April 2023. 
This explained that the payment recovery form was sent on 16 September and the recovery 
raised with the external bank. It said there were delays in getting a response and it had to 
chase. Virgin Money accepted that it could have kept Mrs B updated on this. It said the 
service Mrs B had received from its branch wasnt as it should have been and also that her 
letters hadnt been responded to. Because of this it offered her a further £100 compensation 
as well as postage costs.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with Virgin Moneys response and referred her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that Virgin Money had done 
anything wrong in its attempts to recover Mrs Bs money. He did note the service issues that 
had been raised but thought the compensation provided for these was reasonable.
Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators view. She said when she realised her mistake, she 
called the number on the back of her current account card and it wasnt until one and a half 
hours later when the call was answered she was told it was the wrong number. She felt she 
had done everything she could to try to resolve the issue including contacting the bank 
where the money had been sent with the beneficiarys details. Mrs B explained that she was 
told the recovery form was sent on 17 September which she disputed as it was a weekend 
and then it was said that it was sent on 20 September and while she noted the comment 
about a bank holiday she said the 19 September wasnt a bank holiday locally. Mrs B said 
she hadnt wanted to take legal proceedings to recover the money as she had thought Virgin 
Money would assist her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs complaint is both about how Virgin Money responded to her request to recover 
money after she had mistakenly sent it to an incorrect third party and the wider service she 
has received while trying to resolve this issue.
I can understand how upsetting and frustrating this issue has been for Mrs B and I note that 
Virgin Money wasnt able to recover all the money she paid by mistake. But when assessing 
this complaint, I have to take into account that the initial mistake wasnt made by Virgin 
Money and that its role following that was to act to assist in the recovery of the money but 
that there was no guarantee that Mrs Bs money would be recovered.
Given this I have assessed the actions Virgin Money took and whether I think these were 
reasonable. Mrs B contacted Virgin Money on 15 September 2022 about the mistake she 
had made making an online payment. She visited a Virgin Money branch the following day 
and completed a payment recovery form. Virgin Money has said this was passed to the 
correct department on that day (a Friday) and the recall request was sent on the following 
Tuesday (20 September). The form was sent to the bank which had received the money and 
Virgin Money was told this would be investigated and a response given by 11 October. As no 
response had been received Virgin Money chased this on 12 October. The third-party bank 
responded on 16 October saying that it was still investigating. A further reminder was sent 
on 7 November and the outcome sent by the third-party bank on 11 November. 
Having considered the above timeline of events, I think that Virgin Money did do what was 
required to try to recover Mrs Bs funds. It processed the form and contacted the beneficiary 
bank and then chased for a response. I appreciate that the money wasnt recovered (aside 
for £8.61) due to there being insufficient funds in the account but the recovery process 
doesnt offer a guarantee. 
When the money wasnt able to be recovered, Mrs B requested details of the recipient in 
order to pursue legal proceedings. These were provided in a timely way. While Mrs B may 
not have wished to undertake legal action to recover her funds, she does now have the 
information to do this if she wishes.
Additional to the underlying issue of how the incorrect transfer was handled, Mrs B has 
complained about the service she has received while trying to resolve the issue. This 
includes having long wait times on calls, being told incorrect information about her money 
being returned, not receiving updates or being kept informed of what was happening with her 
case and complaint. 
I agree that Mrs B hasnt received the service she should have. She was kept waiting for an 
extended time when she first needed to explain the mistake. Given the amount of money 
involved I can understand that would have been very stressful. She wasnt then kept 
informed after completing the recovery of funds form and visited the branch to try to get 
updates. Mrs B says she was told her money would be refunded when this wasnt correct 
and was then told that the branch couldnt help her and was given a central contact number. 
I appreciate these issues will have been very upsetting for Mrs B and I am very sorry to hear 
that she also experienced a family bereavement during this period. But, having considered the service issues raised I think the compensation that Virgin Money offered both in its 
January 2023 final response (£125) and its April final response letter (£100 plus costs of 
postage), along with the information explaining what had happened and that feedback had 
been provided, is a reasonable resolution to the issues raised.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to take 
any further action in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman